Good day and welcome to the Aircastle Limited Q4 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our Web site at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I'd like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our Web site.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And will now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to everyone joining us today.
During this call we’ll discuss Aircastle's performance during the fourth quarter and the full year of 2014 our perspectives on the business environment and our implications for our company and our plans for 2015 and beyond.
After that Mike will summarize Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
We closed a successful 2014 with a surge of very positive activity during the fourth quarter.
Throughout the year we seized on favorable market conditions as we focused on three areas.
Number one growing and upgrading our portfolio through acquisitions and sales; two executing on our best-in-class assets and risk management strategy and three enhancing our financial flexibility and credit profile.
Our financial results improved in 2014 as we executed on our strategic plan.
We continue to improve and evolve Aircastle’s position as the leading value investor in the aircraft leasing space.
Being a value investor means we look across a broad range of available opportunities and carefully glean the best investments using our expertise.
We see a great deal of available opportunities from our differentiated strategy.
We’re committed to the proposition that being a value investor offers better returns as it entails higher barriers to entry than the approach taken by many of the other large aircraft leasing companies.
It capitalizes on our strengths and is a key thing that sets us apart from our competitors.
We’re well positioned to build on the achievements in the past year.
We have an exceptional team whose expertise provides us with unique points of view and a skill set to pursue investments across our sector.
Our flexible capital structure allows us to act decisively on market opportunities as they present themselves.
We have great long-term minded shareholding partners in Marubeni and Ontario Teachers.
I’m pleased to announce that we amended our shareholders agreement with Marubeni which allowed them to increase their investment in Aircastle for the maximum agreed 27.5% a little earlier than an exchange for a longer standstill period.
We view this as a vote of confidence in our company’s direction and we’re also very excited about the progress we’re making with Teachers on our aircraft leasing joint venture.
Our results in 2014 were strong.
Total revenues increased 16% to more than $818 million.
GAAP net income grew to $101 million or $1.25 per share.
Adjusted net income was nearly $160 million or more than $2 per share and cash ROE was 11.7%.
We plan to build on these good results and improve on them in 2015.
We also remain dedicated to allocating capital to achieve the best balance between value-enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Our shareholders have benefited in the growth of the company’s sustainable earnings through progressively higher dividends.
To this end our Board declared a $0.22 per share dividend payable during the first quarter of 2015.
This marks our 35th consecutive quarterly dividend declaration.
During the third quarter of last year our Board also authorized a $100 million share repurchase program.
We’ll use this authorization opportunistically.
During 2014 we acquired 35 aircraft for $1.8 billion including 21 aircraft for approximately $750 million during the fourth quarter as we grew and we upgraded our portfolio.
Nearly three-quarters of our investments were in aircraft that are less than five years old.
We also found good value into each aircraft including an important 12 aircraft purchase and leaseback deal with Spanish flag-carrier Iberia.
We demonstrated our ability to capitalize on large opportunistic investment opportunities with our strong capital position and our staff’s expertise.
Examples include our $0.5 billion transaction with LATAM for 777s a large recent deal with Avianca for several new A320s and an A330 and the Iberia purchase and leasebacks.
During 2014 we also sold 49 aircraft for net proceeds of more than $800 million.
These sales provided a positive $40 million pre-tax impact.
We sold three of these aircraft to our joint venture with Ontario Teachers bringing total assets there to $545 million at year end.
We used this JV to pursue larger transactions and for exposure management and we’re very pleased with the success we’ve had working together.
The other 46 aircraft we sold had an average age of 19 years.
We’ve upgraded our portfolio quality significantly through these sales efforts.
More specifically we reduced the size of our freighter exposure by more than half over the past three years and nearly completed our exit from classic generation aircraft.
We’re executing on our best-in-class asset and risk management program.
In 2014 we had 99.6% utilization for the full year while maintaining strong revenue yields.
We reduced our Russia passenger airline exposure to three passenger from 10 at the beginning of 2014’s Q4 by early terminating seven aircraft leases during the fourth quarter.
We sold or replaced two of these aircraft and are actively remarketing the other five.
We expect to have all these aircraft back out on lease by the end of the second quarter.
We also made significant progress taking care of our lease roll-off for 2015 as well as 2016.
Including the Russian aircraft we currently only have six aircraft remaining to place in 2015.
They’re all 737-800s that’s after taking into account five older aircraft which we expect to sell at lease end.
Our 2015 roll-off represents just 2.1% of our total fleet NBV.
I’m also pleased to tell you that we currently have no accounts receivable that are more than 30 days past due.
One of the areas in which we’ve made great strides to the past years has been in improving our financial flexibility and credit profile.
We’ve lowered our interest expense extended debt maturities and increased liquidity with a larger unsecured revolving credit facility.
Since the beginning of 2014 we’ve raised approximately $1.6 billion of capital including $1 billion of unsecured notes.
Also now we own more than $3.3 billion in unencumbered aircraft or approximately 59% of our fleet by value.
We reduced our weighted average interest costs from 5.37% to 4.69% during the year.
Our growth portfolio quality improvements and consistently strong credit metrics along with an enhanced capital structure puts us on a path towards investment grade credit ratings.
Getting these investment grades should also allow us to reduce our borrowing costs while maintaining good and well-priced access to capital throughout the business cycle.
As we look at the business environment we have a generally positive outlook.
At the same time the financial and commodity markets have seen some important shifts and we’re keeping a close eye on several hot spots around the world.
On the plus side passenger air traffic grew 5.9% in 2014.
Looking forward sluggish economic activity in Europe and unrest in certain parts of the world could pose a challenge to the airline industry’s ability to continue growing at this rate.
To minimize our exposure to such potential slowdowns we’re taking advantage of strong global demand by driving lease placements towards better customers and safer jurisdictions.
Passenger aircraft rentals have been at good levels benefiting from traffic growth very high load factors and limited aircraft availability.
We’ve tapped into this strength by securing new lease placements and extensions as far out as we reasonably can.
Recently we’ve seen a little softness in certain models but we believe this is temporary partly due to several restructuring situations around the world including several airlines in Russia SpiceJet in India and Skymark in Japan.
However it’s important to note by historical standards we’ve seen very few airline restructuring situations over the past few years.
Another critical positive development that should benefit airline profitability significantly is the decline in fuel costs.
The roughly 40% drop in jet fuel prices since June is noteworthy and is positive for airlines and the International Air Transport Association expects global airline profitability to hit a record $25 billion in 2015.
Lower fuel prices should increase the relative value of mid-age aircraft and lengthen their useful economic lives affirming a key proposition of our value investor strategy.
To this end late last year we signed five-year lease extensions on several 15-year-old A320s with Iberia.
We also placed five mid-age 737-700s on long-term leases with Southwest Airlines both very strong customers.
On the cautionary side we note the U.S.
dollar has strengthened significantly.
Since aircraft trading and leasing takes place in dollars the stronger dollar means rents may look more expensive to an airline generating revenues in a currency that’s weakened.
For some airlines this will offset the benefits of cheaper fuel.
On the other hand the stronger dollar makes purchase and leaseback deals more attractive to airlines with weaker local currencies and we intend to pursue such opportunities.
We saw an uptick in air cargo demand in 2014 but there remains a supply glut.
Both factors remain low and there’s still a lot of underutilized in parked aircraft available compounded by growth in passenger aircraft belly space.
This sector continues to be essential.
We’re not optimistic about a near-term recovery in the dry leasing market.
As a consequence our strategy is to continue peering [ph] down our exposure to this sector as we’ve done successfully over the past years.
As we think about the current business environment it’s important to bear in mind the broader historical context that has seen our industry grow consistently in the multiple of 1.5x to 2x global GDP.
We’ll continue to see ebbs and flows of capital into our sector and from time to time market conditions will become more volatile.
We are decisively growth minded built to grow and to sustain growth but our core operating principal is to remain consistently disciplined investors we take a longer view about being fully prepared to exploit prudent opportunities if they present themselves.
We celebrated our 10th anniversary last year and have already started to build on a terrific 2014.
Over the past 10 years Aircastle has developed a reputation for being an extremely reliable and nimble counterparty to airlines and financial counterparties around the world.
We’re the leading value investor in our space and have differentiated ourselves by adapting and evolving our investment efforts as market conditions and value propositions have changed.
We also remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive custom-tailored and value-added consistent with our business model.
We project that the introduction of new aircraft models across every size category over the next several years will provide us with sustainable financing and re-fleeting opportunities.
These play well to our strengths as prudent acquirers of both new and used aircraft.
We’re disciplined investors and we’ll continue to target levered cash returns of at least 15%.
As we look at the market today we feel comfortable projecting at least $1 billion in new investments this year and we’re well on our way there.
We have more than $400 million in closed or committed investments that we expect to close by the first half’s end.
With a long-dated debt maturity structure and no new order commitments we have the dry powder to pursue additional opportunities.
We’ll also continue to look for good investment realization opportunities.
We continue to see new capital coming into this sector and is attracted by the still good yields and strong historical performance.
This interest has driven aircraft prices up allowing us to capitalize by divesting older aircraft with less favorable future earnings power.
Prudent well-timed aircraft divestiture and acquisition are an integral component of our risk exposure management strategy.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and earnings while capitalizing on our position as the industry’s leading value investor.
We’re on a solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We’ll continue to target generating stable cash flow allocating capital efficiently between investments and returning capital to shareholders.
I’ll now hand it over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
We had a very successful and active 2014.
In addition to discussing the financial results I’d like to put them in context of our strategy and what we’re seeking to accomplish going forward.
We’re very pleased with the growth and upgraded portfolio quality which we’re able to achieve this past year.
Our ability to source 1.8 billion in accretive new business on high quality assets in many cases reflects our competitive strengths and our flexible value-oriented approach.
In addition to our acquisition activity we took advantage of strong market conditions to improve the company’s long-term earnings profile by recording our biggest sales year ever with more than 830 million in asset dispositions sold down quite a few older aircraft profitability locking in long-term lease extensions and securing attractively priced longer dated debt.
In this regard our fourth quarter was particularly active.
Turning to our results for the quarter lease rental and finance lease revenues were 179.8 million up 4% or 6.4 million year-over-year due to the net impact of aircraft investments in sales.
Total revenues for the quarter were 238.3 million up 46.3 million or 24% from the prior year driven by higher lease rental and finance revenue of 6.4 million and higher maintenance revenue of 27.6 million.
The increase in maintenance revenue was driven primarily by the early termination of narrow-body leases with airlines in Russia and the restructuring of a couple leases with the UK-based airline.
We also had lower amortization of net lease discounts and incentives due primarily to lease incentive reversals associated which added 7.9 million to revenue.
Lastly early lease termination fees of 4 million were primarily associated with three airlines two of which from the Russian lease terminations I discussed.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was 233.2 million versus 196 million prior year.
Higher maintenance revenues of 27.6 million and lease rental and finance increases of 6.4 million and the higher termination fees of 4 million were the primary drivers.
During the fourth quarter we recorded non-cash impairment charges of 27 million associated with five older aircraft.
More than offsetting these non-cash charges was the maintenance and other revenues of $27.9 million.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was 80.1 million up 25.2 million year-over-year and reflects higher total revenues of 46.3 million lower adjusted interest expense of 4.7 million and higher JV earnings contribution of a little over 1 million.
Partially offsetting these improvements were higher non-cash transactional impairment charges of 22 million lower gains from sale of aircraft of 1.9 million and higher depreciation expense of 1.7.
Interest expense for the quarter was 56.8 million a decrease of 3.3 million over the prior year due primarily to lower weighted average interest cost of 4.69% at year end compared to 5.37% a year ago partially driven by the refinancing of our highest cost debt last spring.
This was partially offset by approximately 300 million of higher weighted average debt outstanding year-over-year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 14 million flat versus the prior year.
Depreciation was 1.7 million increase to 70.1 million for the quarter reflecting the growth in the net book value of the aircraft portfolio on a year-over-year basis.
Our fourth quarter tax revision of 2.9 million reflects an effective tax rate for the full year of 12.4%.
At the end of the year we owned 148 aircraft with a net book value of 5.6 billion including 95 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of 3.3 billion.
The net book value of our flight equipment has grown at approximately 9% CAGR since 2010 while the unencumbered fleet has grown by nearly 6x over that time period.
For the fourth quarter our portfolio of lease rental yield was 13.3% and our net cash interest margin was around 10% demonstrating the consistent strength to the business and as Ron mentioned our 2014 cash ROE came in at approximately 11.7%.
At the end of the year we had 170 million of unrestricted cash and we currently have $600 million unsecured revolving credit capability.
We increased our revolver by $150 million in late January.
Also during January we issued 500 million of 5.5% senior notes maturing in 2022.
Our total borrowings at year end were 3.8 billion including 2.4 billion of unsecured debt.
Weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.69 down from 5.37 at the end of 2013.
And the weighted average debt maturity at year end was approximately 4.2 years.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.1x and we’re in compliance with all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value-enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
On February 17 our Board approved $0.22 per share common dividend payable in mid-March this March of 10% increase over the level of one year ago and is our 35th consecutive dividend.
We’ve now paid out more than $535 million in dividends since going public in 2006.
In addition over the past several years we’ve repurchased approximately $140 million of our share at an average cost of 11.87 and we still have $100 million existing share repurchase authorization in place.
Turning to the Q1 guidance elements we’ve included certain elements for the first quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and fourth quarter earnings presentation that was posted to the Web site earlier this morning.
This guidance reflect important actions we’ve referenced in Q4 with respect to extending leases and strengthening and derisking the portfolio.
We proactively managed our exposure to Russia taking out seven passenger aircraft during the quarter and we expect all these aircraft to be back on lease by the end of the second quarter of this year.
We also executed a number of lease extensions and transitions in late Q4 and early Q1 '15 for several mid-age passenger aircraft and one of our freighters.
In short we were able to obtain significant lease extensions on a number of aircraft that had relatively short remaining lease terms as well as the transition of one of our 747 freighters.
In aggregate these aircraft represented about 10% of the net book value of our fleet.
For the balance of 2015 we have only a handful of aircraft which account for around 2% of net book value left to deal with.
To summarize we ended the fourth quarter on a strong note with solid momentum entering 2015.
The business is performing well.
We will continue to focus on increasing earnings and operating cash flow as we successfully execute our value-oriented investment strategy while managing the portfolio and improving the quality of our fleet.
With that operator we’re happy to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll take our first question from Gary Liebowitz from Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator and good morning gentlemen.
Hi Gary.
Good morning Gary.
Ron can you tell us when you took back those planes from Russia when you started remarketing them and how you characterize the demand for those aircraft? Well we took back seven aircraft in total.
One of them was the 757 that we sold during the fourth quarter another was a 737 that we placed on long-term lease with Southwest.
The others are all 737-800s.
We took them over just as the year ended.
And I would say demand for mid-age 737-800s is really good.
Okay.
And they’ll be back in revenue generating service by the third quarter? We said by the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
Also I know Ron you don’t have any direct exposure to SpiceJet but as you look at what’s happening in the Indian market does it change your thinking on whether you want to do business there in the future? We’ve been wary of the Indian market for a number of years and it’s not just the latest issues with SpiceJet which are a very big concern to the whole industry at least it should be.
The episode with Kingfisher was problematic to put it nicely and we’ve always had a very careful approach to that market.
The sad part about it is there’s great economic potential there it’s just that the legal and regulatory framework has to get in line.
Okay.
And just last one.
Can you give us a little bit more detail on the Iberian portfolio you bought? Were they all A320s and how old are these planes? They were all A320 family aircraft and they were roughly 10 years old.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hello.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Richa.
Hi.
So first I just had a question on the December quarter a quick one.
I noticed that your lease rental revenue came in ahead of your guidance.
I believe it was $3 million higher than the top end of the range.
What drove that? Fundamentally it was driven by timing of asset sales during the quarter versus our original expectations for when things would move.
I would say that was the primary driver for that effect.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the Moody's upgrade of your senior unsecured rating and their upgraded outlook on Aircastle looks positive.
I’m wondering based on your discussions with them what they may need to see now to take your rating up further? And then if you’re having conversations with other rating agencies if you could just update us on their feedback? Well let me comment about the rating agencies generally because they each kind of look at the world in a different way.
I think the most important things that we can do and we can control that will get us on the path to investment grade will be one is to get a little bit bigger and we’ve done that.
And I think the outlook in that respect has been very positive.
And the other is to improve our credit quality and portfolio quality and we’ve made great strides in both of those measures as well.
I don’t think there is a clear bright line.
Unfortunately it’s not so prescriptive but we run the business for ourselves and hopefully they’ll come around to our way of thinking that we’re an investment grade company.
All right thanks.
And then if I could just squeeze in one more.
On the competitive environment we’ve been hearing for some time now that competition in the leasing space is heating up in Asia.
So can you remind us on what differentiates Aircastle versus some of the players forming out East? And on a somewhat related note I recall reading something about attractive tax packages and free zones being offered to leasing companies in China.
Can you tell us what you know about that and if you can participate would that incentivize you to think of putting up a base out there? I don’t think I’d say that the competition out of Asia is a new phenomenon.
I think it’s been extremely competitive for the last two or three years now and it’s been driven in large measure by the rise of the Chinese bank leasing companies.
They’re not the only players but they’ve been probably the most impactful ones.
Those players tend to have played in two ways.
One is by absolutely dominating their home market opportunities.
So I don’t think a Western leasing company has won Chinese sale-leaseback business in quite a while.
And the other part of it is in buying portfolios generally new narrow-body portfolios from other leasing companies.
And so that’s actually reduced our opportunity set over the last several years in terms of buying from the larger players.
That’s been part of our business but we’ve more than made up for it with airline sale-leasebacks.
What remains to be seen here is the success in which these companies have in terms of penetrating airline direct deals and how much appetite they have in fact going forward for continuing to buy from other people’s portfolios.
I actually think there’s some upside for our business in that respect as there’s a potential for them to slow down.
I think the bigger increase Richa in terms of competition has been in the mid-age market where there’s been a lot of new capital.
They’re all attracted by high yields and by I think a broadening understanding of the potential in that space.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Arren Cyganovich with Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
The returned aircraft that you hadn’t incur the early returns is there any way that you break out the specifics around what the impacts on the income statement were relative to those returns? And are there any other kind of – I know this is normal course of business but one-time items it sounds like you had a lot of activity at the end of the quarter the beginning of the quarter that you said there was amending existing leases and adjusting your portfolio.
Just trying to get at your core run rate which looked pretty steady but it’s a little bit confusing with all the moving parts? Sure.
So Arren I think simplistically if you look at the stuff that came out of Russia we generated around $30 million of maintenance revenue and lease incentive reversals as an effect of those transitions out of that marketplace.
In the context of the overall portfolio lease extensions and management as I said in effect we repriced 10% of our net book value late in the fourth quarter and early in the first quarter.
And that effect will roll forward.
It’s a natural effect of the business.
Some of the leases – most of the leases in fact that we were repricing were put in place in 2007 timeframe.
And so over the course of seven or eight years you would expect those to be priced down and in fact I’d say we did better in those extensions from a pricing perspective than we would normally expect as we talked about in the past of roughly 5% a year sort of reduction in lease rates as you march in time across the aircraft leasing.
Let me just add a couple of things to that.
One is we’re very pleased about the extensions and in fact the quirk here is that when you have a lease extension you have to average down to rentals.
And the good part of it is that you don’t have the redeployment cost and the downtime.
And I think we are pretty happy about the overall terms that we were able to achieve on these extensions.
Many of them were with customers that I think are probably a better quality than we would have expected otherwise.
So I would view this Arren as a bit of an accounting quirk that has a shorter term impact.
In the long term it’s a very positive thing.
And I think it also reflects well in terms of the impact of lower fuel prices on airline appetite for mid-age aircraft.
Is that the impetus for reaching out to these customers and seeking extensions now essentially just because oil cost are so low and it helps the value of these aircraft today? Yes I would say it’s a mutual discussion here.
It wasn’t just us pushing.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then also the remaining exposure you have in Russia is now 6.2% you said three passengers and three cargo.
Can you just give a little bit more color around the strength of those exposures do you have there right now? Yes so in percentage terms that 6% breaks out to be 5% cargo and 1% passenger.
The leases are all performing.
I think the only amount that’s due is less than $100 000 in maintenance reimbursements that are due.
So these leases are performing well but I would say fundamentally I have a negative view about the passenger market there.
The sharp decline in the ruble the always difficult seasonality there and just the decline in the business environment there makes it very tough for passenger airlines to succeed.
In sharp contrast to that though the freighter market it’s a different story.
In the freight market revenues are generated in dollars.
In fact our one customer over there collects about 85% of their revenues in dollars and about half of their cost are in dollars.
So the decline in the ruble is actually a positive thing for them and it’s a very very different story there.
So feeling reasonably good about that situation not so good about the prospects for the passenger market and that’s why we acted.
Okay.
And then just lastly you altered your Marubeni shareholder agreement to allow them to increase their ownership but what was the driving factor behind that? I think it was a desire on their part to put more money to work sooner with us simple as that.
I think they’re pleased with the partnership as we are with theirs.
And like I said during the prepared remarks we’ve used a vote of confidence in the company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Great.
Most of my questions actually have been asked and answered but just expand on the Marubeni partnership is that a new threshold is that like some form of a legal limit or is it something that you could adjust if they were interested as well? No I think and just to be clear the change that was made was the original agreement provided for them to be able to own up to 21% for the first three years and the total standstill had a duration of 10 years.
We are allowing them to go above 21% up towards 27.5% roughly a year earlier and in exchange we’re adding a year and a half to the backend of the standstill.
Legally speaking and I’m not a lawyer the 27.5% is a place where we feel comfortable that they could make a significant contribution in the business but will preserve overall value creation over time for all the shareholders.
Okay.
And maybe if there’s – any kind of clarity you can give in terms of the impairments and how you’re thinking about the trending for that in the next couple of quarters? Well we’re not given to making forecast on such things Moshe but I would say a couple of things.
One is the biggest vulnerability not just for us but in general are for I’d say the freighter market and for the older classic technology aircraft.
And in that regard our exposure is sharply lower.
Classic generation aircraft are now less than 2% of our portfolio and the freight portfolio is down to 14% which is less than half of what it was three years ago.
And our plan as we talked about during the third quarter is to pair that by another half of what it is today roughly over the next few years as leases expire.
So the older converted freighters that are in our portfolio will probably go to the desert and we’ll call it a day there.
The other part of our portfolio which is five newer aircraft and the purpose-built freighters which are more efficient will remain on lease and we’ll probably be holding them for a longer period of time.
The other thing I’d point to you is that we have a monitoring list which is our best guess – it’s an imperfect one with our best guess on what’s vulnerable and that’s been steadily decreasing.
We’ve been systematically working those aircraft out of our portfolio as part of our sales strategy and we feel pretty good about where we stand.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Co.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Just with regard to the portfolio growth I think you mentioned the outlook right now is 1 billion.
Is that a net number or is that what you hope to acquire? And then there will be some sales that will bring that number down all else being equal? It’s a good question.
Look this is one of the hardest things in our business particularly given our strategy to predict.
I would say that’s a gross number at this point but let me point you back to this past year where we had a similar target and we had $1.8 billion and what ended up happening was we also found great opportunities to exit certain aircraft and net-net improve our portfolio quite a bit.
I would say the opportunities for selling are still there but there’s less of the older more marginal stuff to sell in the first place.
We’ve hit the ground running this year in terms of portfolio and I’m very happy in terms of the pipeline and new acquisition opportunities.
Having said that one of the mainstays of our strategy is to stay flexible and to be able to react to market opportunities.
So I wouldn’t want to make any more of a prediction in February about the year than what we have today but I feel comfortable in doing $1 billion and having the potential to far exceed that.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the aircraft maybe in the age spectrum you mentioned more capital coming to the mid-age cycle there’s a lot more interest in mid-age aircraft given where oil prices are.
Does that change your outlook in terms of what aircraft you’re targeting? Yes and no.
The fact that there’s more people in the mid-age space means the prices are going up and that will change how we think about it.
The analysis that we go through in really simple terms is when we figure out what is the opportunity cost for that capital.
Is it better to keep it or is it better – the aircraft that is or get the cash and redeploy it? And that really generally guides our principals.
Okay.
And then on the flipside in terms of sale of aircraft does that – I know you mentioned the kind of typical target aircraft you’re looking to sell is a small part of the portfolio but would you get more aggressive on sales if the prices continue to be a bit up or stay where they are? Absolutely.
Okay.
And then final question just on Russia.
It seemed like you had no problem getting the aircraft out.
Is that generally the expectation for Russia that they seem to be here into Cape Town and no problems getting aircraft back? When you get into an argument about Cape Town and the legal framework whether you’re in Russia India the U.S.
or anywhere else you hit a different level.
What we tried to do is be proactive work with our customers and had an out of port discussion with them a mutually agreed discussion.
And that’s exactly what we did with our customers in Russia and it’s what we’ve done across the world in many different instances.
Of course you have to be mindful about what happens if you don’t agree but I think it’s always good to stay in touch and be proactive with our customers.
We have good relationships.
I have a lot of respect for what our Russian customers built over the last decade but it also is pretty clear to us and clear to them ultimately that there’s too much capacity in that market.
And our view is basically better to be out first and what we were able to achieve here is to get those aircraft back in primary markets and for spring time peak demand.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Stephen Carlson with Waddell.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just a bit of a follow up on the previous question.
Your dispositions vary a lot over time but is there like a normalized number that we should think of in a typical year how much dispositions would be? Boy I think that’s probably the most variable part of our business.
Typically we have placeholder to say quarter-billion dollars but that really is nothing more than the placeholder.
We had the best year ever in terms of sales for us last year and we sold nearly 50 airplanes.
I would have not imagined that a year ago.
I wouldn’t project that level this year or even close to that.
There’s less to do but having said that as I’ve answered before if the opportunities present themselves we’ll keep an open mind to it.
Okay.
And then just a housekeeping item.
Do you have the cash interest and cash tax number? It wasn’t in the release.
I don’t have that in front of me Steve.
It will be in the 10-K that we file later today.
Okay all right.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Andrew Light with Citigroup.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good afternoon.
No I’m on your side of the pond actually -- You are okay.
Hope it’s some place warm.
Yes it is very little bit.
On the impairment charges the 27 million was that all to do with the seven returned aircraft from Russia or is there more to it than that? It was Russia and lease restructuring we did with the UK customer as well.
Okay great.
I think just to clarify on that Andrew the 737-800s that we had coming back to us were not impaired there were other aircraft including some -- Right okay.
And in your guidance you didn’t guide on maintenance costs but is there any risks or is there any expectation that could be additional kind of maintenance and other costs associated with the placement of the five aircraft that remain in terms of --? Yes I think that the way we’re thinking about the placement of those 573s which generated as I said about 30 million of maintenance revenue is over the course of the next five years of leasing those planes I’m going to be reinvesting that amount in those aircraft.
And in round numbers I would guess that about half of that will be in flight equipment improvements mostly engine work over the course of the first half and leading into the third quarter of this year and the balance would be paid out over the duration of what we expect to be five-plus-year leases with the new customers.
But in terms of maintenance expenses or expense to current period things that are not capitalizable I would say it’s very very small.
We’ve got letter of intent for three to five aircraft and they involve a minimal reconfiguration costs.
Right okay.
And then on Russia do you see any temporary damage to lease rates aircraft values and do you see any opportunities with airlines like Transaero and ETF [ph] for example talking about not even taking delivery of aircraft they’ve ordered just your feel on that? It’s a question I kind of try to address a little bit in my remarks Andrew.
I don’t know that we can stratify the effect of any one particular situation in the market.
There’s a few restructurings underway.
There’s SpiceJet there’s Skymark and then you have the seasonal slowing of the market and it happens every year.
Russia undoubtedly has some impact.
I think the bigger question isn’t what happened so far but what could come later.
So far I think whatever has happened has been fairly modest and digestible and not an issue in my view.
Right okay.
But do you see any option [indiscernible] because presumably if some of these airlines are not even going to pay delivery of ordered aircraft over the next couple of years are you seeing Airbus and Boeing in a contact [indiscernible] with opportunity there? It’s happened.
It’s happening – an ongoing matter.
It’s not just the less sure [ph] phenomenon to be fair.
Boeing and Airbus both have the good situation of having very long waiting list for their aircraft.
And so to the extent that Russian airline isn’t capable of taking delivery of an airplane somebody else probably will raise their hand and that could include a leasing company.
And we’re not adverse to those kind of situations ourselves.
I think the decline in the ruble also offers an opportunity for airlines that want to sell their craft to do so.
I think the desire to sell and leaseback is probably not very high but I think there is an opportunity there.
Right.
Okay great.
Thanks very much Ron.
Sure.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Most of my questions regarding fuel costs and middle-age aircraft have been addressed but I do have a follow up on the five planes that came out of Russia.
You suggested they’d be back during the second quarter.
Does that imply that you’re absolutely not considering selling any of those? And also if you could just remind us when the aircraft where initially placed? Obviously I’m just trying to gauge how the market compares today.
I would think it would be stronger but obviously I’m not quite sure.
We’re always open to a sales proposal but we’re not counting on it in this context.
So from a modeling perspective that’s where you’re going what I would assume they’re released and I would assume – I don’t recall the particulars of which days any of those leases started but I don’t think there’s going to be a huge amount of rental degradation of one lease to the next.
Okay that’s perfect.
I appreciate it Ron.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Nathan Hong from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Ron I thought I heard you mention that there were softness in aircraft models in your prepared remarks.
I’m just wondering if you could clarify how these rates are trending across the major aircraft types? I think in general the softness has been a little bit more on one hand the commodity aircraft that usually don’t expect them to – 320s and 738s and it’s been very modest I’d say like 5%.
And I don’t know if that’s a seasonal effect or something that relates to these restructurings like I said before hard to delineate.
I don’t think that this is a permanent phenomenon though based on the current assessment we have in the world.
There has been a little bit of softness on newer wide bodies because both Boeing and Airbus are looking to fill out the ends of their lines for 330s and for 777s.
But I think in general it’s relatively good.
Great thanks.
And just one more question just going back to the $1 billion of acquisitions for 2015.
I’m wondering where you’re seeing the most opportunities? Is this from sale-leasebacks or just acquisitions in the secondary markets? That’s a very good question and it’s a question that we wring our hands on every year.
If we were to dial back a year and ask ourselves where do we see opportunities I would have said 2014 was going to be the year of the less sure portfolio purchase and I was dead wrong.
Instead it was the year of the purchase of leaseback.
And so with the imperfect lens that I just kind of alluded to I’m more optimistic about the airline purchase and leaseback deal.
I think we’ve got a little more momentum for some of the large deals that we’ve done over the last half year and I think our credibility with airlines is very very high right now.
I also think there are some interesting less sure opportunities so maybe it will be a little bit more balanced than 2014 ended up being but I’d say probably skewed towards the airline side.
Great thanks again.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Mark Streeter with JPMorgan.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just wondering Ron just on the last question not to beat the horse dead here or the dead horse whatever in trying to quantify the seasonal weakness are we talking about the difference between the monthly lease going from 250 000 to 240 000 or what sort of magnitude is this seasonal factor and what sort of magnitude is the incremental weakness that we’re seeing from the Skymark restructuring on certain narrow-body types for example? I don’t know that I’m smart enough to delineate that Mark but I think the order of magnitude that you talked about isn’t far off as an aggregate matter.
Okay good.
Well I appreciate the incremental color on that.
And then within the pipeline the $1 billion that you’re looking at you talked a little bit about where you’re sourcing that from sale-leasebacks and the like.
Can you talk a little bit about just the competition of the pipeline? You’re obviously not going to tell us exactly what types you’re buying but can you give us a flavor for is it very consistent with what you’ve purchased over the last year? Are you leaning a little bit more towards some 777s or A330s or just what sort of color on aircraft pipes in terms of where you think the best bank for your buck is going to be for 2015? I would say that the $400 million that we have committed so far is entirely narrow bodies.
That’s a little bit of a change in direction from what we did last year.
And I think it’s important to note that the hallmark of our strategy is to be flexible.
That’s what being a value investor is.
So we found that the new wide bodies have gotten to be more competitive and we’ve done less of those.
It’s all about maintaining discipline.
We found very good value with the Iberia situation in mid-age narrow bodies and we’ve found interesting sale-leaseback terms in terms of the duration lease the entry point and as I alluded to during the remarks the price opportunities can be very good particularly if you’re finding customers that maybe in a local currency that’s weakened against the dollar.
I think what’s also worth noting besides the kind of shift towards the narrow-body market is that some of the narrow bodies we bought are new.
And that’s a departure for us as well.
We’ve always looked at them.
We’ve also struggled to be competitive against people who intended to have a more optimistic view about depreciation but in the fuel environment today it was the entry points that we’re able to find and with the lease terms we found we’ve been able to make sense of those things.
I wouldn’t say that that’s the majority that will do but it is an important ingredient.
Great thanks.
One last question from me on your joint venture.
It seems like all the aircraft – your public peers at least are pursuing little twists in terms of their own unique style in how they’re pursuing the joint venture and so forth.
I’m just wondering if you have any observations on what the industry has been doing in terms of how these joint ventures are being set up or some are calling them sidecars to sell portfolios and to manage risk and so forth.
Is there an evolution forthcoming with the Aircastle in terms of how you set up joint ventures or is the status quo working for you just wondering if there’s any thoughts there? Let me delineate – let’s focus on what we do.
The purpose of the joint venture with Ontario Teachers is twofold.
One is to build a very strong relationship with a very important investor.
And that means that we’re not looking to take cash up front we’re looking to share in what we think of as an attractive investment opportunity.
And part two that goes with that is that this lets us do bigger deals that we feel comfortable doing ourselves.
We certainly make a market-based servicing fee on that business and we make what we think of is a very attractive return on our 30% of the joint venture equity.
But the goal here is actually not just to make some money on this joint venture but also to have a very good long-term relationship with what I consider a strategic partner.
Right.
Thanks for the call Ron.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
We’ll go to Michael Kass from Blue Mountain Capital.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on what you see or what you’re experiencing as kind of the lease factors on your new purchases versus the sales? You guys are really good about providing kind of disclosure on what the year-over-year impact of purchase on sales is on your lease rentals and I just want to make sure that I’m not kind of overly handicapping what should be the natural degradation in lease factor just the math regarding kind of net book value degradation? It’s a tricky question.
Let me talk about the buy side first because that’s a little bit more straightforward.
And I would say in general for the newer aircraft we see what I’ll think of as a lease rate factor of 0.9 or so per month or call it 10% 11% 12% annual number.
For older aircraft we see higher.
The sell side I would divide into two pieces.
One is the joint venture.
We sold three aircraft into the joint venture for roughly $300 million or so last year and that was lower yielding new stuff with very long lease terms with very good customers and very unlike the other 46 aircraft that we sold.
As I said we’re 19 years old.
Most of those aircraft were either at lease expiration or had very short remaining lease terms.
So on one hand I could talk to you about a lease rate factor but I’m not sure how meaningful that would be from any kind of modeling perspective because that number was due to change in a very negative way.
Okay.
I’m just trying to reconcile the first part with $38.7 million of additional lease revenue on 1.8 billion of purchases and I know that that spread across the year and it’s not necessary – it might be backend loaded but even if I assume a half year convention on that that’s much lower than the kind of 10% 11% 12%.
Am I not looking at this the right way? Yes I think you have a little bit more [indiscernible] than what’s really happening Michael and it’s going to be hard to address it on this call.
I think if once you read our 10-K that gets filed later today we’ll be happy to have a follow-up conversation with you.
But we don’t -- Okay.
So those two things aren’t comparable the 38.7 million of additional lease revenue is not the 1.8 billion of purchases.
I’m not trying to – I don’t have any view I’m just trying to make the math work.
Correct.
Okay.
There are no further questions at this time I’ll turn the call back over to Frank Constantinople for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for your time today.
We hope you found it helpful.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at (203) 504-1063.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.