Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Aircastle Limited First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Catherine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's first quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese Chief Financial Officer.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our Web site at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings Press Release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our Web site.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to everyone dialing in.
During this call we’ll discuss Aircastle's performance during the first quarter our perspective on the business environment and its impact on our Company and our plans for 2015 and beyond.
After that Mike will address Aircastle's financial results then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
We entered this year with strong momentum building on a very successful 2014.
During the first quarter we continue to make progress across three basic objectives; number one demonstrating that our strategy of approaching opportunities differently build strong financial results.
To that end we maintained a solid record of returning capital to shareholders by declaring our 36th consecutive quarterly dividend payment.
Number two taking advantage of the depth and breadth of Aircastle’s team to illustrate we achieved nearly 99% of fleet utilization including placing all the aircraft removed from Russia-based operators.
Number three continuing our progress on the road to investment grade.
In that respect we closed or committed to acquire $770 million in aircraft and expanded our purchasing power through $1.1 billion in new and enhanced debt capital.
I’ll touch more on each of these accomplishments but first the bottom-line.
Our financial results improved in Q1 as we continue to execute against our plan.
Net income grew to more than $43 million for the quarter and our cash ROE was 13.5%.
We’re seizing on the opportunities in today’s fast-changing market using our unique nimble and prudent business approach and our Company’s formidable capabilities.
Being different by design definitely has value.
We currently have line of sight to at least $1 billion in new investments for 2015.
That includes 770 million that’s already closed or committed.
It's a competitive market and we’ve managed to capture many attractive investment opportunities by developing value-added propositions for our customers while moving decisively in capitalizing on our ability to consider both new and used assets.
The strong U.S.
dollar has been a positive catalyst for most of these new deals.
While the number of aircraft sales we completed during the first quarter was relatively modest by Aircastle’s recent standards there are a lot more to come.
We’re taking advantage of strong investor interest in our sector combined with the favorable impact of low jet fuel prices on used aircraft values.
We expect 2015 to be another strong year for asset sales as we continue to profitably upgrade our portfolio.
We expect to make progress selling what’s left of our out-of-production aircraft further reducing our freighter exposure and increasing the share of current-generation narrow-body aircraft in our fleet.
In our view there is a healthy level of lease demand today and we’ve been able to take advantage of that by redeploying all of the aircraft we removed from Russia late last year.
We've also have been positioning our portfolio for the long-term by extending leases and closing new long-term placements while doing this tends to marginally reduce the rental yield in the short-term that makes our portfolio with an improved long-term earnings profile.
Together with our new acquisitions these actions have increased the average remaining lease term to 5.6 years creating steady income stream nearly a full year longer than we had a year ago.
That allows us to focus more intently on growing revenues rather than replacing it.
We took quite a few steps to enhance the quality of our asset base and its earnings power as we continue our march towards investment grade credit ratings.
We also raised $0.5 billion of unsecured long-term financing in January.
This continues the long and successful run for Aircastle in the bond market.
I'm very pleased by the strong investor base we've developed there over the past several years.
In addition we increased the size of our unsecured revolver to $600 million providing us with more buying power and increased financial flexibility.
Recognizing the Company's strong performance during the first quarter I'm pleased to tell you our Board of Directors declared a $0.22 per share dividend payable during second quarter.
Our long track-record of paying dividend highlights our commitment to sharing our financial success directly with shareholders.
Our business strategy defines this as distinct among the large aircraft lessors.
I believe we offer investors an attractive proposition for identifying and acting on opportunities which our competitors are less able to discern and make profitable.
As we articulated during our Investor Day presentation last month we believe Aircastle’s approach to the aircraft leasing business actually affords investors a possibility of a lower risk while delivering higher yields.
That can only be done with a fundamentally different model of utility stability discipline and prudence.
We have an exceptional team whose expertise and diverse perspectives provide us unique point of view and a skill set to pursue a wide range of investments across our sector.
Our capital structure is flexible and low cost and it allows us to act decisively on market opportunities.
Moreover we have a competitive advantage with two supportive and long-term minds as strategic shareholders Marubeni and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan.
Now a few words on the global business environment.
In general it looks pretty good to us and we’re keeping a close eye on several hotspots around the world.
So far this year passenger aircraft increased at a very robust rate of around 6% per annum which is roughly twice the level of global GDP growth.
Supply is increasing at a pace almost matching demand keeping load factors high.
This is all positive for aircraft leasing.
I’d add that much of the traffic growth is taking place in the Asia Pacific region where we are successfully placing an increasing portion of our fleet.
The International Air Transport Association or IATA forecasts the worldwide growth rate will continue for the balance of the year as airlines enjoy the benefits of low fuel costs.
Indeed IATA also forecasts the world airlines industry will earn record profit this year.
While the strong U.S.
dollar is stimulating aircraft sales activity it also constitutes a financial headwind for airlines who’ve seen their local currency drop in value.
Most airlines earn a majority of the revenues in their local currency while at the same time having significant dollar denominated costs for aircraft and fuel.
As a result airlines doing business in weak currency environments are less likely to enjoy the full benefit of cheaper fuel.
Of course this effect varies significantly around the world.
As we think about new lease placements and investments we’re factoring in these effects and focusing our attention on customers who have stronger credit profile.
Passenger aircraft rentals are benefitting from stronger traffic growth high load factors and limited aircraft availability.
Indeed pricing appears to have firmed up recently after some concerns about Russian capacity entering the market in addition to potential supply from a few restructuring situations.
For now it appears the Russian market has stabilized as the weather warms up and the airline industry there heads into their busy season.
However we do remain concerned about how this satiation will play out later in the year and beyond and we’ll be keeping a close watch.
In the matter of aircraft prices these are experiencing upward pressure as more investors seek out opportunities in our space while benefiting from relatively low interest rates and very favorable financing conditions.
This is both good and bad news for our Company and for our peers.
For Aircastle it underscores the importance of focusing on buying situations that involve higher barriers to entry rather than trying to content with elevated levels of conventional competition.
Looking ahead we’re well on our way to $1 billion in acquisitions for the year and certainly have the resources to invest much more should we find the right situations.
We’re disciplined investors who choose where and when to play and we’re continuing to target at least 15% leveraged cash returns.
We’ve differentiated ourselves by adapting and evolving our investment efforts as market conditions and value propositions change.
We remain committed to discovering and acting on situations that are less competitive more custom tailored and value additive all consistent with our fundamentally differentiated business model.
We’ll also continue to look for good investment realization opportunities.
Prudent well-timed aircraft sales are another integral component of our asset management strategy.
In this regard we feel very comfortable by achieving our initial 2015 asset sales target of $250 million.
As long as strong market interest drives up and keeps the aircraft prices high we’ll seek to capitalize by selling aircraft we consider to have less favorable earnings power.
We like where we’ve positioned the Company and our portfolio.
We’re one the solid path towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We remain focused on increasing cash returns and earnings accretion while capitalizing on our position as the industry’s leading value investor.
Finally we’ll continue to focus on generating stable cash flows and allocating capital efficiently including paying dividends to shareholders.
I’ll now hand the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron.
Our results during the first quarter of 2015 were strong and relatively straight forward.
Total revenues increased 10% to 194.3 million.
Through proactive asset management we were able to achieve much higher profitability with just the net income per share of $0.62 and cash ROE of 13.5%.
Thanks to significant placement and lease extension activity over the past several months we’re basically done with our lease placement needs for this year with only five older aircraft left most of which we expect to sell at the end of their current lease expirations.
We’ve also made great progress in addressing the aircraft that come off lease in 2016.
Moreover our portfolio is performing very well with nearly 99% utilization and very low customer receivables.
During the first quarter we acquired or committed to acquire 25 aircraft of which 24 are current technology narrow-body with a balanced mix of new and used aircraft.
We’re finding success in executing large purchase and leaseback deals with airlines around the world particularly in jurisdictions where the local currency is weakening versus the dollar.
These include customers based in Europe Southeast Asia and South America.
We’re pleased with the capital and market success we’ve had during the first quarter and we’ll continue to monitor the market for new opportunities to improve our capital structure and diversify our funding base.
Over the past year we’ve continued to rebalance our fleet mix and upgrade our overall portfolio quality from an asset and credit perspective while lease rental revenue and finance lease revenue for the quarter of 178.8 million were essentially flat versus prior year.
We’re now generating similar fleet yields for higher grade portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter of 194.3 were up 17.7 million or 10% from the previous year driven by higher maintenance revenues of $15 million.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was 190.2 million versus 170 million for the prior year higher maintenance revenue of 15 million and higher gains from sales of flight equipment of around 5 million were the primary divers behind the improvement.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was 50.5 million up 37.2 million year-over-year and primarily reflects the higher total revenues of 17.7 million and lower aircraft impairment charges of 18.3 million compared to the prior year.
Interest expense for the quarter was 62.1 million a decrease of 2.1 million over the prior year due primarily to an overall lower weighted average cost of interest for the quarter partially offset by higher weighted average debt balance of approximately 200 million versus the prior year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was 13.9 million flat versus the prior year as we continue to manage operating expenses carefully.
Depreciation was up about $1 million to 74.8 million for the quarter due to the net impact of acquisitions and dispositions.
The net book value of our aircraft portfolio rose to 5.8 billion at the end of Q1 versus 5.7 billion a year ago.
Current environment continues to present opportunities to reshape our fleet and accordingly in the first quarter we completed the sale of two narrow-body aircraft on lease to an airline in India as well as other assets for $50 million in sales proceeds and recorded a gain on sale of approximately $6 million during the quarter.
Our first quarter tax provision was 4.9 million reflecting an effective tax rate of about 10.5%.
Currently we expect our full year effective tax rate to be in the 11% or 12% range.
At the end of the first quarter we owned 152 aircraft the net book value of 5.8 billion including 99 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $3.5 billion.
I’d also note we co-own and manage approximately $0.5 billion worth of aircraft through our joint ventures with the Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan.
The net book value of our flight equipment has grown at approximately 9% CAGR since 2010 while our unencumbered fleet has increased at a compound rate of about 52% over the same time demonstrating the strength in new credit profile of the company.
Our cash ROE on an LTM basis was very strong for the quarter and came in at 13.5%.
For the first quarter our portfolio lease rental yield was 12.6% annualized commensurate with the overall improvement in portfolio quality as expected we’ve seen a modest decline in revenue yield versus historical averages which reflects the reduction in the weighted average age of our fleet to 8.3 years and an increase in our weighted average remaining lease term to 5.6 years.
Our net cash interest margin came in at around 9% generally consistent with our historical averages and we expect this level to continue to be the case over the next several years.
At the end of Q1 we had 330 million of unrestricted cash 87 million of restricted cash and 600 million of unused revolver capacity.
We increased our revolver capacity by $150 million earlier in the first quarter as we discussed on our year-end call we also issued $500 million of 5.5% notes maturing in 2022.
Our total borrowings at quarter-end were 4 billion including 2.7 billion of unsecured debt weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.94% at the end of the first quarter versus 5.17% at the end of the first quarter of 2014 and the weighted average debt maturity was approximately 4.4 years as of the end of the quarter.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.1 times and we’re in compliance of all applicable covenants in all of our debt facilities.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Towards that end our Board approved a $0.22 per share common dividend payable on June 15th.
We’ve now paid out $553 million in dividends since going public in August of 2006 and have increased our dividend on five separate occasions since 2011.
As you usual it includes certain guidance elements for the second quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and our PowerPoint that was posted to our Web site this morning.
So to summarize we've ended the first quarter with strong momentum following our solid performance last year.
Business continues to perform well and we remain steadfast in our long-term focus on increasing earnings per share ROE and operating cash flow and to successfully execute on the disciplined growth strategy proactively manage the portfolio and we expect to continue to deliver strong total shareholder returns.
And with that operator we are happy to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll go first to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Ron I noticed that nearly all of your planned CapEx for this year is in the narrow-body market is this the result of a perhaps a change in the risk assessment of the various aircraft types or is this just getting back to sort of a normal balance between wide and narrow-bodies? I think the most important driver of this deal mix is when we saw a good risk return opportunities as I mentioned in previous calls we've seen competition go up over the past three-four quarters for wide-bodies and we found a few very attractive situations in the narrow-body side and we've been a little more disciplined on the wide-body side and having kind of tried to reach too far out.
I think the fact that fuel prices are where they are has led to a lot of people reconsidering how long they want to keep their current technology aircraft maybe leaning towards keeping them a little bit longer and that's a factor the other factor that's driving a lot of our business as I mentioned is the impact of a strong dollar and it just so happens that the opportunities we found involve narrow-bodies we are mindful of the portfolio mix but I think it's just basically where the risk adjusted return was showing up.
And maybe for Mike Mike the revenue number in the quarter came in right at the low-end of the guidance usually it is up towards the high-end are there timing issues in that or maybe just with some of [indiscernible] were? Yes it's really just the timing of getting acquisitions on board in the quarter nothing other than that underlying the actual performance.
And then maybe Ron just one last one you sold only two planes during the quarter and in the prior quarters there has been a lot more is that just also a function of timing or are you running out of things you want to sell? No we have got a lot of stuff in the oven so you should expect a higher level of sales in this quarter and beyond.
Thank you.
And we’ll continue on to Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
So first on the 770 million of secured aircraft acquisitions are those part of the $1 billion you have planned for 2015 and if so can you give us a sense of the cadence of those investments throughout the year? They are and we expect the 770 million to close by the third quarter.
The incremental part will probably spread out of over the course of the year.
And then one of your customers United Airlines has been quite vocal about accessing the used aircraft market particularly calling out 10 to 20 narrow-bodies they are looking to lease in the near-term I was just curious if you see opportunity there? We've been discussing things with them we haven't struck on any deals with them but we certainly like to if we found the right terms.
I would note that they are not unique in that respect and that Southwest has been doing this for some time and in fact with Southwest we have a program of five 737 700 lease placements that are underway and those will be 10 year placements so basically aircraft that are starting out at around 15 years when we move from over to Southwest and basically they will be at the end of their economic lives and over the U.S.
majors I think have been on the Vanguard of looking at the economics of used versus new.
I think they are less unique there are more people looking at that now but kudos to them.
And then if I could just squeeze in one more.
The status of your airline watch list I know you made the comment that you are pretty pleased with your utilization rate but has there been any airlines added in the last few months to the watch list and are there any that are particularly on lease payments? Our receivable levels are really-really low and the biggest watch list area for us has been Russia as we've kind of talked about and we took action to chip that away in a very good way.
Russian airlines remain on our watch list but at the moment they are performing and there is three passenger airlines and that is it one airplane with each so actually I feel really good about where we sit today versus quarter ago or year ago.
Thank you.
And we’ll continue on to Helane Becker with Cowen and Company.
So I just wanted to double check one thing and that was the $770 million that ends in -- does that go through year-end or does that go through your September quarter? We expect to close those by the end of the September quarter.
So does that leave room to do additional transactions in the fourth quarter? There is room to do stuff even before that.
So it’s just being opportunistic in what’s available is that the way we should interpret that right? Always yes.
And then just your fleet age continues to come down I am kind of just -- and your lease terms match fairly closely maybe a year or two different but is there opportunity to bring that down further do you have like a goal in mind or are you okay with that kind of level where it is right now? Well let me separate those two Helane because I think of them as very different things.
We do manage the average lease term and I think the market of successful asset management in our business is one that keeps lease terms short during tough times we’re not locking in less favorable deals and when the market is good like we think it is today then to extend out those lease terms as much as possible.
So the fact that our lease term is almost a year versus a year ago is a conscious effort on our part.
The age of the fleet on the other hand is a different story and we do not manage and age we manage to returns risk adjusted returns and I think the fact that we have the decreasing fleet age it is an outcome as opposed to a target of our investment approach.
We happen to found good value in some of newer aircraft recently one of the things that’s been driving that has been the fact that financing costs are very attractive but you should not assume or define Aircastle as a new or used or a big or small aircraft buyer we’re completely flexible and are just basically looking at risk adjusted returns.
And steering along that line is there a region of the world that you are more focused on than another region or is there just kind of opportunistic there as well? For new business the big success factor that we’ve seen is just the relative strength of the local currency.
The aircrafts or assets are traded in dollars and if the local currency has lost a lot of its value in aircraft and airline carrying its aircraft in the local currency we’ll be able to sell much more effectively than otherwise.
And so that’s been a stimulus for a lot of deal flow for us.
The flip side as I mentioned during the prepared remarks was that rentals will look more expensive.
So you need to find a counterparty to believe we’ll be able to sustain a lease factor.
We’re also looking by the way not just at sale on lease back but just at outright purchases and redeployment elsewhere.
And that’s a little bit harder work but it also suits our Company quite well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Ron you mentioned how your watch list looks pretty good in 2015 versus 2014 so is the way to think about that is this a direct correlation to the likelihood of impairment charges for the year? And then also how should we think about the book value of the five older aircrafts that you -- that are scheduled to expire this year that you plan to sell and where are the market values of those airplanes tracking? The five aircrafts that we intend to sell are less than 2% of the total net book value of our fleet so it’s not very much.
And we expect to be profitable in our asset sales activity this year.
Of course the results vary by aircraft but that is how I’d answer that part of the question.
With respect to the impairment question there is a connection between credit quality and impairment it is an imperfect one one of that catalysts for causing a revaluation of the cash flows is when there is a change in outlook and at least it’s broken it’s certainly the case.
So from that perspective I feel better about it but I would note that the watch list that we have this is the portion of our fleet that’s got the lowest cushion in terms of cash flow coverage has decreased to an all time low level right now and that’s the result both of better conditions and frankly our sales efforts.
I also think that the fact that fuel prices are as low as they are has been beneficial for some of the older aircraft where there is a little more brittleness in regards to impairments and so that helps as well.
And then I’d like to do a sum of three follow-up questions on a few items you touched upon in your prepared remarks so sorry.
Okay.
First what is the average age of the aircraft that you have the scheduled lease expirations in ’15 and ’16? And then second part of that is how should we expect the lease strengths from these new leased aircraft compare to the previous lease terms? And then also the third piece is the duration that you discussed how does that compare with the previous duration for the previous terms? Well I’ll do my best to answer this I don’t think I have statistics off the top of my head but I’ll tell you that the aircraft that we’re selling expect to sell this year that have lease expirations this year are probably around 15 years old that’s a rough estimate.
They are definitely on the older side and the decision to sell them reflects a decision not to reinvest in the leases.
In terms of leases there is a variety of different circumstances here and I don’t know that I want to generalize too much what I would say is that the first thing you should expect is that every time you have a re-lease you're going to have a lower rent.
So as aircrafts get older there is in effect a degradation in rental overtime and the lease rates that we’re seeing on the aircraft coming off lease this year and next year are actually kind of consistent what we’ve been seeing for the last six months or so they are pretty steady they are pretty good and what makes me even happier about is not just the rental but the terms around the deal.
The credit quality of the customer the length of the lease and also the return condition maintenance profile of the transaction so there is a lot of things beyond the lease factor that actually weigh into how we look at those things.
I don’t know if that addresses your question adequately.
And then I wish I could squeeze just one more when we think about lease terms right are usually price in U.S.
dollars and the majority of your customers are not in the U.S.
but their income stream is from non-U.S.
denominated currencies.
How should we think about the strengthening dollar and the effect of that on your customers’ ability to pay their lease rentals? And then also oil has been helping them because oil has come down is there some sort of pricing balance that you see for those to offset them and at what point would you start being worried? Well there is to some degree we’ve talked a little bit about this in our remarks but I would say that fuel is a dollar denominated cost and it's been lower for just about everybody in the world not there are some countries that have price control regimes and taxes and stuff that don’t quite transmit everything directly.
But in general it's a very strong positive.
The currency effects vary wildly around the world and they don’t remain constant and one of the things you should expect about interest rates I mean our exchange rates is that eventually they may switch directions and so the horizon matters.
But for the short-term anybody with a weak local currency and a reliance on that local currency for revenues like an LCC for example those guys tend to just like short haul and generate revenues locally they will be more exposed.
And our sale-leaseback activity and for that matter our placement activity has all been with a view towards keeping the credit quality strong or for that matter increasing it and so the new deals have been very much considering the local currency effects and delineating between what we think of is good and bad credits.
Thank you.
We’ll now go to Andrew Light with Citi.
Do you think there are a couple of cycles I mean how does the current environments kind of feel to you relative to say 2006-2007 I don’t know in terms of volumes and transactions the kind of speed of aircraft value increases and so forth? There are a number of differences I mean there is both similarities and differences I don’t think it's as crazy as it was in ’07 and ’08 but certainly the financial market is open for business and more flexible than it was a year ago and much more flexible than say three years ago.
All this has led to greater transaction volume particularly in the used aircraft side.
What I think is different about it is is that the distribution of the travel and demand for aircraft is much more spread out than it was back in ’07 and ’08.
The chilled effect of growth in emerging economies is balancing that in a more healthy way I also think that as we look at Aircastle specifically we are in a very different place as a Company we’re more mature we’re more diversified as our financing sources and I think the other big difference has been in the catalyst to some of the growth in the transaction volume.
We’re seeing -- we saw a drop in fuel prices but only after the financial prices began.
What we’re seeing right now is different and it's happening in a more favorable backdrop.
So I think that helps our business in a way that it wasn’t available back in ’07.
In fact we had quite the opposite going on with fuel at that time.
So at one hand I do talk about the cycle but I don’t think everything is a complete repetition of the past.
So we try to draw lessons on that and act accordingly.
And then just a follow-up question you say you are making progress on the road to investment grade I mean is the road any kind of clearer and more specific in terms of process and timing? It is not a [Multiple Speakers] and maybe I should let Mike answer that question.
There is no more clarity Andrew it's that we believe it's a function of size of our business the history of our business and continuing to operate with strong credit metrics and with appropriate risk management dimensions to our business that as we scale up the businesses overtime.
And as we talked about during the Investor Day so we’re growing in a methodical and disciplined way but along the way in just about every dimension our business has become better from a risk profile whether it is the credit quality of our customers whether it's the average lease term whether it's the debt and diversity of our funding sources I think the Company is much better situated along all those dimensions in addition to being a little bit bigger.
Can I ask just final question.
I know you in the deal you produced exposure to freighters but it seems that air freighter market is picking up a little anyway in terms of demand and are you seeing any kind of impact on market values on those freights? I agree that there has been a pickup in demand it has not changed our fundamental assessment of the sector which is still negative and fundamentally because of the long-term supply growth.
That's not just due to dedicated freighters but also because of the increase of belly space I think the view that we have of the space is still leading us to kind of want to reduce the exposure and I think there is a good opportunity to do that today in fact and so as we mentioned previously the plan is over the next five years to sell our older conversion freighters which are I think the majority of the number of units those will all be kind of in the 20 plus year age category and as we look at the low fuel price environment most of the value of those aircraft is in engines and those engines actually probably benefit a little bit more than we would have expected say six months ago because there is more demand for those engines and the spare part coming from those engines.
So I think it's just an opportunity for us to kind of continue along that path and perhaps accelerate a little bit.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Ron I think you can kind of characterized the demand environment as somewhat strong and if anything that's kind of confirmed by the fact that one of your peers recently added no additional sale lease back commitments for 2016 and 2017 and I know how disciplined you are in planning deals and that you are still working on 2015 but I was wondering how visibility do you typically have into your pipeline for the out years is there any color that you could offer today about 2016 and beyond? I can offer to you that we have no commitments in 2016.
Our philosophy has been that we would like to get a premium return by making commitments into the out years versus doing something here now where you know how are you going to pay for it and that situation could happen but we want a premium as opposed to just taking on that same thing and at the same proposition and not getting paid for the opportunity cost.
And we are at probably a little bit more risk averse I mean it's one of the factors that I indicated when we talked about how our overall risk profile is actually quite a bit lower than people might really appreciate because we do keep things close in.
[Multiple Speakers] And just a follow-up on that I know you don't have any commitments but are you seeing maybe interest from global airlines a little bit more forceful in that nature or -- and I'm just wondering how the interest is kind of tracking? The way I would characterize it is that is has remained strong the level of new aircraft production is increasing both because there is more from each particular line and also because some new models like 787s and A350 are coming online and so that by itself will give rise to more demand.
I think these pricing tends to do a little bit better when interest rates rise versus now so maybe there is a little bit of upside if interest rates rise but I would say that in general the demand is strong and has been strong for some time.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
I know opportunistically you've spent more value in the narrow-body side of the equation but I was just curious if there are any particular aircraft types right now that are of interest to you or maybe conversely not interesting to you? It is really a financial question at the end of the day I mean what you probably will not see us doing is buying into situations we’re trying to reduce like freighters and a lot of production aircraft but we see a lot of value in the current generation narrow-bodies particularly in the mid-aged space right now and I think what’s driving it is number one airlines doing a little bit of planning in terms of how long they want to keep and residual value transfer.
Number two I think there is a recognition that these aircraft might be economically viable for a little bit longer given where the fuel price environment is and I think number three in the case of some of the airlines are growing a little bit more rapidly in time this is the way for them to manage their fleet size in orderly fashion and we have found good value in what I will call commodity aircrafts and that’s kind of always the easiest thing for us to manage.
In fact [indiscernible] but we do better than airlines.
Well I was just going to ask about is if you could comment on the moving parts contributing to the 2Q guidance there as well anything noteworthy? No just as we usually do factor in what we expect to close of our acquisitions in the quarter and what we have since sales prospects floating around out there some of which we expect to close in Q2 some of which will probably fall into the third quarter and it reflects pretty limited lease transition so we’re not expecting a big maintenance revenue number per se in the context of what we see in the current quarter.
Yes and I think what it also reflects this is a small factor so I’ll just comment on it any way is that gradually over the course of Q2 you will see the entering into service of all the aircraft that we took out of Russia.
So you should expect the utilization level to increase a little bit from where it was in Q1.
Thank you.
And we’ll now go to Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
I guess you’ve kind of talked about this in a number of ways so far but the dollars of least revenue the lease rental revenue have kind of been flattish since the middle of last year right and can you just maybe drill down a little bit as to what was causing that was it specific sales and because you’ve got it your expectation is that that actually does step up in Q2 but we’re going to kind of talk through that just that progression and how you see it kind of moving after the second quarter if possible? I think fundamentally if you look at the end of the first quarter of 2007 I have 5.7 billion of aircraft and at the end of first quarter I have 5.8 so a year later my net asset base is the same.
So that’s the simple answer we had a tremendous amount of sales activity last year which was partly responsible for that.
We’re expecting less overall sales activity this year but strong net growth in the context of the business.
The other thing is as we mentioned briefly is that the average lease term that we have today versus a year ago is longer and through a lot of lease extensions placements et cetera we’re seeing an effect and I think what you should think about also is that the asset base is around the same size the revenue base is around the same size but the quality is way better.
Thank you.
We’ll go to Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Company.
Ron just a follow-up I guess on the -- just a question that Moshe just asked you made a comment about I guess the margins coming down because of the quality of the portfolio I guess like our orders it was getting better.
How do you balance that improving quality of the portfolio versus the quality of the fleet versus maximizing revenue margin? GAAP is a funny thing because it measures a period of point in time return and when we do our -- we make our economic decisions we’re mindful of GAAP that really focus on cash flow overtime.
So what lease maps looks like.
If you have the same rent during the course of the lease which is typically the case the lease yield is going to be lowest in the first year and highest at the end and that effect is going to be amplified with a longer lease term.
So we’re not managing our business to GAAP that’s the first thing I would say.
That’s a sure way to get into trouble.
Another thing that I would say is that in addition to the average life of the leases being a little bit longer.
The jurisdictional and credit mix are better and the assets themselves are assets that we think have more fruitful future than the stuff we’ve been selling.
And then just in terms of India you recognized a gain on the sell to aircraft was that risk management or was that just financially you saw an opportunity to -- I guess from a risk reward perspective you saw a attractive opportunity there? Little bit of both.
We think India offers a lot of long-term potential and in fact it is one of the fastest growing parts of the world right now but you’ve all seen the movie in India I’d say very complicated and difficult market.
There is a too big of a he government role the rights have less source and not as clear as they should be and we’re very cautious about doing business there.
If we do business there incrementally we want to be protected and compensated for that.
But this happened to be a right place at the right time kind of situation and we took advantage of it.
And then one follow-up question a common theme on a lot of the calls this quarter has been just the amount of capital flowing into the space and increased sale-leaseback activity I am just wondering you made a point at your Investor Day about how you guys really approach to RFPs in most part you guys kind of kind of see special situations where you can use your expertise and knowledge to kind of add value for the airline.
Just wondering of the 770 million that you guys have booked how much of that involves kind of bringing an expertise to knowledge where maybe you are helping an airline with fleet strategy as opposed to just putting in the lowest bid and getting the aircraft to one degree or another all of it? It's a business where I think particularly in a time like now where there is a lot of money I agree totally with that comment.
The key to success is to do something different and helpful to your customer.
That’s the only way you're going to be compensated and that’s the only way you're going to find a good chance of winning an opportunity.
And we’ve got a great team and we have a few really I think cool tools in our arsenal we don’t feel constrained by an aircraft type or an age we have the ability to be a cash buyer we have expertise in managing transitions from one opportunity to another.
I mean these are a lot of little examples and sometimes we weave them altogether sometime we include some other dynamics.
But the only way we’ll win right now is if we find a value additive way and that’s what we really like to do? Thank you.
Our next question will come from Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs.
Ron I was wondering if you could give us your view on the A330 market I have heard some conflicting views about relative bullishness on it and then obviously people are concerned about some of the placements that are out there that need to find homes and then concerned about the future of the Neo as 787 deliveries improve.
So given that you guys are in this asset class and you had been big buyers of these planes in previous years what’s your view on that asset? I’ll give you short-term and long-term let's start with short-term.
If you have lease placements in the near-term it is bullish and the reason it’s soft is because Airbus is doing what Boeing’s doing for the 777 is just trying to fill in the back-end of their production run I don’t think that’s a long lasting effect it may last for a year or two but it's putting more supply out there.
Long-term still think it's a great asset and I think the fact that fuel prices are lower meaning the A330 is particularly competitive against the more modern 787 because the fuel price benefit is less.
So under the right circumstances we buy more A330s.
But I do think that there is some short-term placement pressure.
Now with regards to values -- look I think the asset sales that we’ve done last year and some of the things we have in progress this year do involve A330s and they are at good values.
So people are willing to pay for these aircraft and I think they share our perspective about them having a good long-term profile.
With respect to the A330 Neo from an Aircastle perspective we’d like to see that customer base develop a little bit further before we get into it a little bit more seriously.
It's not a big enough customer basis just yet Airbus is very good at remarketing and they are capable of that and there is a value story to be told there at the right price levels versus the 787 but we just haven’t seen that manifest itself in operator orders kind of just yet.
And then Mike I just wanted to ask for some color on the statement that I think you made that the Company is generating similar lease yields off of a higher grade portfolio and I think that that’s a big churners to what we -- to what some of us as observers might think just because we I guess we would tend to expect that and your aircraft has a lower yield.
So can you talk to us how are you doing that how is that because it is just that you guys have been able to find great deals and those are just the deals that you do because I think that people had viewed the oncoming or the integration of newer aircraft into the fleet is potentially having lower yield.
So adding size but maybe bringing the yield down.
So how are you guys countering that exactly? So I think it's a combination of things and I think it was Moshe who asked the question earlier.
So our lease rental revenue was similar dollar size in the first quarter of 2015 as it was in 2014 off of roughly the same size fleet.
Now when I look at my first quarter results and I look at my rental yield as a percentage of its net book value it's around 12.6% and historically when I had an 11 year old fleet I was running north of 13%.
So as a percentage yes it's smaller which is what you expect when you buy a newer aircraft and have much longer lease terms.
So we’re generating still very strong 12.5 plus percent rental yields very strong net interest margins and then the other thing that you have to keep in mind when you're thinking about new aircraft is they have longer lives and as a percentage of their asset base they have smaller depreciation than when you by a ’15 plus year old airplane.
So all of those things are consistent in what we’re trying to drive which is driving bottom-line EPS growth in this business overtime.
And Justine just to add a little bit to that I would emphasize the business we won has been because it's been value-added and we’ve been paid for it.
And also in regards to the mix of new business for the past we’ll say three quarters or so I’d say the rents yield has been somewhere in the 11% to 12% territory on a annualized basis.
That's the strength over net book value.
So to the extent that we have a large influx of that and our investment activity has been quite robust and as we sell older aircraft that maybe has higher yields but maybe not such a long and fruitful future that will have an impact as well.
So I think it's a combination of buying selling and the lease extensions as we discussed before and it's not a surprise.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vincent Caintic with Macquarie.
Just wanted to ask a question of or a follow-up questions on the competition and available capital in the market I guess first off what do you see as say the potential opportunity in terms of actually cost of funds improvement as your buying new airplanes and selling older aircraft and then more philosophically has the availability of liquid affected the calculus in terms of what you view as in terms of value investing and in terms of the aircraft that's interesting to you and in a specific types like different synergies and different types of aircraft? Mike maybe I'll take the second part of the question first and let you talk about the financing part but I think that the first thing I would observe is that as we look at the competitive landscape and compare with a year ago the biggest change has been in more competition more capital available for older aircraft may those new players I would characterize as being yield-driven folks that have might have been buying subordinated debt but can make the returns that they like and the fact that fuel has dropped so much has attracted them to incremental it's not an unreasonable proposition but this is the kind of stuff that requires a partner and most of them do as somebody who knows the asset quite well and requires an awful lot of work it's very maintenance intensive it's very labor intensive and I think that that's a big change versus last year I also think the big change that happened in the financing market versus last year is that there is more capital market set available for mid-aged aircraft and securitizations have been completed there and they look like reasonable deals they just weren’t available previously and that has affected the prices of mid-aged aircraft as well.
So probably the biggest changes in the market have been in pricing for the older and mid-aged aircraft because of those two factors.
In terms of how the effect… And in the context of the overall capital markets the high yield market in the U.S.
continues to be very strong and our particular spreads have tightened compared to some of our investment grade peers in that context over recent past and to the extent as we look at new investment opportunities that's part of the calculus of do we believe we are generating the right shareholder return by the blowing incremental capital and accessing that market and the traditional bank market is very strong all these usual players have been back more players are in that market as well and you are seeing spreads compressed in that context too.
So just to put a finer point on it is there any sort of trend that certain aircraft would look more appealing in the changed environment or just kind of any color there would be helpful? I don't think so again I think we've utilized the unsecured debt to be cash buyers of both new and mid-aged aircraft I think our competitive advantage in general is better on the mid-aged aircraft there because it's harder to find lenders there but sometimes speed matters too and even for newer aircraft it takes a while for a bank to do its thing on a secured loan so I don’t think so and I think it’s probably not as distractive of a difference as it might have been year ago.
Thank you.
We’ll go to William Matthews with Post Advisory.
Could you just give us a little more color on maintenance revenues it seems like in the second quarter where that's been a little above where I thought it was going to be in kind of what -- how we can look at that going forward how you look at it and how predictable it is? I will give you an answer on the second part it's not that predictable I mean what gives rise to the maintenance revenue is lease expirations and to some degree it's predictable in regards to when aircraft are coming off lease sometimes they run a little late because every lease has the return condition that the plus he has to meet and they don’t always get it done in time and usually when there is a delay we get compensated with higher than usual rents so the part that is hard to predict is exactly how much that amount will be because it depends on the condition of the aircraft and sort of a fluid number that gets adjusted overtime and then off course you have the unpredictable events where you choose or are forced to terminate a lease.
Is there a context I'm sorry in the context of our second quarter guidance we have few transitions and so we’re expecting a much smaller level of maintenance revenue recognition during Q2.
And then… I don’t think you should view as a bad thing.
And then if we think about your net debt to equity figures declined as before I think as you talked about getting to the investment grade if we think about opportunistic aircraft purchases dividend to shareholders other cash uses and keeping that net debt to equity number low or declining how do you prioritize those things? It’s hard to answer that in a vacuum.
We do see a few interesting and chunky opportunities of the buy side and if they are accretive.
And so within a broader envelope of debt to equity we are going to pursue them but there is no pre-set formula here.
And the broader envelope would be do you have a range for that? In terms of net debt to equity? Yes.
Yes and loom I think overtime we could run this business with net debt to equity of between 2.3 and 3 times and if we scale up in a context and credit profile commensurate with that I still think we can be an investment grade company.
Thank you.
We’ll now hear from Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
It is actually Jamie and Mark Streeter but it’s okay I’ll go first and Mark can do the follow-up.
Ron earlier in the call I think it was in response to Helane’s question you talked about increased lease duration being deliberate on your part on Aircastle’s part.
I’m wondering what level of push back you are actually getting from the airlines on that particularly with fuel having collapsed and given we maybe on the precipice of higher interest rates.
Could you add a little bit more color on that sort of push pull between you and airlines and I’m basically just trying to assess how much the average lease duration might be able to increase even further more than it already has? Well you make a point I think there is less resistance now to extending terms because of fuel and because of the concerns about interest rates in the future and I think the other part you have to consider is that when you look at the aircraft any given aircraft’s deployment you have to consider the maintenance cycle into effect as well.
We try to get aircraft back-off lease at points that are easier to re-market meaning fresh from a shop visit for example.
And in some cases we are able to get longer terms but meaning that was a less marketable aircraft because it needs more work sooner.
So it’s a balancing act.
But I think the takeaway here is it is a good market.
Okay.
I appreciate that color.
Let me turn it over to Mark.
Ron and Mike hi it is Mark just want to follow-up on the question that I asked you at the Analyst Day it’s really a follow-up of the same question which is this whole concept that you need to be bigger in order to improve your franchise risk in the minds of the rating agencies and so forth.
In this quarter you are about a $6 billion company I went back and checked as I mentioned I didn’t know the exact number.
There is 21 real estate companies for example with a market cap of $6 billion or less that are already rated BBB or higher and are accessing the capital market.
So I was just wondering if you had any further comments about what are you going to get when your $2 billion is bigger than where you are right now or $3 billion is bigger what is that going to do for you as a business and are you pushing back with the rating agencies to be investment grade rated now because your balance sheet is where it needs to be? Well I agree with you that our balance sheet is where it needs to be and the next time I go see them I’ll take you along with me right.
But I think more seriously that we do not manage our business for the sake of the rating agencies and our desire to be bigger is born out of the fact that we can be more efficient and deliver better value for our shareholders.
We had some economies of scale.
We do think there is some economies that can be borne out into the debt in the equity financing markets from being bigger.
But there is an attraction to being investment grade but it’s not at any cost and so we are mindful of that it’s a journey with the rating agencies and I think we’re making progress but time will tell.
Thank you.
We’ll now hear from Robert Smalley with UBS.
Hi.
It’s Robert Smalley in Fixed Income at UBS.
Thanks for taking my questions.
A lot have been answered on the margin side just to referring to Slide 10 in the second bullet point you have talked about the interest expense drag from the 500 million in debt how long does it take you to deploy that and get over that drag and is that something that would preclude you from looking in the market later in the year.
No that money will be invested in short order and some of it’s already being put to work in the first half of the year and to the extent we find additional opportunities to make sense of generating higher earnings for this business we could very likely be back in the market in the second half of the year.
It’s all going to be driven by what we see in our investment pipeline and how our other sources of capital including asset sale is lining up to putting that capital to work.
And on the third bullet on that page proactive liability management can you give us some examples of that and when I look at outstanding bonds you have got a 6.75 maturity in 2017 although it's trading well above pars that is something that you would look at addressing to lower your further interest expense cost with any kind of new issuance in the second half of the year? Yes but looking at our future maturity tower in the context of what we can do in the markets today is always a part of that mix.
So what make sense what are you going to do with that money and how does it fit into your ultimate refinancing and liability management structure going forward.
And I’ll also just say that the biggest event what I can think of is what we did last year which is to refinance our 9.75 bonds that was -- that involved an upfront cost as refinancing does but that’s a cost that we will recoup many times over.
So it's case-by-case but we look at it pretty thoroughly.
So when 9.75 is quite a hefty coupon was 6.75 or seven and eighths fall into that same category? Well I think our new deal today would definitely be sub-five it depends on how long the maturities would be and so on but then there is a math that goes into the prepayment and we just need to do that.
And then just my last question on that do you feel that that prepayment even though that’s an upfront cost that the equity market and equity analyst community would look through that pretty readily or is it something that might somehow even in the short-term impact the sock price? I think the simple thing is we do the math for ourselves as the long-term -- from a long-term lens and we made a decision in the positive way last year and everything else is case-by-case and we do this fundamentally as major shareholders ourselves.
Thank you.
And Nick Bell with Jefferies please go ahead.
It is Nick Bell with Jefferies also in Fixed Income I just had one brief follow-up for you just thinking about your comments in response to Justine on the A330 aircraft what would a wide-body redeployment look like today and I am just trying to think through those hypothetical book and how that might compare to your experience historically? There is a lot of missing pieces to that equation right now we are in the process of remarketing the three A330s we have coming off lease next year there are mid-aged aircrafts and we’re finding a decent amount of interest I’d say the rental levels there are probably $50 000 to $100 000 less than they would have been year ago.
But I think it is still doable and economical and I think the harder part of the market frankly is going to be on the new side where you are directly competing to a greater extent with the OEM.
Thank you.
And with no additional questions I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Yes thank you for your time today.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Thanks for joining us.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all again for your participation.