Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Aircastle Q2 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I'll now turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Debbie.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle's Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese our CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank and thanks to all of you for joining the call.
Today we'll discuss Aircastle's performance during the second quarter of 2015 our perspective on the business environment and its impact for our company and our longer plans going forward.
After that Mike will address Aircastle's financial results and then we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
The key themes I'll address with respect to Aircastle all pressing the strength value of our distinct franchise and aircraft leasing and investing.
They highlight our ability to grow and to generate strong financial results through three pillars.
Number one as an expert value investor one with a strong global origination network and unique value proposition for sellers and lessees.
Two as a skilled proactive and efficient asset manager one adapt with both new and used aircraft and is navigating through rapidly changing world circumstances and three as a successful seller of aircraft with deep technical expertise and market savvy.
These capabilities are real they add value and they are difficult to replicate.
In fact they define Aircastle.
Together with our efficient access to financing and strong strategic shareholders and Marubeni and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan they allowed Aircastle to deliver strong financial results.
Our business strategy is to share these results direct through dividend.
In that regard I am pleased to report that our Board of Directors declared our 37th consecutive quarterly dividend.
We'll be paying shareholders $0.22 per share during the third quarter.
Turning to our financial performance we delivered solid results during Q2.
Net income was $41.8 million or $0.51 per diluted common share up significantly versus last year.
Cash return on equity is 14.6% and our net cash interest margin was 9.1% which continues to be at the high end of the aircraft leasing industry.
During Q2 Aircastle maintained excellent operational performance.
We achieved 99% fleet utilization consistent with a standard we delivered upon over many years and throughout the business cycle.
One of the ways we did this was by redeploying all of the aircraft removed from Russia based lessees ahead of schedule.
The seven aircrafts we removed from Russia since last year were replaced with five lessees around the world and one was sold profitably.
This was an example of the decisive proactive and results driven vein which we measure assets.
We also increase the remaining average lease term of our fleet to 5.8 years improving our contractual revenue base and locking in the good turns we see in today's market.
We're a growth minded company and have been very successful in originating effective deals reflecting our flexibility our agility and our capacity to deliver tailored solutions.
During the second quarter we acquired 19 aircrafts for $553 million.
Year-to-date we closed or have commitments to close 31 aircrafts for $1 billion during 2015.
Although one of our investments this year are narrowed by the aircraft our strategy is to methodically explore opportunities across the market and deploy our capital where we best see fit as with a good valued investor.
To that end the part of the market where we're seeing the greatest amount of investor value at this time is in new and middle aged print technology in narrow-bodies.
However given the competition to deploy capital in today's market we believe the key to success is to offer a value added proposition to customers rather than just participate in large bidding situations.
To that end we're continuing to demonstrate our ability to source structure and close deal successfully.
In June we placed an order for 25 of Embraer new technology to each aircraft with the first delivery scheduled for 2018.
As you all know we set a very high bar for large future capital commitments and we're excited about this aircraft and its investment potential.
Embraer is a supplier of for more than 70 regional airline operators around the world and when you add in the significant enhancements that these two bring.
We think this is the clear category of leading aircraft for the 70 to 130 seat market.
We're also thrilled about this important new collaboration for with Embraer.
Embraer's go to market strategy with respect to ours is different.
In contrast to the other OEMs Embraer is focusing on two or three big leasing companies to help establish our new generation aircraft.
This is a partnership where I believe Aircastle's strengths can shine.
Investor interest in aircraft is very strong and we're taking advantage of this.
During Q2 we sold 10 aircraft for around $180 million and we designated for sale two freighter aircrafts.
These sales contributed meaningfully to our strong bottom line results during the quarter.
And as you'll hear from Mike Inglese shortly we expect strong sales results in Q3 as well.
What makes these sales noteworthy is that we're making money while operating our portfolio and in many cases we're squeezing very good value out of aircraft at the end of their economic life.
This is a characteristic that distinguishes Aircastle.
I would now like to cover our view of the business environment.
Traffic continues to grow at around 6% this year.
This is more than twice the rate of the world's GDP growth.
There are not that many global businesses that can post this kind of strength.
All the while load factors are around 80%.
These are exceptionally strong levels and it's a sign of healthy demand.
Though fuel prices looks like they will drive the global airline industry to record profits this year of course this profitability is extremely uneven across the world.
These difference in business conditions but it is nonetheless a good thing.
Higher profitability also typically leads airlines to be more confident about their futures and to make longer term fleet commitments.
In general ramp levels and lease terms are quite favorable for lessors and we're focused on locking in what we reasonably can today with a bias towards better quality of our fees.
We see strong demand in lease terms for narrow-bodies particularly for current generation models.
For wide-bodies growth remains soft as manufacturers work through end of line issues for A330s for 777.
While both Boeing and Airbus have made progress in this respect recently we believe this will persist for several quarters.
The financing market is very buoyant and the investor search for yield has driven many of these aircraft.
This is on the big differences between today's market and last years.
And aircraft pricing is benefitting from all this with the biggest improvements not surprisingly coming in the older end of the market.
This is being driven by not only by better financing market access by also from hirer anticipated utilization for older aircraft.
As we look ahead we continue thinking about Aircastle as a growing company situated in a market with terrific prospects.
However we recognize that investment opportunities don't present themselves evenly over time.
As such we believe success derives from investment discipline.
We also very much like the flexibility of not being tied down with huge order stream commitments.
As we think about deploying capital for new investments we're still aiming for 15% economic ROEs.
We believe we can still achieve this in market but only for the less competitive value added deals that are stocking trade.
Our primary concerns as we look ahead is the global economic growth in general and particularly in some regions is falling short of expectations.
In some cases due to geopolitical issues.
However we believe that some of these challenges create opportunities.
For example large shifts in foreign exchange rates along with our other important changes in the business environment can facilitate new investment transactions.
We’ve been taking advantage of this for the past year.
Our financial structure expertise and agility are built to capture such movements and we like having dry powder.
It’s a fluid environment but in addition to the $1 billion in closed or committed deals we discussed earlier we feel confident in our ability to deploy $200 million to $400 million more this year and it’s also good prospect for more if we find the right circumstances.
Over the past three years our aircraft investments have grown by $1.4 billion to $6.1 billion at the end of Q2.
Adding in more than $0.5 million in aircraft we originated and managed for a joint venture of Ontario Teachers.
We've quietly growth our fleet by nearly a third and that's even more impressive when considering this net growth has taken place against the backdrop of having sold more than 80 aircrafts during the same period.
All this bodes well for our earnings power our dividend paying prospectus and for investor.
We're confident in the future of Aircastle our new business generating capabilities and investment discipline are serving as well.
Our portfolio management skills are topnotch and our ability to realize on our investments has really come through over the past few years.
Also we believe we're on a clear path to achieving investment grade credit ratings which can provide earnings upside and all in all we believe the value and distinctiveness of our franchise will become even more valuable as our business environment continues to grow and evolve.
Mike? Thanks Ron.
Our results during the second quarter were very strong.
Net income was $41.8 million versus $3.1 million for the prior year.
Adjusted net income was $47.2 million or $0.58 per share.
Our profitability and return on capital continues to improve as we reposition and expand the fleet.
As explained on our first quarter call we're done with our lease placement needs for 2015.
We’ve also continued to make great progress in addressing the aircraft that come off lease in 2016 and have five aircraft left to place representing about 2% of the net book value of our fleet.
Our portfolio continues to perform very well with 99.1% utilization levels and very low customer receivables.
During the first half of 2015 we closed 25 aircraft investments of which 24 were current technology narrow-bodies for approximately $800 million.
We also have commitments to acquire six other aircrafts for about $200 million during the balance of the year.
We're finding particular success with large custom tailored purchased and leaseback deals with airlines around the world.
About half of our first half acquisitions and commitments with Asian carriers with the balance split between Europe and Latin America.
Of our total fleet of 161 aircrafts we currently own 110 unencumbered assets with net book value of approximately $3.7 billion or roughly 61% of our fleet net book value.
In addition we call on and manage another five aircraft with a net book value of approximately $0.5 billion through our joint venture with Ontario Teachers.
Turning to our results lease rental and finance lease revenues for the quarter were $186.7 million essentially flat versus prior year but an increase of $7.7 million on a sequential basis.
Over the past year we continue to rebalance our fleet and upgrade our overall portfolio quality from an asset credit and geographic perspective.
We've been focused on generating high quality longer term contracted lease yields of higher grade portfolio.
Our Q2 acquisitions had a weighted average lease term of approximately nine years and a weighted average age of slightly less than four years.
Total revenues for the quarter were $204.6 million down $21.6 million from the prior year primarily driven by lower maintenance revenue of $14.8 million.
The decrease was due to higher maintenance revenue recognized in the second quarter of '14 associated with the sale of four aircrafts.
Total revenues were strong and increased $10.3 million on a sequential basis or a little over 5%.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $214.6 million versus $211.7 for the prior year.
Higher gains from the sale of flight equipment of $20.2 million were partially offset by lower maintenance revenues.
Adjusted net income for the quarter was $47.2 million or $0.58 per share essentially flat year-over-year and merrily reflects the gain on sales of flight equipment of $20.2 million higher joint venture earnings offset by lower total revenues of $21.6 million.
Net income was $41.8 million versus $3.1 million for Q2 '14.
Note the previous year included a $36.6 million bond redemption expense associated with the refinancing of our nine and three quarter senior notes scheduled to mature in 2018 which we replaced with five and eight debt maturing in 2021.
Interest expense for the quarter was $61.6 million an increase of $1.1 million over the prior year due primarily to a higher weighted average debt balance of approximately $200 million year-over-year.
The higher debt balance is partially offset by lower amortization and deferred losses of $2.7 million.
Depreciation was up $1.6 million or $77.4 million for the quarter due to the increase in fleet size.
The net book value of the aircraft portfolio rose to $6.1 billion at the end of Q2 '15 versus $5.7 billion at year end 2014.
Consistent with our ongoing effects to reduce our freighter exposure during the quarter we elected to part out at least rather than reinvest in two in MD11 freighters.
We also made a similar decision with respect to an older 737-800.
In connection with these part-out actions we recorded impairment charges in the quarter of $24 million which were largely offset by $18 million in maintenance revenues.
During the quarter we sold 12 aircraft for proceeds of approximately $230 million -- I am sorry that's year-to-date 12 aircrafts for $230 million including 10 aircrafts for $180 million during the second quarter.
The average age of assets sold was 15 years and the assets include two older A330s and a 767 as we rebalance the portfolio and continue to profitably exit from out of production aircraft types.
Gain from the sale of aircraft totaled $21.1 million during the quarter and $27.4 million year to date.
Low oil prices and low interest rates continue to drive a strong bid for current technology aircraft was attractive lease rental yields even for aircraft with short remaining lease terms.
To that end the average remains lease term for the aircraft we sold in the quarter was just around three years.
Our second quarter tax provision was $4.5 million at an effective tax rate of about 10.2% year-to-date.
We expect our full year ETR to be around 10% to 11%.
At the end of the quarter we owned 161 aircraft with a net book value of $6.1 billion including a 110 on unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $3.7 billion.
The NBV of our flight equipment has grown by $2.4 billion since the second quarter of 2010 while the unencumbered fleet has grown to $3.7 billion over that time period.
The increase in our unencumbered fleet enhances the company’s liquidity position and strengthens our overall credit profile.
As Ron mentioned our cash return on equity on an LTM basis was very strong at approximately 14.6%.
For the second quarter of 2015 our portfolio lease rental yield was 12.6%.
We've seen a modest decline in lease rental yields versus historical average which reflects a reduction in the weighted average age of our fleet to eight years down from 11.3 years at the second quarter of 2010 and an increase in our weighted average remaining lease terms of 5.8 years.
Our net cash interest margin which continues to be among the industry strongest came in at about 9.1%.
At the end of the quarter we had $243 million of unrestricted cash $162 million of restricted cash and $450 million of unused revolver capacity.
During the quarter we extend the maturity of our revolver to April of 2019.
You'll recall that we increased our revolver capacity by $150 million in late January of this year.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $4.3 billion including $2.9 billion of unsecured debt.
Weighted average coupon of our debt was 4.78% at the end of the second quarter versus 4.69% at the end of 2014 and the weighted average debt maturity is approximately 4.3 years at the end of the second quarter.
During the quarter we closed new secured loans totaling $150 million with Bank of Tokyo MUFJ and Development Bank of Japan leveraging their strong and longstanding relationships with our largest shareholder Marubeni.
Further these transactions help extend our strong global base with banking partners.
Our net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.25 times at the end of the quarter.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders and towards that end our Board approved the $0.22 per share common dividend payable on September 15.
We've now paid out over $570 million in dividends since going public in the third quarter of 2006.
As usual we've included certain guidance elements for the third quarter in our earnings release and PowerPoint that was posted to our website this morning.
Of particular note you'll see that we expect continuation of robust sales activity which is reflected there and our gain on sale guidance of $12 million to $15 million for the third quarter.
To summarize we’ve ended the quarter with a strong trading momentum and our outlook for the balance of 2015 is very positive.
Our business is performing well we remain focused on increasing EPS ROE and operating cash flow.
We continue to make progress towards our aim of achieving investment grade rating and finally we’ll continue to successfully execute our disciplined growth strategy and proactively managing the aircraft portfolio to deliver strong shareholder returns and enhance shareholder value going forward.
With that operator we’re happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].We’ll go first today to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo.
Thanks operator.
Good morning guys.
Mike on those robust Q3 asset sales can you tell us how many aircraft are assumed to be sold in that 12 to 15 estimate and also do you have a target average age for fleet as I assume you continue to sell planes that are above average age now.
Hey Gary it's Ron.
I'll take that.
The number of aircrafts is still work in progress but I would say it's a comparable number to the ones we sold in the second quarter.
The types of assets that we’re focusing on in terms of sales fall into few buckets.
In general we’re looking to improve the long-term earnings profile of what we hold and so the average remaining lease term tends to be short.
We’re focusing on reducing our exposure to freighters and to add a production aircraft.
We’re also looking to rebalance towards narrow bodies versus light bodies but I would say that the earnings profile is probably the biggest characteristic and what we’re selling is not something that has as bright of a long term future from our perspective.
I see also I might have missed it but did you go over the lease expiration profile rest of this year and for 2016 and what your placement requirements look like.
Yeah we've basically completed all 2015's lease placements and as we look into next year we've gotten a very strong start on that and today we have five aircrafts left representing about 2% of the net book value for releasing scheduled in 2016.
Okay great and one last one from me can you tell us how Q3 utilization is shaping up? Do you have any grounded aircraft now because I think in the last year Q3 I think you had 100% utilization is that a possible target this year? I think it will be pretty.
Whether we hit the 100% we'll see but it will be very good.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We will take our next question from Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
So first just piggybacking off of Gary’s question on those remarketing requirements for next year two questions on that one can you tell us how the lease terms i.e.
price duration of those new contracts compared to prior remarketing efforts… Operator are we there? One moment.
[Operator Instructions] Hi we lost you for a minute.
No worries so I'll just start over.
On the remarketing requirements for next year two questions.
The first one is if you could tell us how lease terms like price and duration of those new contracts compared to prior remarketing efforts with similar vintage aircrafts.
I am just trying to get a sense of how trends have shifted if at all.
And two can you tell us more specifically what those five aircrafts are that you have in 2016? We have one A330 and some narrow-bodies and I believe we also have one freighter that we expect to -- 747 we expect more likely and that will be a part out at the end of its lease which is in late '16.
There is not a lot of big sample size here but I will tell you that the market for narrow bodies as I said during my prepared remarks has been quite strong and where we have a good fit from a maintenance interval perspective we try to stretch things out.
Also importantly we're really focusing on the better credit quality opportunities where we have choice and for the narrow-bodies we certainly do.
For the wide-body the 330 is an older aircraft or limited choices but still some decent competition.
The main focus there is going to be on a good long lease term provide we have an adequate credit quality customer I think we may.
So I would say the board commentary reaches that rental levels are about level with last year but I think the intangible factors is that there is more choices and better non-economic lease terms.
Okay very good and then secondly Ron can you talk a little bit more about the air cargo market.
Obviously it's an area where you're reducing exposure reaffirmed today by designating those two freighter for sale but I’m just curious if you see any shift in trends either down or up in that market.
And then on a related note on the two freighter aircraft you have for sale are those actually going to be sold do you have tutors for those cargo aircraft or are those ultimately going to be parted out.
The cargo market has improved modestly this last year or so.
Demand has picked up.
The problem with the cargo market is basically less supply and I think it's going to take a long time for that to get worked through and so our strategy has been consistent and we're executing on it.
There are some bright spots in a way in a sense that most of the end of life value for an aircraft derives from its engines and engines aren’t specific to cargo aircrafts.
So we’re doing pretty well in terms of the part-out realization and to put it in perspective we think of our fleet our freighter fleet as having two parts.
There is the older converted freighter fleet which is end 11 fit into it and our basic strategy with those aircraft is to run them out and then sell them for parts.
And those two on the 11s and Mike alluded to it and I mentioned are going to be sold on that basis.
I expect that within the next two or three years that fleet will completely go away and all we will be left with will be five newer factory built freighters that are on lease with better customers for generally long terms.
So I don’t expect there is going to be much of an improvement particularly for these older aircrafts and you will see us kind of work our way out of those things as leases end and if there is an early opportunity there to terminate them and make sense of it we will do.
I agree and then if I could squeeze one more in regarding order yesterday for 15 787 eight to nine delivering between 2017 and 2020 they indicated that they will be looking to lease half of those.
Do you have interest in pursuing that business at all? We're open to new business in general.
I'll also find an airline and the question will be what will they ask for specifically on the order aircraft? Are there opportunities for us to play in that and if there are little we'll certainly take a look at it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to follow up on the sales activity and it seems like it's been higher than expected and you did know that the secondary market remains quite strong.
So I am just wondering is there actually scope to see maybe Aircastle sell a larger portion of its portfolio in a single transaction so much as something that we're seeing from one of your competitors recently.
Yes I don’t want to ever take anything off the table but our basic strategy on sales has been much more incremental and I think we have a great team that's able to squeeze the best value out of individual aircraft or smaller packages.
That's an easier thing to digest from an execution perspective as well and it de-risks the whole process also.
So we're kind of more inclined in that direction Nathan.
So the answer is probably not and more likely we'll continue our approach as we have so far.
Got it.
And just a quick follow-up on the lease terms that you're getting on your remarketing activity for the 2016 aircraft you did mention that it was pretty good but curious to hear if there is any consideration for the possibility of rising interest rates as you guys actually work through the lease terms.
Is that something that you guys do discuss and again just kind of curious to hear your thoughts there? Well a couple comments about interest rates in general -- to the extent that interest rates rise my view on how that percolates through the market is that think of it as a hierarchy.
New aircrafts are as largely -- have rents that are largely set with respect to interest rates to prevail delivery.
And then that in turn sets the lease rental possibilities for older aircraft.
If interest rates rise rents on new aircraft will rise and that will trickle on that.
Having said that that process can take some time and we're very focused on finding good opportunities locking in and moving on and this sets a small number of aircraft left for 2016 that we’re not letting that distract us too much.
Okay.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
This is James Amine on for Moshe.
Thanks for taking my question.
In light of the recent M&amp;A bids for one of your competitors can you guys characterize your view of interest from Asian -- Asian financial institutions to potentially acquire global aircraft lessors and then can you also just talk about what kind of offer you guys would need to see for you to consider a bid? Well I'll say I cover the first thing that’s more straightforward and it’s an entirely new thing as you know there has been a number of leasing companies that have been purchased over the years by these institutions and there is a broader shift here in term of the center gravity of the business towards Asia in keeping with where traffic is happening that’s natural.
I think for a couple of distinct things happening that I would say center in China number one there have been some very rapidly growing Chinese leasing companies that for the most part have thought to built platforms organically and to be candid I think they're locking in platforms.
And so that might give rise to an M&amp;A scenario.
I think there is a desire by several different jurisdictions Chinese Japanese etcetera to perhaps diversify the currencies in which their investments are denominated and aircrafts have performed well and that could be a factor here too.
I think there is a growing acceptance that critical mass is important in our space as well.
All these things bode well for real platforms and as I said during my remarks it wasn’t an accident.
We're very proud of the platform we have.
We think it has real value.
We don’t have any plans to do anything with the company but we're always open for phone calls and that's kind of where I'll leave it.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Scott Valentin with FBR &amp; Company.
Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Scott.
Just with regard to the service backed market just wondering in terms of contested RFP situations versus uncontested you mentioned I guess there is some potential for additional acquisitions in the back half of the year.
I am just wondering maybe if you had a rough breakout of what percentage of your acquisitions are done through RFPs and what percentage is done just uncontested? I think there is no clear answer for that Scott because the situation is tend to evolve and sometimes it's -- I'll tell you one thing.
One thing that we tend not to spend very much time on there is the big processes where you have three four five dozen people show up and you do have those that's a very bad use of time.
What we tend to focus on is things where there is a handful of people and where the situation plays to our strength.
And to say that there is never competition is kind of being a little bit disingenuous.
I think for a quote unquote "no bid situation" those are almost always from experienced counterparties who have a very good sense for the market.
So in the world today you have to -- you are kept honest and where we make money and where we win is by offering something that we're capable of doing better than other people either moving quickly being flexible about aircraft types being a little bit more customer tailored in our approach.
Everyone of our deals this year with the exception of one aircraft has been airline deals that have had some combinations of those elements and that's a very sharp contrast to what we used to do historically which is a lot of lessor business.
Right now the lessor business is hard to win particularly compared to airline deals and I expect that that will continue.
Doesn’t mean we're not going to try but I think there is continued score particularly in contacts where an airline is trying to manage capacity that could be the case in South America or other slower growth economies.
It could be in situations where somebody is trying to take advantage of the strong dollar relative to the local currency.
There is lots of different scenarios but I would say that the focus we have in terms of winning is probably airline oriented and always going to be on things that are not so bit out of.
Okay thanks for the help.
And then on the investment grade rating I know it's been focus and kind of a goal for you guys to try and achieve that.
Just wondering in the past I think you said it's kind of has been a size threshold we believe I think $8 billion is the number that's been kind of thrown around.
That the portfolio that the fleet has to be set size before investment grade rating is possible I am just wondering how is that goal of the investment grade rating how does affect your buy and sell decisions in terms of managing the portfolio? Does it have any impact whatsoever? I would say that we try to run the business as we best see fit period.
And the experience we had in the past from securitizations from other situations we need to believe that we should manage the company not with a view towards what a rating agency wants to accomplish but what we want to do? We have to live with whatever we do and we have to be happy with it and I would not encourage the company with a bad deal simply to meet a size threshold because that’s not going to do anybody any good from a shareholder perspective.
Okay fair enough and then one final question you mentioned some weakness in the wide-body side A330 and 777.
I was just wondering you guys are opportunistic do you see opportunity here maybe to shift back to wide-body and acquire some of those aircrafts in the weak period given it sounds like that the manufactures are addressing the issue through production? We always keep an open mind about that it's not the -- it's about price and if we find a wide-body situation where the price is good and if it makes sense relative to the broader context of the transaction we have to do that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Scott.
We’ll go next to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys good morning I know you commented on narrow-bodies of course being most attractive right now but just curious if any specific types are preference right here and then maybe you could also expand on your thoughts on the e-jets and kind of where they fit into the airline niche in terms of demand as well? The question on the narrow-bodies is they are all interesting.
We focus on the more commonly used aircrafts as opposed to niche ones.
And we like Boeing we like Airbus.
It's a question of pricing and deal terms and we are very open minded.
And I think one of the places where we see particular value is not necessarily in the brand new air planes.
We tend to be a little less competitive there because we're much more focused on line effects than maybe some of our peers but we see great value particularly in the fuel environment that we have today in aircraft that are five 10 years old and very very competitive in terms of lease demand.
I think the e-jets are very much in keeping with our strategy.
I'll will just kind of cover a couple of basic principles as we approach this opportunity.
Number one we look for situations that are less competitive and where we can add value and various approach in terms of partnering with a couple of three lessor partners fits into that very directly.
Number two on many occasions we've spoken about our reluctance to make big capital commitments into the future without getting compensated for increased risk on placement and increased risk on funding and also the drag affects of production payments to the manufacturers as the aircraft gets old.
As we look at this proposition we felt that we were going to be compensated and we used a 15% ROE threshold and it's a higher threshold in our view in this context than there is for a narrow deal.
And I would also add just one last thing which is as we thought about this obviously fuel is an important factor in the economic proposition and we underwrote the deal based on fuel price environment here now.
I think it's really cool aircraft.
I think it's got an incredibly powerful market position and we have delivery positions at the very front end of this production line that are going to be very valuable.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks and then one other quick follow-up I was just curious if there is any way to split the maintenance revenue recognized this quarter into perhaps more regularly recurring and then that associated with the sales.
I’m not sure that there is simple answer for that but one thing I would guide you to in the materials we put out both in the power point in the press release we had a table that shows a breakout of the different P&amp;L geography elements on our sales and so you will see our maintenance revenue for the different sold aircraft and obviously the total versus the different can may be illuminate you on that aspect.
But I will emphasize that maintenance revenue by its nature is a periodic and hard to predict and I wouldn’t use Q2 in anyway a guide for what Q3 will be I focus on the guidance in that respect.
Yeah thanks.
I know its little bit difficult to predict there but thank you for the color.
I appreciate it.
Sure Thanks Jason.
We’ll go next to Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Kristine.
Earlier you guys mentioned how your marketing leases are flat -- that you were seeing flat rental revenues versus last year but you’re seeing some changes in non-economic lease terms can you discuss what these non-economic terms are? Return conditions the -- when we have leases we have maintenance reserves.
Typically we have I think better terms there better coverage versus our expected cost.
It could be tighter terms in terms of maintenance standards.
It could be tighter provisions in terms of the leases here in terms and lease.
I don't know if that helps but I think it sounds like soft stuff but it's actually the stuff that matters when you hit the bump in the road.
And just to clarify are these changes to your benefit? Absolutely.
Or to your customer's benefit yeah.
Our benefit it’s a lessors market right now.
Great and for the lease for the $1 billion aircraft assets do you expect the close for the full year what are the lease rate factors for those? And then also you mentioned that you try to go for the less competitive areas.
So for the deals that you have bid what was your win rate? Well a couple of things.
One is I think the win rate for our transactions depends on what you count as your base of things that you pursue because we don’t typically go after the big formal RFP type of process situation.
We might begin a process and then drop out and come back in.
I would say if we hit 20% we're doing pretty well.
But by design we avoid a lot of the more heavily trodden situations.
I think the lease rate factors vary a lot depending on the lease term.
What many of our competitors have focused on new aircraft exclusively it's a little bit easier to use that as a benchmark but we also look at used aircrafts with shorter terms and those tend to have higher lease rates.
We tend to also favor by the way situations where the price is very low and maybe the lease rate isn’t very high but there is less risk.
So I think there is harder generalization from that kind of statistic but I would say that we are doing quite well in terms of lease factors considering the pedigree of what we're buying.
Okay.
And broadly speaking when you look at an aircraft how should we think about the economic effect of impairment charges versus maintenance revenues? Is it depending on how the price you paid for the aircraft if you have better return conditions or supplemental maintenance pieces are those the pieces that would offset the impairment charges and are your deals generally structured that way? If we're doing our job right we're buying aircraft to last more than one lease.
So it's really hard to track one thing one lease and next one after that so on and so forth.
The general principle you should think about are as follows.
Number one is we are very focused on making sure we have maintenance reserves or lease and compensation that covers the time burned off.
And number two we're very focused on making sure that the maintenance intervals meaning the time where you to spend a lot of money and lease ends are coincidental so we have an option about whether we want to reinvest or not.
Beyond that there is a such a ton of noise that I don't know that I can generalize and give you any great answers.
Great and last question for me the upgrade to an investment grade rating work came up a couple of times from your prepared remarks and also in the Q&amp;A do you think this is a late 2015 event or 2016? Do you have any sort of feel for possible timing? Yes frankly speaking there is no specific timing that we can point to.
We will need to continue to grow the business achieve scale and deliver strong credit metrics to get there but that could happen in a short period.
It could happen over a longer period.
It depends what we do in the context of growing the business and we intend to do that as Ron said not just to get through an investment grade rating but to make more money for our shareholders.
That was the primary constituent who we're trying to serve here.
We're conscious of all the other capital providers for the business but we're going to do it and we're going to continue that march in a disciplined fashion and we think will get us there.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator instructions] We'll go next to [Bill Mastoras] [ph] with Baird and Company.
Thank you for taking my question and most of my questions have been answered but I would like to circle back to the E2 order Ron I am wondering how many of those aircrafts do you now have placed if any at all? This is a departure after all from certainly past strategies.
None yet.
We discussed -- I think give us a year or two and you'll see a lot of progress there.
There are a lot of discussions underway.
Remember this is an aircraft that we'll not roll off the line for the first time until 2018.
So this is a bit on the early side.
Okay.
And how should we be thinking about CapEx in each one of the years beginning in 2017 going forward just in terms of what you might incur? Well I direct you to the table in the 10-Q.
The company doesn’t have a lot of other future capital commitments beside this program.
So this should give you a pretty good indication on that.
It's pretty well spread out and we have 25 aircrafts in total seven of these for the first three years and then for the end.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Darryl Genovesi from UBS.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sure.
Hey Ron you had commented about the prospects of rising interest rates and the likelihood that yields would likely move higher as well in that scenario I was just wondering if you can provide a little historical context because when I kind of look at what's happened here over the course of the last 10 years call it it looks like at least on new aircrafts lease yields have actually been remarkably stable within kind of 100 or so basis point range.
While if you look at corporate line yields the trigger yields or anything else you've had a pretty steady decline of kind of 400 basis points or so until a little -- the situation seems like it's perhaps a little bit different on the older aircraft side with bigger swings although still not what I would necessarily characterize as high degree of correlation with overall market interest rates kind of over that time period.
So if you could just provide a little bit more context as to how you're thinking about that past 10-year period or any historical period relative to your expectations for the forward outlook if interest rates should rise? I would say a couple of things it's very tricky to try to compare a bond time series to lease rental time series.
Lease rental time series are pretty noise and they're very situational and this thing called maintenance actually really kind of blows a lot of economics terms out of the water.
You definitely do have a heightened sense of cyclicality when you get away from the older aircraft in terms of placements and so that might obscure any kind of statistical relationship you square is not going to be anywhere near what you might expect if you look at a starting a newer aircraft series.
But I can tell you just anecdotally and this is -- I always like to fall back on common sense.
If you have a brand new A320 and interest rates are as they are today you're looking in at a rest of 350 if interest rates rise 100 basis points you're looking at something probably $3 000 higher.
So I think that will be pretty easy to transmit things.
Now if you look at what does a 10-year older aircraft lease for? Today I think you're looking at something in the low 200s.
If fuel prices don't change and that's another variable that kind of affects everything here then I think you're going to see that the effect that we just talked about is largely going to transmit over into the older aircraft.
And the opposite of that caps in as well.
There is an even further drop in interest rate is hard to think back that you're going to get better rent on an old aircraft if the new ones is cheaper but also you should drive some comfort from this as the supply demand situation is pretty tough right now.
So there is not going to be the kind of compression issues that might have happened in the softer market.
There are this many more moving pieces there and I would hate to say it's going to be like the same kind of outer break equation as maybe something else.
Yes I just wonder if there is something in particular that happened over the course of last cycle or two that caused kind of a departure just directionally in lease factors relative to kind of what you would expect to be kind of the intuitive relationship with interest rate and perhaps that's something you do -- I am sorry you feel you said.
Yes.
Okay.
I was going to suggest perhaps the exit of some of the European banks from the aircraft financing business in front of the 2008 2009 timeframe as perhaps as drivers… We don't charge the lease factors are a derivative.
We charge rent.
We charge rents and in fact again may that has a subsidiary impact but happy to talk about this offline a little bit more if you want to talk in greater detail in fact further.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back to Aircastle Management for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks for your time today.
We hope you found the call helpful.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me at 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.