Good day everyone.
Welcome to today's Aircastle Limited Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Frank Constantinople Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for Aircastle.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Melody.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Aircastle Limited's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today are Ron Wainshal Aircastle’s Chief Executive Officer and Mike Inglese CFO.
We'll begin the presentation shortly but I would like to remind everyone that this call is being recorded and the replay will be available through our website at www.aircastle.com along with the earnings press release and our PowerPoint presentation.
I would like to point out that statements today which are not historical facts may be deemed forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from the estimates or expectations expressed in those statements and certain facts that could cause actual results to differ materially from Aircastle Limited's expectations are detailed in our SEC filings which can also be found on our website.
I'll direct you to Aircastle Limited's earnings release for the full forward-looking statement legend.
And we’ll now turn the call over to Ron.
Thanks Frank.
Welcome to the call.
Before speaking to our overall results I’d like to cover two important matters for addressing head on.
Together they gave rise to impairments for the total net after-tax impact of $66 million during the quarter and somewhat diminished but was otherwise a very strong performance during Q3.
The first of these relates to Malaysian Airline System or MAS which is restructuring to address typical financial issues.
MAS survived tough times before but this is the first instance their controlling shareholder the Malaysian Government didn't support the airline and its stakeholders in the balanced way that it had repeatedly in the past.
In fact earlier this year the Malaysian Government passed a new bankruptcy loss specifically for the MAS restructuring.
Upon its passage MAS promptly declared bankruptcy and began the process of widening down the airline while simultaneously forming a new carrier unburdened by past obligations.
As part this restructuring they rejected the lease of our 777-200ER as they did with aircraft done by several other lessors.
And in fact they told us to pick up the aircraft as is and not to expect any further payments.
We're experiencing the dealing with restructurings and took immediate steps to protect our asset and our position.
The aircraft is now in our possession.
Our losses at MAS consist of future rentals as well as compensation for maintenance value consumed during the term of the contract which was to be due at lease expiry.
We will be pursuing remedies for this and would say that the approach taken here is disappointing.
If creditors are ultimately treated unfairly we expect MAS as well as other Malaysian state control enterprises will be able to benefit from the same kind of implicit trust the finance community has placed in them for decades past.
I’m glad to report we have no other aircrafts with MAS.
The 777 we repossessed is the only one of its kind in our fleet and is 17 years old.
While we're still evaluating deployment alternatives we elected to write this aircraft down to our best estimate for scrap value.
We typically wouldn’t do so for an aircraft this age as we’d expect to secure one or two further leases.
However our current weak market demand for wide-bodies a large number of competing aircraft and the growing number of countries and posing aircraft stage limits makes it more difficult to recovery the big investment needed for releasing.
Nonetheless we are pursuing both leasing and sales opportunities actively.
The second matter relates to the air cargo sector from which we're strategically accelerating our exit.
This sector continues to suffer from a lot of capacity.
While there is a modest pickup in demand earlier this year most of these gains were erased by the impact of additional supply entering the market.
Our basic view on air cargo hasn’t changed where we developed opportunities to act upon.
Since the start of the third quarter we sold three freighters and signed an agreement to sell fourth in January.
Most of the financial impact of these sales was already incorporated in our second quarter results.
As part of our annual fleet review we completed during the third quarter we're now planning to scrap the six older 747 converted freighters remaining in our fleet as our leases expire over the next 30 months.
For these specific aircraft we also reduced our cash flow estimates to reflect lower usage and determine we make no further investments to enable future leases.
This will leave us with the freighter fleet consisting of just five factory build freighters lease to good customers and with an average age around eight years.
I expect these remaining aircrafts will count for well below 10% of our overall fleet value and play much less important part of our business as we continue to rebalance and reshape our portfolio.
I’d now like to discuss Aircastle's performance during the third quarter of 2015 our perspective on the business environment what it means to our company and finally our longer term outlook.
Mike will then cover Aircastle's financial results and then we’ll open it up to Q&amp;A.
The impairments I just discussed notwithstanding our financial results were quite good.
During Q3 we earned $52 million or $0.64 per share if we exclude the MAS repossession and the fleet review charges.
Our cash ROE has remained high and came in at 14.5% on a 12-month trailing basis.
These financial results were driven by strong operating cash flows and performance including 99.9% fleet utilization.
We have been derisking our business through lease management as well as to combine the effects of our investments and sales.
To that end we pushed out the average remaining lease term of our fleet to nearly six years further contributing the stability of our revenues.
Despite very competitive conditions we've been able to source attractive new investments and through Q3 we closed on $1 billion in new acquisitions.
We expect to close another $200 million in purchases before the year is over.
Nearly all of our investments this year have been for narrow bodies and the average of the acquisitions we've made has been four years.
In contrast our sales are centered on older aircraft where investor demand has been particularly strong.
The average age of the aircraft we sold during the first three quarters has been 15 years and the net pretax impact from these sales has been more than $38 million with strong contributions for both narrow and wide body aircraft.
We continue to be active sellers.
Our strong operating cash flow performance the meaningful improvement in the quality of our assets and the distinct and valuable strategic position of our franchise let our Board to increase our quarterly dividend $0.24 per share.
This is our 38th consecutive dividend and it demonstrates our commitment to deploying our capital and the balance in shareholder friendly way.
Now a few words about the business environment.
Despite growing geopolitical headwinds global air traffic continues to increase steadily at roughly twice straight of global GDP growth.
However as we head into the slower winter season we're mindful of market soft spots and have taken a more cautious approach to imaging the company.
Lease demand for narrow body aircraft remains healthy and rents for current generation models are stable.
However we see rents on new generation aircraft at lower than previously anticipated levels which we believe is largely attributable to expectations that fuel prices will remain low for some time.
We’ve been focusing unlocking in new leases earlier on to take advantage of the good terms currently available.
Demand for wide body aircraft is certainly weaker.
This is not a new phenomenon and we’ve been discussing it for several quarters.
However it appears to be worsening a bit as more aircrafts are coming into the market while demand much of which has been centered in Asia is waning.
Nonetheless we continue to be successful in placing wide body aircraft on new leases on terms we considered to be reasonable albeit at the lower end of our original expectations.
In fact we’ve only one remaining wide body coming off lease next year and I think we’re pretty close to securing lease commitment for it.
In regional aircraft space U.S.
majors are expressing interest in upgrading and we believe this could serve as a catalyst for the 100 plus seat market.
In that regard we’re pleased with the interest we're seeing in our E2s which look increasingly like the category leading aircraft.
I believe we’re close to our first placement which would be with an existing e-jet operator.
Turning to financing capital markets conditions got a little choppier during August and September as concerns about a slowing Chinese economy and declining energy and commodity prices weighed on debt markets.
Since then debt markets have -- debt market conditions have stabilized.
However this temporary volatility proved to be quite beneficial for us.
We saw an uptake in our acquisition activity with lessors as more than saw the value in the execution certainty we can provide.
Aircraft prices continue to rise for most types as investor demand continues to surge.
We’re seeing many yield driven players who are not traditional aircraft investors entering our market.
Moreover many of the more established leasing companies continue to seek our growth opportunities very aggressively.
In short it’s a very competitive market.
Aircastle is a unique player with a well proving disciplined and differentiated approach.
We’re the only large value investors in the space and the only major permanently capitalized company that retains a flexible and countercyclical approach to investing.
We continue to be a best-in-class asset manager built to handle both the opportunities and adversities that inevitably arise from time to time.
As other large leasing companies begin to look and act more alike our strategic position is improving as I believe we occupy an essential growing and profitable role in the market.
As we take a step back and take at our industry there appears to be increasing momentum for change and for consolidation.
Some of this maybe driven by the desire by some for sheer size while others look for exits and strategic repositioning.
Others still might be motivated by needs to enhance their capabilities.
In any cases we look at the large leasing companies there is lot of change and we intend to pursue opportunity to enhance shareholder's value.
We remain intent on maintaining the long term growth trajectory but continue to be selective investors focused on less competitive value add situations to play to our strength while tapping into our large base of industry relationships around the world.
In today’s market that means being particularly discerning given the intense competition.
We also intend to continue ceasing on attractive opportunities to enhance our portfolio and profitability through asset sales.
We’re pleased with the way our bonds traded during the last episode of market volatility and remain focused on making progress towards achieving investment grade credit ratings.
We grow prudently manage our future capital commitments carefully and made great strides in enhancing our portfolio of quality.
It’s difficult to put a timeline on this but I believe we’re on the right path.
Finally as we just demonstrated through our most recent dividend increase Aircastle remains firmly committed to assured and balanced allocation of capital.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike.
Thanks Ron our core results during the third quarter 2015 were quite strong.
Our net loss of $14 million or $0.17 per share included a $66 million earnings impact from the MAS bankruptcy and the converted freighter exits.
Without these our net income was $52 million or $0.64 per share.
Our profitability and return on capital continue to improve as we de-risk the portfolio.
As Ron mentioned our LTM cash ROE was 14.5%.
With the exception of the MAS aircraft we've completed our lease placements for 2015.
For 2016 we’ve just four aircraft remaining to place representing about 1.8% of the total fleet net book value.
Two of these are current generation narrow bodies.
One is an older freight that we expect to scrap at lease end and one is a mid aged A330 where we believe we’re pretty close to securing the next lease commitment.
This progress reflects our focus on locking in strongly lease rental levels currently available.
The portfolio continues to perform very well with 99.9% utilization levels and very low customer receivables.
During the first nine months of 2015 we closed 32 aircraft investments of which 31 were current technology narrow body for approximately $1 billion.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we expect to acquire five more narrow body aircrafts bringing the total for the year to 37 aircraft for about $1.2 billion.
We continue to be disciplined buyers focusing on situations where we are value added entail less competition and play to our company’s strength.
Turning to our results lease rental and finance lease revenues for the quarter were $189.9 million up 5.3% over prior year.
The increase is driven by higher revenues from acquired aircraft partially offset by aircraft sold and lease terminations.
Over the past year we’ve continued to rebalance the fleet mix and upgrade the portfolio’s assets and credit quality.
We've been focused on generating high quality longer term contracted revenues off a lower risk portfolio.
Total revenues for the quarter were $212.1 million up $34.5 million or 19.4% from the prior year primarily driven by higher maintenance revenue of $19.9 million higher lease and finance lease revenues of $9.6 million.
Other revenues also increased $6 million to $8.6 million primarily due to termination fees associated with the disposition of our last three MD11 freighters.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $216.3 million versus $177.4 million for the prior year.
Total revenues increased $34.5 million and gains from the sale of flight equipment were up $4.3 million.
In connection with our annual fleet revenue and as part of our strategy to accelerate our exit from older freighters we decided to scrap our last six remaining 747 converted freighters when their current leases expire.
This resulted in a $34.6 million impairment charge and additional depreciation of about $2 million during the third quarter.
These expenses were partly offset by $6 million of maintenance and other revenue associated with the impaired aircraft.
As Ron mentioned during the quarter we also impaired our only 777-200ER in our fleet which is previously on lease with MAS.
This impairment totaled $37.8 million and was partly offset by $1.2 million in security deposits.
At MAS on the terms of their lease with us we would have collected an additional $18 million in rent over the remaining lease term and another $25 million in estimated lease end return compensation.
Our net loss for Q3 was $14 million versus net income of $19.2 million in the third quarter of ’14.
Higher total revenues were mostly offset by higher non-cash impairment charges of $58 million and higher depreciation charges of $9.8 million.
Interest expense for the quarter was $60.4 million an increase of $3.6 million over the prior year due primarily to higher weighted average debt balance of approximately $400 million versus the prior year period.
Depreciation was up $9.8 million to $85.3 million for the quarter due to accelerated depreciation on our MD11 freighter exist additional depreciation from the fleet review and a net increase in fleet size.
The net book value of the aircraft portfolio rose to $6 billion at the end of quarter up from $5.3 billion at the end of September 2014.
I should point out here that the accelerated depreciation associated with the six remaining converted freighters that we wrote down will result in about $11 million of additional depreciation in 2016.
We're having another strong year in aircraft sales.
To the first three quarters we sold 20 aircraft for proceeds of approximately $343 million including eight aircraft during the third quarter.
Pretax profits from aircraft sales totaled $15.7 million for the quarter and $43 million year-to-date and we've been capitalizing on strong investor interest in older aircrafts stimulated in part by low oil prices.
To that end the weighted average age at the aircraft we sold during the quarter was approximately 15 years and since the end of third quarter we sold several additional aircrafts including an older A330 our last 767 and a 747 converted freighter.
Our third quarter tax provision was $2.7 million with an effective tax rate of 15.3% on year-to-date basis we expect the full year effective rate to be in the 13% to 14% range.
At the end of the third quarter we owned a 160 aircraft leased to 51 customers located in 32 countries.
Of these 109 aircrafts were unencumbered and had a net book value of approximately $3.7 billion or about 62% of our total fleet.
Net book value of our flight equipment has grown at a compound rate of roughly 9% per annum since the end of 2010 while our unencumbered fleet has increased at a rate of 47% over that same period.
The increase in unencumbered asset enhances our liquidity position and strengthens our overall credit profile.
Cash ROE on an LTM basis was very strong at 14.5%.
Cash flow from operations over the past 12 months a little over $500 and 6% higher than the prior 12 month period.
This increase in sustainable cash flow enhances our ability to return capital to our shareholders through dividends.
For the third quarter our portfolio of lease rental yield was 12.7% up modestly sequentially from 12.6% from Q2.
We've seen a modest decline in lease rental yields versus our historical averages.
This reflects one a dropping our fleet's weighted average age to 7.7 years from 8.6 years only a year ago and an increase in the weighted average remaining lease term to 5.9 years up from five years a year earlier.
The net cash interest module was 9.2% slightly up sequentially from the second quarter's 9.1%.
At the end of the third quarter we had $149 million of unrestricted cash and $550 million of undrawn liquidity on our unsecured revolver providing us with ample liquidity act on new investment opportunities.
Total borrowings at quarter end were $4 billion including $2.7 billion of unsecured debt.
The weighted average coupon on our debt was 4.93% tat the end of the quarter versus 4.69% at the end of 2014 the increase driven by higher percentage of unsecured debt.
The weighted average remaining life of over debt at September 32 2015 was approximately 4.2 years.
The proceeds from our asset sales together with our strong operating cash flows have reduced our financing needs for new acquisitions in this current environment.
At the end of our quarter the net debt to equity ratio was approximately 2.2 times.
We remain committed to allocating capital efficiently between value enhancing investments and returning capital to shareholders.
Towards that end our Board approved the $0.24 per share common dividend for the fourth quarter payable on December 15 which represents a 9% increase over the previous level.
By way of comparison our fleet increased approximately 13% from the prior period 2014.
Now paid out a total of $589 million in dividends since going public demonstrating the important role dividends have played as part of our capital allocation strategy.
Finally turning to Q4 guidance as usual we've included certain elements in the fourth quarter of 2015 in our earnings release and PowerPoint that was posted earlier this morning.
Our lease rental revenue guidance reflects asset sales completed during the third quarter as well as additional dispositions we expect to complete by yearend and is also impacted to the tune of about $2 million per quarter related to the MAS lease termination.
So to summarize we ended the third quarter with a solid core performance.
We have strong momentum heading towards the end of the year.
We remain focused on increasing earnings producing strong cash ROE and delivering sustainable operating cash flows.
We continue to successfully execute our disciplined growth strategy proactively manage the portfolio of aircraft and deliver strong total returns for shareholders for the long term.
And with that operator we’re happy to open up the call for Q&amp;A Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go first today to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you operator and good morning gentleman.
Hi Gary.
Ron in the last 10-Q you identified there were four aircrafts that you considered at higher risk for failing the recoverability test and today you're taking an impairment on six aircrafts.
I want to know what’s changed and also if you can give a little more color on your comments about the age limits that you're seeing and why we should be concerned that there could be more impairments on the wide body side on the freighter side as a result of that? Okay.
The answer to the first part the monitoring list that we has last quarter consisted entirely of freighters including some that we sold.
And the list is now mostly of freighters.
All the freighters on the list are the ones we've written down and expected to scrap at the end of their current leases.
There are a couple of narrow bodies and they're including 1757 and older 737-800 I feel pretty good about those.
Comments about the age limits age limits are not a new phenomenon but there’re a couple of newly introduced age limits that kind of caught our attention and they came into play as we think about 777-200ER.
One of them for example is in Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia is now putting in place a 20 year age limit on passenger aircraft and 25 for freight and for older white bodies a great place to buy aircrafts would be in a charter market particularly for the Hajj and the Umrah.
So that is a factor.
It’s not the only thing in the world that that’s important but it is an illustration.
As we look at our particular 777 it’s 17 years old and it’s not an age like I said during the remarks where you expect to put it down but for an aircraft of this type and I would note also that 777 200ER has very little liquidity very few transactions on this aircraft type over time.
It's kind of stayed with the existing operators for -- since inception for the most part.
We're having to gauge in a market that has very few data points whether we want to put a lot of money into these aircrafts to put them back on lease and if we're looking at only a three-year redeployment period it’s a harder case to make.
So I am not giving up on placing the aircraft but we decided to take a more prudent approach in terms of our accounting right down.
Okay thanks Ron.
And Mike on the Q4 guidance your midpoint for the lease revenue of $180 million that’s down $8 million from Q3 and it looks like on a net basis the portfolio is still growing a little bit.
What is that headwind into Q4? As I said Gary it reflect assets sales from the third quarter a fair of bit which occurred late in the third quarter.
So you had third quarter lease revenue and then you had asset sales and we do expect a fair bit of selling also here in the fourth quarter.
Right but you're also expecting to add assets in the fourth quarter correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Richa Talwar with Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Hi everyone.
So first ask I wanted to get a quick housekeeping question out of the way.
The 777 200ER previously with Malaysia that you took the $37.8 million right off charge for.
Can you tell us what the new book value for the aircraft is? Just trying to get sense of what you're ascribing as a fair market value for 17 year old 777 200ER.
Richa we don’t get into specific book values for aircraft.
Well say for the right down is that we're assuming a scrap and when you look at appraised values most appraised values look at a continued redeployment of an aircraft and those values are naturally higher.
And as I said before we haven't made a decision to not release the aircraft but we don’t have enough data points or confidence with this aircraft type to make that determination.
Okay fair enough and then sticking to that asset for a minute the $43 million you were scheduled to receive from the bankrupt airline.
What are the chances you're made hold on that.
I know you commented on this Ron but I am hoping you could elaborated what the Malaysian Airline tongue you or the government tongue what are the odds that you actually get that money.
I prefer not to comment on an ongoing situation like that Richa.
In general bankruptcies have a very mixed record in terms of collectability bur our job is to do our best to recovery our losses and to maintain our position.
Okay and then finally just wanted to ask you about the wide body market broadly.
There were some pretty controversial comment made about the wide-body market in the past two week and on your last earnings call Ron you talk about softness in the states and as you said you talked about it for a few quarter.
But it would be helpful to hear your thought specifically in response to some of those values that was drawn out there by Delta and on a related note I thought you could offer an especially helpful perspective considering that I believe you have one 777 lease expiring in 2017 and two each of the following areas 2018 and 2019.
So if you could tell us A what airlines those aircrafts are with and B if you started marketing them already what the market perception has been on the other planes that would be really helpful.
Well some of the market commentary is involved.
Numbers that don’t comport with close to comporting with our view of reality and as I mentioned during our remarks and you'll see in our filings we've been successful in selling older wide-bodies.
We've been successful leasing older wide bodies and I think there has been an exaggerated sense of history over that in the market.
It is weak but markets tends to ebb and flow and I think the fact that we've been able to continually trade in aircraft is demonstration of that.
We have a 777 300ER that's coming off lease in '17.
We are remarketing it.
We feel good about it.
It’s a distinctly different market than the 777 200ER.
It does very different things.
There is a good opportunity set for us and I feel very comfortable with that aircraft as well as the two that are coming in each of the following years.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Nathan Hong with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
It seems like the cargo environment is still tough and obviously the impairments taken this quarter were related to converter freighters but are you seeing some of this weakness kind of translate into other freighter assets? I am wondering if you could give us some color here maybe what you're seeing in the market place but obviously just based on what you guys plan to hold maybe the newer factory built 400s are doing relatively better but maybe if you could give us some color mainly the 777 or even the 800s that would be helpful.
I think the comments about the freight market cut across the market tweak and the most marginal capacity is the older aircraft the converted aircraft that were not build to suit and therefore less efficient.
Naturally those are the ones that are most at risk and there has been a large wave of retirements for these aircraft and as those things happen its healthy for everything that's left over.
It remains to be seen how the freight market demand picture evolves over time.
There have been some structural shifts there which have been helpful but it's also important to remember that the aggregate level of demand hasn’t dropped.
It has been about steady just hasn’t grown.
The basic problem in this sector is one of supply and the supply comes from the production of new freighters and from the belly space in the wide-bodies are being produced.
The wide body production is going up.
That’s a headwind that will persist and as far as the new freighters go I think the 777 is a wonderful aircraft that's sold for $30 million to $40 million more than a comparable passenger aircraft and when that first lease is over it will be worth a lot less than a comparable passenger aircraft and so we're not finding value there.
And the 747-8 might be an interesting niche aircraft but not one that suits well for a lessor that’s looking for a border operator base.
Bottom line is I don’t think the freight market is dead.
I think the freight market is over supplied with the right asset and with the right position we should be fine.
That’s helpful.
I am wondering if you could give us an update here on you capital allocation policy.
I did see the raise in the dividends but I don’t recall any meaningful share repurchase and maybe the last couple of years but we did see the stock dip a bit here.
So I am just wondering if you could give an updated thoughts on buybacks.
Look buybacks are part of our tactical allocation of capital.
We've done it over time.
We haven’t done it recently.
It’s something we look at on a regular basis and to the extent we think we can growth the business and the enterprise value with investing incremental assets we will continue to do that.
When we don’t feel like that’s out there we will look at stock buybacks more seriously.
Great.
That’s helpful.
Thank you for the time.
We will go next to Jamie Baker with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning guys.
This is Nish Mani on for Jamie.
I’m wondering if I can get some comments on the narrow body market.
You've obviously talked about how you're seeing pockets of weakness amongst the wide body market particularly on 777 200ER but you guys continue to reinvest in the narrow body segment so any kind of incremental commentary you could provide on lease rates and market preference for assets it would be very helpful there.
I think the simple way to put it is I said during my prepared remarks is that that part of the market remains healthy.
We have seen pockets of weakness around the world that also covered narrow bodies.
Let's talk about Russia for example.
Trans Air the second biggest airline there is going through a wind down and there are larger number of narrow bodies that are being put in play from that and from other Russian Airlines and they're being absorbed recently well by the market.
So I am relatively optimistic about the conditions.
Having said that our view has been and we have been acting on it to seize the moment and lock in the good rental rates.
And if there is any discussion among the OEM to take production rates up in the narrow body segment particularly the 320 and 737 do you think that would have an adverse impact on second hand asset values and is there kind of backup plan for you guys in terms of preserving asset value at the company.
I think it will have an even bigger adverse impact on newer craft values.
We are concerned about the production levels going up that much.
We have been concerned for some time.
It’s not a new comment on our part.
I think the reluctance on our part to have an order stream is reflection of that.
But when you look at the current market and you look at fuel prices where they are and see how rents and price performances have been trending the current generation aircraft are doing just fine and I expect that we will be in a good position with us.
Okay.
Great that’s very helpful guys.
Thank you so much for the time.
Justine Fisher with Goldman Sachs has our next question.
Good morning.
How are you doing? Hi Justine.
The first question I had is going back to the wide-body market and I was just wondering if you guys could comment on any differences you're seeing between the 777 and 330s.
I think most of the recent commentary has focused on the 777 market in particular given the 777X and then Boeing hasn’t cut production yet.
So are you seeing a divergence based on -- a divergence between 777 and 330 given the different dynamics there.
There has always been a big difference between these aircraft Justin and it's just because it’s a 777 doesn’t mean it is the same.
So let's start with -- I would ask members to mute.
The A330s have a customer base that's twice as big as the 777s to begin with and they've demonstrated liquidity.
We've traded and leased A330s repeatedly over the years and feel very comfortable with those aircraft types.
I’d also add that there is a world of difference between the 777 200ER and a 777 300ER.
The average age of 777 300ER is only around five years.
And so it’s too early to kind of see much movement in those aircraft.
I believe that that market the base 777 300ER is far more robust and interesting than that for the 200ER.
The 200ER been sub-planted by a number of other technologies and aircraft models and I don’t think that future is quite as bright.
Do you expect -- if we do see weakness in the 777 based on some of the specific related to production etcetera do you expect to spill over or is the market that bifurcated that lower leases to 777 don’t put some pressure on A330s.
If we expect a certain percent decline from 777 should we expect a decline less over 330s or are they really just that separate.
They're very different aircrafts in different markets there is some overlap between these models to be sure Justine but I think it’s a gross exaggeration say the 777 200ER market is weak.
So therefore everything else must be weak.
They all have their own characteristics and like I said the 200ER is probably the weak point in the market as far as that generation and I feel far more optimistic about the rest of the group.
Okay great.
And then just a question on acquisition I feel like this question gets asked to every lessor on every conference call but given that there have been fleets more recently they have been put up for sale and given the transformative nature of what ILFC was for Aircap -- some people and sometimes Aircastle's was not focused on having an order stream and focused on as you guys said being value added and being able to buy on one off basis with your available cash.
But acquiring a large portfolio would clearly be transformative.
May be that’s helps with I&amp;G rating.
Is that something you guys are will be willing to do.
At the right price we would.
If it's not right price we won’t.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
We'll go next to [Aaron] [ph] with DA Davidson.
Thanks.
At the risk of beating the horse can you maybe talk a little bit about the differences between the A330 200 and the A330 300 because you have quite of few on those aircrafts between the two of them is the demand for either of those variance weaker or stronger.
And you have talked about being able to trade in and out of those fairly successful years.
Can you talk about the risk related to A330s you have in the portfolio.
I don’t know how much ground I am going to break here the A330 200 is a smaller and longer range variant of the 330 300.
They're both fabulous aircraft.
The 330 200 is probably not as much in demand today as it was say three or four years relatively to 300 but market shifts can evolve.
At the moment we have only one 330 200 as I mentioned that's coming off lease in the next year or so and as I think we've mentioned we're pretty close to getting that placed.
I think these aircrafts are still incredibly cost competitive and incredibly relevant and I think the low fuel price environment makes them even more so than they had been maybe a year and a half ago.
So we're still optimistic about these holding their value in the long run and we're long term investors.
We intend to hold aircraft at least that's how we underwrite things and when markets ebb and flow we remain patient and calm and do our best job in terms of managing them.
Thanks and then just I guess on the -- I think you mentioned your five narrow bodies you're purchasing in the fourth quarter it seems like those would be pretty newer aged aircrafts.
Do you have any average age of those aircrafts? I think it's consistent with what we've been buying this year and that’s as much as I'll say.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Our next question comes from Christopher Nolan with FBR and Company.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Do you guys have any 777-200s in the fleet? No.
Great.
And then back to excuse me I thought I heard in your prepared comments Ron that you were indicating that lease rates for new generation aircraft now I presume narrow body were weaker than expected.
Is that a correct read on or did I mishear it? I was referring to A320 Neo's and 777 Max is primarily the former because those are actually entering the market very shortly and this reflects current market placement economics and it’s a very simple explanation when these aircrafts were first introduced a few years ago still it was twice the price it is today.
And they are certainly more expensive aircraft and that price difference made a lot more sense if you could get a lot more in the way of a rental premium versus current technology.
Our observation is based purely on basic operating cost differences when you monetize them.
So shouldn’t come as any surprise.
Okay.
So when you say it’s weaker can you quantify is it 5% lower than you think 10% anything along those lines.
Here is like a way to think about an A320 the dimension in dollar terms.
Two years ago when fuel was around $3 a gallon the operating cost savings that the Neo offered over a CEO was probably in the $700 000 to $800 000 a year range.
All right now let's cut the rent the fuel price assumption in half and so therefore the operating cost benefit also drops to half of that.
If you make that into a monthly number that’s what you should expect the premium should be at best versus the current technology aircraft.
It’s not unique to the Neo.
It flows through the narrow body.
It flows through the wide bodies and it’s a reflection of an environment where more and more airlines are expecting fuel to persist at the levels they are today.
Final question in your comments talking about industry consolidation does that reflect your view that we’re going to see a wave of consolidation within the industry in general particularly among the smaller players? This is a hard part to predict because we’ve been talking about this for years and in the last year or so there has been two big deals maybe we're on the cusp of a third.
But what I had observed is when you look at the top 10 leasing companies right now there is a lot of change going on and all these things could give rise to something.
For example Avalon Avalon is in the process of being acquired by a Chinese company.
CIT just announced that aircraft leasing business is exploring strategic alternatives for that.
We’re seeing Awas for sale.
GECAS just replaced its leader and Bank of China announced that it's going to take it’s aviation group and put it on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
These are all pretty big deals.
It's all happened in a fairly short timeframe.
I can’t tell you whether anything specific will happen but it definitely worth paying attention to.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Sure.
We’ll go next to Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey guys good morning Good morning In 2012 you guys have taken a $96 million aircraft impairment charge and then if you look at 2013 its $117 million and 2014 its $94 million and this quarter it’s $72 million.
So generally speaking do you think there should be a change in your assumed depreciation schedule for you would prevent a lot of these aircraft imperilment charges? We've also taken close to $200 million in gains and most of the imperilments that we've taken are related to freighters.
Freighter market has been going through a shift and in structure and in circumstance and we believe our accounting policy is appropriate if not conservative.
And so then can you quantify the remaining freighter in your fleet.
How much more is there a risk to write-down or is this all that you've taken and there is nothing left to take? We still have a book value of our fighter fleet and you can assume the extreme and say that all this true for at risk but I think we’ve done what we believe is prudent and appropriate.
Okay great.
And Ron during a bankruptcy restructuring how does an airline decide which leases to keep or reject? Is there a seniority of some sort among the less stores of which lease contracts have seniority.
And then going forward do you have a provision or anything like that to account for something like a lease rejection occurring.
Well there is not a cook book to this.
Each airline has its own particular business plan and approach and strategies for managing lessors very widely.
I don’t think there is much more to say about that.
It starts with is the aircraft core to its fleet? We went through lots of restructurings in U.S.
where some aircraft were absolutely devastating and some people some aircraft were untouched.
Each one of these things has to be looked at in isolation and for that reason it’s hard to just say I’m going to take a provision of that.
Sure.
And final question from me can you talk about the financial health of your airline customers and how many airlines do you have currently in your watch list and how many airplanes could be at risk within that watch list.
The financial health of our airlines is actually been about as good as it can be and our watch list is quite small.
That’s not to say that things don’t go unchanged.
A year or two years ago it was not on our watch list and they experienced two tragedies in short order.
The situations with MAS was not one which I think anybody could have foreseen and that’s the nature of investing in transactions involving airlines.
Great thank you.
We’ll go next to Michael Kass with BlueMountain Capital.
Hi and thanks for taking my question.
Actually I was just curious regarding -- I know you're not giving formal guidance for 2016 but just curious if you could provide some color on what your kind of thoughts are with respect to capital spending.
Just given I know you guys have been focused on growing the asset base and the credit and positive implications of that versus it does seem as though the market is becoming more competitive and where you guys want to play is becoming narrow or so I was just curious on your overall outlook -- we expect CapEx to be upper down next year.
Really hard to say.
When we started out the year this year just to put in perspective we kind of assumed about a $1 billion as a target for acquisitions and we far exceeded that.
The part that we exceeded by an even bigger margin is the asset sales part.
We assumed roughly $250 million and we’re well through that already through the third quarter and as Mike alluded to we have got a lot going on in Q4.
As we look at 2016 it’s an incredibly fluid market I don’t think it’s an unreasonable place to expect us to be a $1 billion but that's just a placeholder and we use a number of economic streams to raising our capital.
We've consistently used a 15% economic ROE to judge whether or not we want to buy something and I think that generally still holds and so if the market offers good opportunities as we saw from time to time during the course of this year we will continue to do that.
I’ve been impressed by the strengths of the sales market and if there is one thing that I learned in the 25 years in the businesses is when the opportunities present themselves you should seize them.
We run the business with a long-term growth trajectory in mind but the mark-to-market moves up and down all the time and that's actually the hallmark of being a valued investor and I think it’s one of the things that sets us apart.
Got you.
And then I was wondering is it possible to get an update on you guys have I guess previously provided the kind of percent by book value of your aircraft that are coming off lease going forward given the sale activity and the acquisition activity it's very hard to kind of track that over the course of the year.
I was wondering if you might just be able to say I think you mentioned four aircrafts next year but I was just wondering kind of if you had -- if you could just provide some color on what the cadence of that is over the next few years? Look that data will be in the 10-Q that we expect to file later today.
We talked on the call today about next year we have less than 2% of net book value to place and in to rollout over the next three or four years will be in our Q in the MD&amp;A section as it always is.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our next question from [Renovia] [ph] with CPT Global.
[Shipra Global] [ph].
Thank you very much operator.
Good morning everyone.
I apologize I was cut off for two or three minutes.
So.
hopefully somebody has announced a same question but if I understand you number correctly in this quarter you took a $6.1 million aircraft impairment charge which was not related to the 747 and to Malaysian Airline.
What does $6.1 million reflect? I was at least restructuring with another aircraft and we had roughly $7 million of offsetting maintenance revenue in connection with that aircraft.
Can you tell the nature or which aircraft it was? No its no I’m not get into those specifics here.
Fair enough.
Ron a couple of questions.
One a look at as I was listening to the conference call and updating my models so I looked at geographical composition it changed quite dramatically over the last two or three years and in particularly when I look at the top four countries there's a lot of rumors or there's a lot of news coming out of Brazil seems like it's like a fairly challenged situation there.
So you guys made a fairly large investment recently.
Would you care to comment a little bit what you see there and what do you take of that situation.
Sure Reno Brazil is certainly going through economic difficulties and I have been covering Brazil through a couple different roles over the years and what I would say about the Brazilian market today is vastly different than it was say ten years ago.
The airlines are generally well run they’re publically listed.
So you have some financial transparency and our big customers are I think are in actually reasonably good shape considering the circumstances.
Our single biggest customer in the company is a LATAM.
LATAM is a solid well run financial responsible airline.
They’ve got a great market franchise and what I think you should take away is that the big players in Brazil are acting as you would expect into a market contractions or reducing capacity and taking prudent steps.
So it’s a big change versus times past.
Of course we're cautious and of course we are careful about the way in which we deploy our capacity in Brazil or anywhere else to that matter but what signifies this industry is that things have been flow constantly over time.
And as I said we try to take a sober look at what’s going on.
If we don’t think the situation is going to work out as we took a view on in Russia we act on it and if we think it’s a matter of just working through then we stay around we work with our customers.
Thank you Ron.
And my last question.
When I look at page 9 if I understand and you guys are very opportunistically on the market both with respect to acquisition and divestiture.
If you look at the numbers the trends are very clear right.
Your fleet age is going down from 11.3 to 7.7 and annual average lease terms has taken the opposite pat going up for 4.6 to 5.9 years.
I'm just wondering is there a target in mind there is there an ideal mix ideal number are you looking at something like that or it just coincidence of the market opportunity that presented to you over the last three or four years.
I don’t think there is an ideal let me comment first on the average remaining lease term.
Our job is a manager a steward of the through is to understand that there is cyclical element to our business and when times are good it’s good to walk-in strong conditions strong market terms and were times are bad you don’t want to lock in and you can't turn to keep the incremental lease term short.
I think this is a good time and we’ve been behaving accordingly.
As far as age we don’t manage through an age.
This is one of the things that distinguishes us.
I don’t think age is an investment criteria and per se.
It doesn’t tell you anything about how much money you can make on the aircraft and in fact we for a long time as spouse of you that last off the line aircraft even if they may be new will be economically depreciating faster than aircraft made and an earlier part of the production life.
So for us it's all question of finding value and in this environment we see there being good value in the newer narrow body aircraft and then several years ago when the 777 sorry the 787 was delayed and when there were issues with the 350 we found it to be good value to that particular movement for wide bodies and we will adjust our fleet mix and our investment targeting based on where we see value and do so consistently.
Thank you very much Ron.
Sure.
We'll go next to Gary Liebowitz with Wells Fargo Securities.
Yes thanks.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
One is you reported 99.9% utilization but you weren’t getting paid on a wide body for three months.
How do you compute 99.9%? It was part of a month and that was the only aircraft.
So does only one partial month where you weren’t getting paid? We get paid rents in advance.
Okay.
That's fine.
Also Ron just to clarify your comments about the lease rate premiums not being there for the Neo because of downturn in fuel prices why weren’t that extend to the E2? The E2s are an entirely different market.
First of all the underwriting assumption that we made for the E2 was that fuel prices that we see today would persist.
Okay.
So the expectation we had in the first place was of something that was underwritten on the current fuel environment as we see it.
With the E2s you have a very different aircraft type particularly E2 195 that seats about 15 more people and can file up farther and it doesn’t do the same things that the current E1 does.
So there is a product differentiation story there.
Okay.
And just on the E2 is there a geographic region that's showing greater interest than we might expect? No it's pretty wide spread and as we expected the best demand is from the installed E1 base which is about 70 airlines.
So we have a lot of places to being with.
The transition from an E1 to E2 operationally isn’t that hard and it's a pretty broad spread wide spread base of interest let's say.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Christopher Nolan with FBR and Company.
Well in your comments in terms of the late production of the current generation having a lower value and given that you guys are opportunistic acquirers is there any value you see in the strategy of possibly capitalizing if Boeing has a production gap for the 737 current generation and before the Max basically capitalizing on that? We had discussions with Boeing and for that matter with Airbus all the time and we've discussed with them opportunities in a rising market whether it's related to Russia or otherwise and we'll continue to do so.
So far we haven't hit on any but we're open minded but we reflect all of our biases in the price expectations and I think that speaks for itself.
And just quick follow-up for Avalon do you think -- how much of the premium you think Avalon got was because of its order book which was fairly large and what do you think that is a strategy with the market is more willing to pay up right now for the order book as opposed to the operations as a leasing.
What's your view on that? I think you should ask H&amp;A Group or Bohai Leasing how they developed their price expectation.
I can't say and I think as far as the market goes there are certainly buyer preferences for certain configurations of aircraft and so be it.
We manage the company the best way we see fit and that all I can say.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure.
With no additional questions in the queue at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Constantinople for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you for your time.
If you have any follow-up questions feel free to call me 203-504-1063.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.