would you guys be able to give us the productivity savings in that 10 billion either every quarter or every year.
So I think that’s kind of important thing to track.
And then my main question is so I guess about 32% of the portfolio had market share flat or up in the quarter which obviously was nice little uptick in June.
Can you give us that metrics for the U.S.
and then tell us what the U.S.
growth was and sort of leaving the quarter first Bill on tracking the 10 billion of course we will definitely do that.
It will probably be more of annual or every six month report back as appose to every quarter but we will definitely do that.
And you can imagine we are doing that internally it's part of our performance metrics.
So we should have that ability.
Bob we said that market share was about 33% one-third for the quarter but ticked up to about 45% over the last month tax rate for next year think of kind of 25 to 26%.
And as I mentioned in my remarks we currently see commodities up modestly so flat to up probably less than $100 million next year.
Relative to top line sales growth versus the quarter we just completed we will have less pricing -benefit as we start to annualize some of the price increases that we have taken.
So that's the primary reason you are seeing that deceleration and then as we go through the year and the 40-20-10 plans are fully implemented we will start to see stronger momentum in out period.
It's not we go from zero to 2 to 3 to 4 I think it's important to understand how our GBUs are organized.
We are really organized as regional business units that report up to a global head and so we try to maintain that presence at a regional level.
And in terms of making sure that everybody run to the same side of the boat we have very specific portfolio roles for geographies both top and bottom-line John it’s important to know that the whole focus on the 40-20-10 plan is about making sure we invest and resource our business where it matters most.
And that is what a GBU President does and then of course there's oversight by the Vice Chairman of GBUs Dimitri Panayotopoulos and Jon and I as we meet with the GBU presidents.
So in terms of a pendulum from one side to the other or exploiting one geography or another Lauren.
It still is strategic for us to have a full vertical portfolio of offerings in every category.
So that is part of our strategic plan and it is part of our innovation program.
So for example in laundry in the United States you would go from Tide TOTALCARE or Tide PODS on the high end.
Tide TOTALCARE being priced about 160 versus average Tide down to Gain at maybe 85 index or Era at 65 index in pricing versus average Tide.
So the same would be true for example in Skin Care with Olay you can buy a product for as much as $6 or you can buy a professional product for as much as $45.
So Lauren in the mid-tier Nik to grow the categories for exactly the reason you said.
Our retail partners if you look at the Advantage Survey or the Cannondale Study they recognize us having a comparative advantage versus our competition for growing category sales.
So something like Tide PODS for example which is the most concentrated form of laundry detergent you can buy.
Because of that concentration it grows the category.
And since we've launched Tide PODS we've not only grown the share of Tide and grown the share of our laundry category but we've also significantly increased category growth.
Another example would be the Febreze car strip which is a new kind of air freshener in the auto category which has grown the category substantially.
When we innovate when we introduce new items when we improve the items that are in the market back to CAGNY Nik we showed a couple of slides about our philosophy on developing markets and how it's all about category growth as a much more important component of overall growth.
And that continues to be what we're seeing as well as we bring innovation into developing markets Wendy.
The top 40 top 20 top 10 process while encompassing or comprising 50% of our sales and 70% of our profit there is no intention to just simply disregard the rest of the business.
And when you include the top 40 then you include the top 10 developing markets you've got a pretty good swath of our business.
In comparison to the program you talked about with AG which is really big customers big brands big countries.
It’s the same approach which is to make sure we focus on where our business matters most and that’s what we’re doing.<br><br>In terms of profitability of customers there's really not a difference by customer.
What you really see if anything is a difference by channel.
But we treat the customers the same and support consistent with Robinson-Patman Act and support them consistent with our innovations.
In fact right now if you went into virtually any store in the United States Joe we've taken a number of steps.
One is we've created a new business creation organization call it NBC reporting to Dimitri the Vice Chairman of GBUs and also with the lot of oversight from my myself.
And the whole idea there is to have people working on innovating in the seams in places that would fall between the organization boundaries.
So for example a product like Swiffer would involve chemistry would involve paper technology would involve apparatus technology.
No single GBU would develop that.
It falls between the seams so we need people working on that.
Secondly we put an experienced Group President in charge of that organization.
It's Jorge Mesquita.
Jorge has a track record of having developed a number of discontinuous innovations.
When he worked with me I ran fabric and Home Care and he led our Home Care business and grew Febreze grew Swiffer to significant pieces of business for us.
Third is we have funded all of this activity and we focused the organization on it.
Fourth is we have done training the organization on discontinuous innovation.
We worked with Clayton Christensen from Harvard Business School who has helped us.
And I think that's about it.
There are more things Joe obviously that's something that's somewhat fluid depending on how plans work or don’t work we didn't knew it just for discontinuous innovation but as an evidence of our scale of the Procter &amp; Gamble company we have taken a new approach in research and development called transformative platform technologies where we have identified nine technologies that span our business units.
Think of these as technologies that are so breakthrough that no individual business unit could afford to invest in them on their own; but on the other hand the corporation can invest in them.
These are like 10 year 20 year technologies that change the face of our business.
One example of this that you would be familiar with is something called solid state technology.
This of this as two metal roles that take a substrate between them and change the physical properties of that substrate as that substrate passes between them and provide either stretch properties so you would see that in Baby Care you would see that in Feminine Care and always on Pampers.
But you would also see that in Glad trash bags the new stretchable Glad trash bags and the new stretchable Glad household bags.
This [surfing] technology is a technology that no single business unit could create but by creating it corporately and then putting it out to the business units based on superior consumer insight.
It involves the five strengths of the company branding go-to market scale innovation consumer knowledge.
We think those are enduring just like we think the purpose of the company is enduring.
What we're doing now is we’re becoming more focused and more fit to win in this current environment.
That’s what our 40-20-10 plans are about that’s what our $10 billion cost savings and productivity improvement plan is about.
That will be the fuel to growth and the fuel to profit Ali on prudence of first quarter guidance I don't generally consider whether something is prudent or not or consider whether it's accurate or not and that's where we find ourselves and we try to explain why.
In terms of the $10 billion program I'd say a couple of things.
First of all we've tried to very transparently lay out exactly how that number was calculated and you've rightly described how that's calculated.
So if you have a different view in terms of what happens with the top line or any component of it we've given you all the pieces and you can model that any way that suits yourself.<br><br>I mentioned in my remarks that we have found as we've gone through this additional opportunities to reduce cost.
I mentioned that I expected us to be or that we would be more than 10% below June 2011 levels on enrollment when we're all done.
So it's not like we're looking at the $10 billion figure and saying that's it.
This is about a culture and a mindset that as Bob said if you will and how it squares with both the end of the year we just completed as well as the subsequent year.
We have as I mentioned funded increases in marketing support and we have as I mentioned funded investments in pricing.
So the investments that are required to deliver that growth acceleration are baked in.
And that's one of the reasons that the first quarter is what it is and it's one of the reasons that the overall guidance is what it is.<br><br>If you exclude foreign exchange from the guidance as we mentioned in the comments we would be at about 2% to 7% earnings per share growth in 2013.
That's not significantly off the bottom-end of the range that I described for 2014 of kind of 8%.
And as we get a full year of cost savings in place for instance from enrollment as we gain the acceleration in the restarted plans in the developed markets etcetera and as we don't have the significant one time hurts that we have in the current year due to pension revaluation and due to the Venezuela pricing thing our core SG&amp;A is around 14.5% of sales which based on our benchmarking puts us in the bottom half of 15 company global competitive peer group.
Now within that there is some diversity.
In general the global beauty companies skew very high on this metric.
Some is high as 24% of sales and the mainly domestic household care companies skewed at the low end of 9 to 10% of sales.
The beauty companies because they have counters they have beauty counselors that’s why they are high.
The household companies some of them go through brokers and don't have sales forces that's why they are low but based on our mix of business which is about 53% household care 33% Beauty and Grooming 14% health care we compare well with the weighted average of our peers.
However considering our company scale we expect to be better than the competitive weighted average.
So getting the core SG&amp;A of around 12% of sales we think puts us in a top third of our competitors on an absolute basis and about 350 basis points below the weighted average based on business mix.<br><br>As we go about this work as you properly pointed out this is not just about reducing the number of heads it's about finding ways to do the work differently in order to be more agile.
That's one of the reasons we've reduced the number of levels within the organization the hierarchy we’ve talked before about reducing the number of Vice Chairman by 50% reducing the number of Vice President by 15% reducing the number of Directors.
And while we’ve done that we’ve digitized the organization to allow them to operate effectively with less overhead.<br><br>We have also been working to make the process from the creation of the product to selling it in the market more linear.
During the time of many acquisitions in the past we became less linear we had too many (inaudible) too many people you had to check with and we are going through a process now in our brand building organization of making that much more linear.
Those are two examples.
The third example is obviously the creation of global business services first on the housekeeping question as you would imagine compaction is always on our radar screen in our innovation program.
It's good for consumers because it helps them reduce the amount of space product takes it reduces fillers and it's good for retailers because it reduces the amount of shelf space they have to use.
It's good for the environment.
It reduces carbon emissions from trucks carrying it around.
It reduces ethylene in the environment.
So we are always looking at compaction and every one of our innovation programs has some kind of compaction within it.
I’d encourage you when you think about compaction to think about Tide PODS.
It's the most compact laundry detergent available.
It's got the highest percentage of actives of any laundry detergent in the market and it cleans as well if not better than six competitive products at the same time.
So what we’re seeing before was developed market growth of about 1.5 points developing market growth of about 8 points which got us to 4 on a global basis.
What we've seen more recently is a slight uptick in developed primarily in June and that's growing now at 2 points developing -- we've actually seen some acceleration as Jon talked about in his remarks.
Some of the activity is correcting price disequilibrium.
But it's important that much of it also is innovation.
And the innovation is also what's driving the improved shares.
An example of that would be continued growth on ProGlide for example in blades and razors.
And we have future innovation coming fully fully agree with developing markets being a priority and a strategic imperative as we look forward.
We have significant opportunity in those ten large markets.
And by markets you shouldn't confuse the word market with country.
These are often times regions or country clusters where we go to market very similarly.
So we refer to them as one market.
If you look at what's ahead of us in developing markets I think it's an incredibly exciting thing for both consumer products companies in general and particularly Procter &amp; Gamble.<br><br>We're looking at population growth to 2020 of 700 million people globally 95% of which are going to be in developing markets.
We're looking at the addition of 1.5 billion middle income consumers 98% of which are going to be in developing markets.
We are I think at the precipice of one of the biggest trade-up cycles that we’ve ever seen.
You have got growing populations growing income levels and very aspirational consumers.
So I think we are making progress in strengthening the culture and what I mean by that is I’ve talked about in my remarks accountability.
We hold people accountable to Procter &amp; Gamble Company.
If you remember in my remarks I talked about bonus programs paying roughly on average 35% payout.
That's a lone number that's painful.
I also mentioned accountability in terms of leadership.
If you compare the leadership that we have today versus the leadership we had three years ago you would see substantive changes particularly in the Beauty business.<br><br>I also talked about the need to establish our cultural productivity something that Procter &amp; Gamble hasn’t had during my 32 year career.
We’ve had periods of productivity improvement but they tend to be one-off or episodic and what we are trying to create now is the productivity constancy where we constantly work to improve the organization the organization effectiveness the leadership of the organization the way we do our work so that we can constantly be turning up the money that we need to invest even in slow macroeconomic environments.
So we’re working very hard on the culture we’re working very hard on the leadership of the company and frankly we just all got together a couple weeks ago and I’m very encouraged by leadership team we have now.
In many ways I think that I just wish I'd done it three years ago Beauty is one of the primary focuses of our 40-20-10 focus program.
There are parts of our Beauty business globally that we’re very happy with.
But there are also parts that we’re unhappy with.
We’ve talked for some time about Pantene North America.
We’ve talked for some time about Olay North America.
And we’re working through innovation through better consumer insights through better advertising to improve the results of those brands.<br><br>Secondly on the Olympics thank you very much for your comments.
The Olympics sponsorship is really a terrific example of Procter &amp; Gamble scale brought to life.
It's the largest multi-brand commercial program that we’ve ever done.
We've got 34 brands and we’ve got displays right now in more than 4 million stores around the world and that last for six-month period.
It started last March April as you know probably with Mum's Day in London and it's going to continue after the Olympics this week.
In fact after the Olympics and in the next couple of weeks we start the Paralympics which is part of our sponsorship as well.
The program has got a 50% higher return on investment versus our typical single brand program.
We've generated a lot of awareness through social media with 6 million views of advertising online so far.
And the benefits of the program extend well beyond the London Olympics as I said.
We still expect to fully deliver about $0.5 billion in incremental sales over a 12-month period and we've consistently demonstrated a 5% to a 20% increase in sales when retailers run Olympic displays.<br><br>We also have seen a tremendous advantage when our brands are linked back to our company the Procter &amp; Gamble Company.
While this looks like something new it really isn't all that new.
When I worked on the new brand in Procter &amp; Gamble in 1980 we were allowed to put this is from Procter &amp; Gamble on the brand for six months during the first six months of launch.
When I was living in Asia from 1991 and 2001 we ended every ad that we had in Asia with a placard that talked about Procter &amp; Gamble and improving lives.
And we have experienced throughout the world that Procter &amp; Gamble is the glue that pulls all the brands together enabling these massive multi-brand merchandising and displays but also leading to the credibility of the brands and the credibility of the company.<br><br>As you can imagine we've researched this in many countries around the world and this is a positive connection.
So we will continue it Leigh.
What we do is we get the leaders of the company together the GBU leaders and the geography leaders.
And we work to put together a total company plan.
So for example if we were to introduce a new category in the country we would look at what other categories space up against the consumer against the retailer against the competitor Tim.
Basically we haven't built-in any significant benefit from share repurchase because we haven't finalized the timing of share repurchase.
And that timing will have an impact on how much earnings per share actually earnings per share benefit is there for the year.
But obviously that provides some degree of flexibility from a lot to a little depending on when we do it.
There is nothing that's changed in the expense environment.
If anything things have probably improved a little bit.
We've talked about commodities being essentially flat whereas when we were talking in Paris for example we were talking about more of a headwind in commodities.
So very happy.
And as I said I think if you compare the leadership team we have today versus the one we had three years ago you’d see significant differences.
Number two the compensation systems of the company very much favors the shareholder.
Most of us have over 95% of our net worth in Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
This company has been a company that in the early days of the company created a profit sharing trust program.
Basically all of my retirement is based in Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
I have no pension other than Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
Our Medical Care is supported by Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
Our bonus programs are based on Procter &amp; Gamble stock.
So our leadership is very very much focused on total shareholder return and Procter &amp; Gamble stock and that's why the comment I made about the payout being only averagely 35% that's still going to be paid in Procter &amp; Gamble stock and restricted shares.
So that's significant.<br><br>Secondly while it is true that part of the compensation program is a mixture of business unit performance as well as company performance even when we do that metric we have a company factor in there.
And when the leadership team got together last week we suggested and we all agreed that we focus on seven metrics for the entire organization and we are doing that.
So we are united more than ever before as I have said in my remarks when you were talking about the challenges of managing a big company as opposed to smaller focused company.
I think it's important to understand how we actually manage the business which is actually very focused.
The daily business of the company is managed by leaders of individual business units.
They are focused on only one thing they have one job; growing sales and profit of their business and they get to do that with all of the assets of the Procter &amp; Gamble Company behind them.
And unlike many of their competitors they don’t have to concern themselves with back office activities treasury tax investor calls.
They have got one job.
So we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!