Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from Bill Schmitz - Deutsche Bank.
Jon good morning.
Can you just talk about the first the way this would [ph] impact the strong dollar.
So what’s going on in some of the emerging markets or some of the big price increases you take and then you look at some of the [indiscernible] in the U.S.
and it’s clearing categories like shampoo where like your percentage of sales in ACB is massively spiking.
L'Oréal is talking about seeking revenge Henkel is launching Priscilla [ph] exclusively at Wal-Mart so can you just like talk about what that has relative to your expectations in kind of how you plan to [indiscernible] that going forward? Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
First I’d say it’s still relatively early in the development of whatever that occurs here but so far markets have held up fairly.
As I said it’s pretty really so we really won’t know the impacts in markets like Russia Bill the next quarter or the quarter after.
Like you’re seeing from several of the companies in the industry that are responded in the last quarter the Russian market was actually up as they anticipated price increases come in.
So again we have stream of second leg there.
What I would broadly is that - and I’ll get to the U.S.
in a second but in developing markets those currencies have devalued not just versus the dollar but also versus the euro.
If you take the case Russia which I walked through in some detail on the last call there is every reason for both local competitors and multinational competitors to be pricing in many of these markets and that’s generally might be at early days what we’re seeing.
As it relates to the overall promotional environment competitiveness et cetera and reflecting specifically on the U.S.
if we look at the percentage of volume that was sold on promotion in the January to March quarter it indexes at a 100 so is identical to last year and if you look at it sequentially quarter-to-quarter there is very little change.
That doesn’t mean that it couldn’t change but that’s the data thus far and that’s consistent with the dynamics in our own business.
Obviously by category you mentioned hair care.
We may see some more promotion in one quarter or another.
There is obviously promotion as competitors and ourselves introduce new products and are trying to generate trial of those items.
But to date there is nothing from either a developing market standpoint or developed market standpoint that would indicate systemic change.
Hey good morning.
Hi Dara.
So I just wanted to talk a little bit about EPS guidance and clearly you’re keeping the EPS guidance here despite the FX head and organic sales coming in are now expected to come in a bit below which you originally expected.
Do you think you are stretching the organization here to hit these EPS targets? It seems like every year we’ve got this hockey stick in Q4 earnings.
You’ve now got some gains coming through Q4 earnings and Q4 add spend has been down over the last few years and I know a lot of that is the external environment clearly macros are working against you but I’m just wondering if there is a thought process as you look at the next year in the earnings guidance that given some of this external volatility and some of the internal issues you might need to provide yourself more cushion room when you look at guidance versus what has been the case over the last few years here.
Thanks.
So you make a couple of good observations there Dara let me try to address them holistically.
In terms of forecast and guidance we’re obviously into that and more specifics in August.
We’re just in the middle of our prep season right now.
If all of us know amount of cushion that you can build in that overcomes this $1.5 billion of after tax foreign exchange cost the majority of which we’re not anticipated based on spot markets as we went into the year and expected our budgets last year.
But that doesn’t mean I agree with you point that we need to provide a sufficient room to invest in the business and frankly we’ve not pulled off in that regard.
We have continued to invest as I tried to make clear in my remarks in certain parts of the organization both R&amp;D and sales we continue to invest in our brand and product platforms.
We continue to invest in the redesign of our supply chain.
We’ve continued to invest in new product launches and that’s clearly going to continue through next quarter.
I mean we’re just in the first quarter launches of things like Venus Swirl and Always Discreet and they had received full support.
As well for instance the laundry innovations that I briefly mentioned in the opening remarks.
So what allows us if FX is going to continue to be a headwind and we’re going to continue to invest which we are what allows us to deliver the fourth quarter number that as you rightly point out will be materially better than the first three quarters.
We will have as I mentioned commodity cost tailwinds.
We will have the full benefit of this year’s productivity savings.
Pricing for some of the currencies will begin to kick in.
There will be a minor impact as we noted on a minor investor gains [ph].
But it’s those items - look at the 410 basis points of productivity savings in this quarter and how we continue to invest in all the things I talked about.
It’s a continuation of that that should allow us to deliver.
Philosophically I have no difference I’m completely aligning to what you’re suggesting in terms of how we construct plans and budgets and I think our current plan of budget is constructed that way.
Recall in the middle of the year we took earning per share guidance down.
So we’re not a slave to that.
As I’ve said many times if I’ve proven anything over the last six or seven years it’s that I’m not constrained by guidance.
So we’ll continue investing but we’ll continue to deliver productivity savings as well and we’re hopeful that we invest in right amounts of those in the top line.
We’ll get both the top-line and bottom-line growing at very attractive rates.
Thanks.
Jon can you talk a little bit about gross margin.
You’ve delivered gross margin expansion a couple of times now despite pretty weak top-line it seems like we might be seeing sort of one off mixed benefits from that standpoint in terms of less emerging markets or potentially grooming being better that’s driving that.
So can you talk to us about sort of the progression on gross margin as we look at over the next couple of quarters and do you need sort of one off things to happen within those quarters in order to get there? And what do you think is the rate of benefit coming from local manufacturing particularly in terms of lessening the mixed impact overtime? Thanks.
So the biggest driver of gross margin by far - were the productivity savings of 250 basis points and that’s not one time.
It doesn’t rely on certain categories growing faster than others.
That’s there we’ll maintain our increased path and I expect gross margin to continue to improve next quarter which will make it I think three quarters in a row which again is some indication of the systemic improvement there.
There was some benefit as you rightly mentioned from mix which is frankly the developing and developed markets growing at closer rates to each other and if developing markets were to accelerate that mix benefit would be slightly –mix hurt [ph] would be slightly increased.
In terms of the benefit of local manufacturing that continues to build.
It’s part of the 250 basis points.
I actually don’t know exactly how that breaks out in terms of basis point improvement but John and Katie [ph] can help you with that.
But it’s significant and as I mentioned we’re making very good progress on developing market margins through that and other dynamics including positive mix developments as those market in some cases premiumlize [ph] and as I said we’re growing constant currency earnings ahead of constant currency sales growth 2X three years ago 4X last year 6X this year and that’s a trend that should continue.
Thanks very much.
Jon with organic sales now having to accelerate a bit more can you talk through some of the incremental big initiatives that need to be taken to drive improvements because it seems a bit too simple to say that getting out of some of the slower growing categories and the portfolio shift is going to be enough.
I mean is there a function of consumers across a number of categories not just within HVC [ph] but across Staples sort of trading out of bigger brands and so potentially more niche you’re offering here and there? Thanks Olivia.
Our largest brands are our fastest growing brands.
That’s true over a five year period over a three year period over a one year period and was true last quarter.
So I’m not disputing the dynamic that you describe in terms of smaller brands impact in some categories.
I think it’s more probably for example in some of the beverage categories and two categories.
But any period of time we look at convinces us that along with the intuitive benefits in big brand platforms in terms of innovation importance to retailers et cetera convinces us that this is a business model that will continue to work for us.
In terms of you mentioned organic sales acceleration I just want to put that in context a little bit.
I really don’t see significant deceleration.
Let me explain that.
We rounded up to two2 for the last two quarters.
This quarter we rounded down to one.
We’re talking in very small differences quarter-to-quarter sequentially.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks the impact that the time the expansion tax increase had in Japan.
That item alone if you take that out of the results we would have rounded to two.
My point is not that that’s a measure of victory or defeat.
My point is simply that I don’t see any systemic deceleration in the sales quarter-to-quarter.
Portfolio as you rightly indicate will help from both the top-line and a bottom-line stand point.
And you are absolutely right there is additional work on brands and in some markets we need to do to maximize growth and I mentioned those in my prepared remarks as well.
We have work to do in Mexico though we’re getting through that very nicely.
We have work to do in China and as I mentioned China growth rates continue to be good so that all looks pretty reasonable.
And as you know from our results we have continued work to do on beauty some of which will be addressed through the portfolio and some of which we’re currently making significant progress on.
I think when you step back and I realize it’s a little bit difficult to see and I certainly appreciate that but we’re really on track or ahead of everything we’re trying to do to transform this company to a more sustainable more reliable grower on both the top and bottom line and that gets lost in the messiness of execution if you will and frankly through the flog of FX currently.
We’re very happy with where we sit in terms of the progress we’re making on both the portfolio and on the brands that are going to constitute the new company.
Hey thanks.
Jon I guess I apologize in advance for kind of a long question but inventory reductions and unprofitable promos right that you guys have been backing out I guess.
I want to talk a little bit about.
So can you revisit specifically the drivers of the weakness in Mexico because I know you’re talking about consumption tax? I think there was some exiting of some unprofitable promotion.
I think you’re also citing some inventory reductions.
So can you at least give more specifics I guess around how those issues are may be related and then for Mexico and for China how long do these inventory corrections take? I know in China Unilever should have ripped the Band-Aid off and took a 20% hit.
Do you have a defined strategy on this and how long will it drag and then just lastly are there any other markets where this stuff is happening may be just even on a smaller scale.
Thanks.
Thank Chris.
Let me deal with Mexico first.
In any of the developing markets the supply chains from the manufacturer’s door to a store are long and layered.
China is an example; you’re going through distributors wholesalers secondary wholesalers.
And so when there is a significant change in market growth rate as there was in Mexico as a result of the consumption tax increase last year as there have been in china as many of our competitors have reported there is a lot of inventory in that system which needs to get drawn down.
And you’re not in complete control of how quickly that can be accomplished because you’re not owning all of that inventory.
But we’re working our way through that.
In Mexico if you look at growth rates quarter-to-quarter it improved significantly on the order of magnitude of 10 points and we’re expecting significant further improvement in AMJ.
So I would say that one we are largely at least from a visibility horizon we see our way through that.
China as I mentioned there is - if you look at consumption we’re in a very good place in China in many categories.
We are probably two quarters in through the inventory reduction that needs to occur that’s largely consistent with what our competitors have reported as well.
I would say we’ve got another quarter or two to go there and then we have some structural work that we need to do.
But as I said these are large developing markets with very complicated long layered supply chains and these are dynamics that are affecting the industry broadly but once we’re through them it’s back to business as normal and we compete on the basis of the strength of our products and brands and we feel very good about that.
I would tell you Chris that there are no other large issues like this that I’m currently aware of.
We will have to and we talked about this several times have to manage very carefully in some of the markets where our currency devaluation has been significant because those market sizes can change pretty significantly and we’ll do that.
Hi a couple of things.
First of all just a follow up on China I was listening to what you said and I guess I don’t understand some of the other companies like Unilever and Colgate talked about destocking in China as of last summer if not earlier and now it’s kind of only heading [indiscernible].
I’m just curious why does it seem that the timing is kind of unique to one manufacturer at a time that’s just a follow up.
But then the bigger question is from a volume growth perspective and kind of how it pertains to your kind of longer term growth algorithm.
It just strikes me that we’ve seen an enormous number of really big may be not enormous but order magnitude really big successful innovations from you over the last four quarters and yet we still haven’t seen much volume growth.
And so I know we’re going to get into easier comps but I sort of - it doesn’t sound to me like the innovations are coming down the pike are as big as FlexBall or as big as Pods or Flings or what not.
And so is there a change in your long-term outlook for how much of volume growth is going to contribute to the top line and plus when I promised just on the marketing budget I understand the idea of doing more with less but given how competitive the market is and given how lower your volume growth is why wouldn’t you choose to take some of those productivity savings and jut do more with more? Thanks Alright.
First in terms of timing different companies frankly have very different product mixes and they move through different distribution channels.
So if you think about Unilever as a large food business in China it is very possible that they could have a different dynamic than the other channels and we’re talking displacement of one quarter here or something like that.
So that’s that item.
In terms of volume and initiatives the biggest impact on volume has been the pricing before FX and that will continue until those markets recover or until that annualizes.
But our innovations if you look at the big ones that you mentioned first they’re contributing to both category growth and share growth.
And category growth is a real indication of the strength of an innovation.
Does it lift the entire category? And we’ve seen that behind the things that I mentioned earlier and the good news is that those largely have been fully expanded in one market the U.S.
And we expand those globally we expect to see that same impact just like we did with all Always Discreet in both the UK and the U.S.
for example.
So we’re pretty optimistic as we look forward about the strength of our innovation program and what that can do from the top line.
We’re going to have to continue to manage the volume impacts of FX but we’re really focused on the revenue number as the leverage to generate operating profit and cash and we’re doing reasonably well there.
On marketing as I mentioned we are doing exactly what you would suggest we do Wendy which is invest more where it makes sense to do that.
And these innovations that I’ve talked about are exactly one place where we’re doing is just that and we’ll continue to do that.
I mean the investment behind the introduction of new brand in terms of Always Discreet you could imagine is significant and we’re very happy with that because of the returns that we can generate and because of the impact that’s had on those markets which are as I mentioned have doubled the growth rate versus the pre-entry period.
So we’re not talking here about construction on marketing dollars; what we are talking about is being as efficient and effective as we can and spending those dollars where they drive returns.
Hi Jon.
I just wanted to dig in to your comments on strategy a bit more.
As you step back as you mentioned productivity efforts have been sizeable for a number of years and they seem to be running ahead of plan.
You’ve made significant shifts in how you’re organizing now how your portfolio is structured but alongside that growth has been a struggle.
And I think we’d all acknowledge that the macro environment hasn’t helped but do you think there is a risk that all this inwardly focused change in operational improvement has actually impeded your efforts to execute on a larger strategy that you articulated namely uncovering consumer insights and driving consumer preferred innovations because it just seems like all these internal improvements are continually being offset by relative struggles in that external marketplace.
I don’t mean for this to be an unfair question but I’m just wondering what point its worth asking whether organic growth challenges may actually be exacerbated by all this internal change and whether improvement may have to to some extent just wait until those internal projects run their course? Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
That’s actually a very good and very fair question and it’s something that where we continue to be in active dialogue on here at P&amp;G.
We’ve been very deliberate about the pace of some of the changes and ensuring that we have the capacity to execute to serve consumers to serve shoppers and do that in a more effective manner every day.
So that’s exactly the question that we ask ourselves.
It’s why for example we said we’re going to take two years to complete the portfolio program as opposed to overnight.
That we have the capacity to do that and deliver the business and so again I think you’re asking the right question.
It’s one that we ask ourselves and we will make choices that maximize the total.
That’s one of the beauties of the metric that we’re working against in terms operating TSR it’s an integrated metric which strives choice and balance across both growth and value creation.
You simply can’t get there without one leg of that stool and the third leg being cash creation.
So we’re approaching this in a very holistic sense very cognizant of the right question that you asked and are trying to get the balance right.
As I indicated earlier we feel very good about where we are in terms of the progression against those strategic initiatives that you outlined and others including and the redesign of the supply chain.
And most of our big brands and categories were growing fairly well.
As I mentioned if you look at grooming health care baby care family care and family care we grew at 9% 6% and 2% respectively.
So that’s not an indication of any systemic pinch point if you will where we haven’t performed as well as well it’s more a function of an individual business dynamic.
Thanks good morning.
I thought a follow up I guess on that would - the idea of taking three years for the divestiture process.
I mean to what degree was that creating or is it any disruption on - employees wonder I know about what things sold and when or retailers or competitors are kind of looking at the things that we can pounce on a business where we think that P&amp;G deemphasizing.
So what [indiscernible] did you think that may be actually weighing on organic [indiscernible].
The other thing was that Jon in talking about how you feel good internally about the progress being made is it but a thin map but messing of the execution.
Maybe doesn’t look a great word to it but I feel like the one thing that P&amp;G committed to three years ago was - nearly three years ago was we will improve the execution.
And that doesn’t feel it’s like happening so whether it’s an one off thing to pop up with China and Mexico there and honestly I’m not convinced there won’t be another big one off two or three quarters from now.
So what is it that has or hasn’t changed that on cote-on-cote execution in the market? Thanks.
Let me tackle the last one first.
It was a poor word choice.
I should have said the chunkiness of execution.
Frankly we’ve been very intentional in the focus on improving execution.
I feel very good about the progress that we’re making there.
So I apologize for that word choice.
But there are just big chunks moving in and out as we make these very big transformational moves which can flatter things up a little bit.
In terms of organic sales growth and the portfolio impact if you look at the businesses take Duracell as an example which is we’re currently working to transition to butcher a half away.
But the entire period of the business was working on that project leading up to the signing of the deal and post the signing of the deal managing through transition.
That business has held up extremely well building market share.
I won’t go into the details but several of the other businesses that we’re looking to sell are also performing very well.
In other words growth rates were above the 100 index versus year ago.
So I think we’ve got about the right balance in terms of the pace at which we’re moving and the work to be done.
As I said it’s something that we relook every day but it’s not major concern at this point.
Yeah good morning guys.
So just few quick ones from me.
Jon some in the media world would suggest that P&amp;G has taken its marketing mix too digital heavy so I just wondered if you could respond to that and your perspective around that.
And then the second question is in your prepared remarks you indicated [indiscernible] rationalization will take place in the core portfolio over the next couple of years if I heard that I right.
Just curious how we should think about that and its impact on organic revenue growth as we look out the next couple of years I mean I know you’re not giving guidance but just how should we kind of think about it from a magnitude standpoint? These are skews are at the long far tail in terms of productivity.
So we have businesses that are less than 1% of the sales and the same is true with profit.
So I think if anything by removing the clutter by allowing us to focus on product lines and skews that really matter to consumers and customers that should have a positive impact on the top-line not a negative.
These are itches in some cases but they’re meaningful in terms of the amount of complexities that they create.
That’s true in our operations that’s true at the shelf that’s true in the warehouse.
In terms of our approach to digital versus prudential media we viewed this very much as an and not an or they complement each other.
So we look at it very holistically.
We’ve guided in our choice by two things one is where consumers are spending their time in terms of consumption of media.
We need to be reasonably in step with that and the second is depending on the category what media they want to interact with and learn about our products on.
And that’s different across categories.
So we’re going to be guided as in everything we do by the consumer and if we stay with that approach we’ll probably not stray too far from what’s right.
Good morning everyone.
Jon I have to say that I’m still having a hard reconciling the top-line growth of 1% with your positive remarks about some of your big brands Pampers.
The flip side of the response that you gave to Olivia earlier is that you’re basically are telling the investors that Proctor performance in the past quarters had been actually weaker and organic sales only around up to two.
Shouldn’t you be considering a bigger portfolio change or a breakup even given that sectors like beauty are not only getting more fragmented and smaller than any food and beverages categories that you alluded earlier and instead of reducing SKU’s by 15% and 20% as Nik just said what you’re going to have is split up [ph] top-line growth for the next two years.
Thank you We’re going to try to have fullest ability on the portfolio moves by the summer and I think we’ll be in a position then to articulate why we think these are the right moves and so I’m going to save that conversation for that point in time.
But we’re being federal [ph] in our approach across each of the categories and brands.
There’s no business that we haven’t objectively analyzed and so I think we’re going to end up in a pretty good place in that regard.
In terms of - look on this whole thing of small brands and fragmentation.
One our data doesn’t support that being an issue from most of the businesses that we’re going to maintain.
Second where differentiated performance matters and where differentiated performance is delivered this dynamic does not remain.
So for example and I’ll bring it to beauty in a second Javier but if you think about Pampers as an example I can’t think of a new mother who would be asking herself where performance really matters would be asking herself what’s the new diaper that nobody’s ever tried before or where I can discover the next diaper? That’s not the thought process.
There’s a job that needs to be done there’s a brand that has proven over decades it can do the job it can do it better than the other offerings that are out there and it’s offered at a price that creates a good value.
If you think about performance and where performance matters in a beauty context think about anti dandruff shampoos.
I’ve got a problem I need a solution.
This is not time to experiment this is time to solve.
Head &amp; Shoulders has been solving dandruff issues for decades.
It’s a brand that consumers know and trust and it’s offered at a reasonable value.
So I think we have to think about the specific dynamics of a category the consumer approach to the category the relevance of innovation of the category and differential performance as a driver of purchase before we make broad conclusions about whether fragmentation is going to occur or not.
In terms of your question on split up again let’s wait until we have the portfolio in front of us and talk about it at that point.
We’re very bullish and again this is not just based on what we think is going to happen.
This is based on 10 5 3 and 1 years of data which is very consistent and its outcome.
And these are categories that we have long track records of winning in where we’re typically the market leader with brands and other prototypes in those category.
Operator And next we have Joe Altobello with Raymond James.
Q - Joe Altobello Hi this is Christine on for Joe.
I just wanted to change the topic quickly and go to commodity costs and whether you’re still expecting that to be a $500 million to $700 million tail end next year.
And how much of that do you actually expect to recover out of pricing.
Thanks.
Our current estimate would be more than the order magnitude to $600 million to $800 million of BT commodity cost savings next fiscal year.
Really don’t have a point of view yet on how much of that we’ll be able to take to the bottom-line as opposed to past proven price.
So if you just reflect on the dynamics in the industry this is an industry that with the exception of some international competitors who have FX tailwinds is challenged from a profit growth stand point and that’s a dynamic that generally supports or using this saving as a way to help that situation.
So we’re hopeful that many of these will come to the bottom line but that’s something that we’ll have to see as we move forward.
Hi guys.
Jon I mean you’re getting the same question from many folks over and over again and I’m not sure the message is necessarily clear which is we’ve been hearing a lot of promise that help us round the corner for years years and every back half of the year you kind of limp across the finish line.
If not just this year and I guess for me at least I just wonder whether P&amp;G has the right to be consistently in a short-term optimist at least given its recent track record.
And now the promise is wait till we break up 14% of sales 6% operating profit out of our business things will be much better but at that point how much longer would we have to wait for you guys to decide that maybe something even bigger has to happen maybe you really got to rebase your guidance and you shouldn’t be delivering double digit EPS growth maybe you really have to break up the company even further? I think there’s a lot of frustration in terms of trying to see the logs grant to the macro stuff grant to the FX but others have that too.
How much longer do we wait I guess is really the core question and especially after this next promise divestitures how much longer do we have to wait after that? Thanks.
The last year you mentioned FX I think you’re right to mention that excluding FX we grew 14% on the bottom-line this year will grow double digits.
I think it’s pretty clear that the operating improvements that we are making productivity and otherwise are coming through.
And if it weren’t for FX we would be having a very different discussion right now.
We do have brands and businesses where we need to continue to strengthen the top-line we’re cognizant of that I mentioned that and that kind of is what it is.
We look at the change that we’re in the middle of executing.
It’s probably the biggest transformation this company has gone through across the totality of portfolio supply chain organization structure and design and as I said it’s hard to see that all come together at this point but each of the pieces we’re very happy with the progress and we’ll see.
Good morning thanks so much.
Just a question about beauty again Olay and Pantene are different from Head &amp; Shoulders because there’s not this clear need and promise and delivery.
So if you just look at Olay and the performance.
I know China has been very problematic but around the world why do you think P&amp;G really should be in that passive business? Well First of all Caroline younger looking skin I think is a real need.
It’s increasingly a need of mine.
If you count [ph] my hair care need and I’m not going to comment on specific businesses that we are going to be in or out.
Again we’ll do that when we’re ready to do that but that’s a business where function and performance differentiated performance does matter.
It’s what enabled us to build one of the largest the largest facial skin care brand in the world and continues to have incredibly strong equity and frankly is growing significantly in many parts of the world where we haven’t cluttered the equity in the shelves as badly as we for instance in the U.S.
and China.
I was just a couple of weeks ago in the Gulf in the Middle East and that’s a market where the brand architecture is much cleaner and clear and that business is growing double digits.
Something is true in the UK and Olay we’re again - we haven’t cluttered either the messaging the equity or the shelf.
So skin care is clearly - and SK II as an example that delivers a clear benefit that’s coveted by women particularly in Asia.
So it’ not a business that is all about fashions and style it’s a business that’s about performance.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!