Good day and welcome to the Philip Morris International Fourth Quarter 2012 Year End Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is scheduled to last about 1 hour including remarks by Philip Morris International management and the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Nick Rolli Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome thank you for joining us.
Earlier today we issued a press release containing detailed information on our 2012 fourth quarter and full year results.
You may access the release on our website at www.pmi.com.
During our call today we will be talking about results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and comparing them to the same period in 2011 unless otherwise stated.
References to volumes are to PMI shipments.
Industry volume and market shares are the latest data available from a number of internal and external sources.
Organic volume refers to volume excluding acquisitions.
Net revenues exclude excise taxes.
Operating Companies Income or OCI is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and the amortization of intangibles.
You will find data tables showing adjustments to net revenues and OCI for currency acquisitions asset impairment exit and other costs free cash flow calculations and adjustments to earnings per share or EPS as well as reconciliations to U.S.
GAAP measures which are posted on our website.
Today’s remarks contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results.
I direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements disclosure in today’s presentation and press release for a review of the various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections or forward-looking statements.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce Louis Camilleri our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jacek Olczak our Chief Financial Officer who will join Louis for the question-and-answer period.
Louis? Thank you Nick and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
As expected we finished 2012 on a very strong note with fourth quarter organic cigarette volume growth of 2.9%; net revenues and adjusted Operating Companies Income or OCI both excluding currency and acquisitions increasing by 6.4% and 12.3% respectively; and adjusted diluted earnings per share growing by 16.4% excluding currency.
Our strong volume performance was partially flattered by some favorable inventory movements which we estimate added some 60 basis points to our 2.9% growth rate.
Cigarette volume for the full year reached 927 billion units an increase of 1.3% on an organic basis.
The solid performance reflects the breadth of our geographic coverage our excellent balance between emerging and developed markets and our superior brand portfolio.
The key volume drivers were the EEMA and Asia regions where we realized organic volume growth of 4.6% and 4.2% respectively which more than offset a 13.5 billion unit or 6.4% volume erosion in the European Union region reflecting a decline in cigarette industry volume due to continued economic woes particularly in Southern European markets.
In 2012 we achieved strong market share performances across all four regions with gains of close to 1 share point in the Asia EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions and an essentially unchanged share in the European Union region despite significant competitive trade loading in Germany at the end of the years.
As a result our global market share excluding China and the U.S.
increased by 0.5 percentage points to a record 28.8% in 2012.
Our global volume and share performance should be solid in 2013 and we anticipate organic volume growth of up to 1% excluding the Philippines.
Continued strong pricing across all four regions was the key driver of our revenue and OCI growth.
Generating a favorable variance of $1.8 billion in 2012.<br><br>We incurred a slightly unfavorable volume mix variance with positive volumes stable brand mix and an unfavorable geographic mix.
Indeed absent the Japan hurdle our volume mix variance would have been positive which we view as a significant achievement.
In addition we increased our investments in the business notably in Germany Indonesia and Russia focusing in particular on our key brands in market field forces and infrastructures.<br><br>In 2012 net revenues grew by 5.6% excluding currency and acquisitions on the same basis adjusted operating companies income increased by over $1.1 billion or 8.1%.
These growth rates were at the high end of our mid to long term currency neutral annual growth targets of 4% to 6% and 6% to 8% respectively.<br><br>Our strong business results and our substantial share repurchase programs enable us to increase our adjusted diluted earnings per share to a level of $5.22 in 2012 representing a growth rate of 11.7% excluding an unfavorable currency impact of $0.23 per share.
We entered 2013 with strong business fundamentals and excellence trends and we’re optimistic on the prospects of our business.
With the recent exception of the Japanese Yen exchange rates have generally stabilized compared to 2012 and we’re forecasting a currency headwind of approximately $0.06 per share in 2013 at prevailing rates.
We must recognize however that currency rates remain volatile.
Our reported diluted earnings per share guidance of prevailing exchange rates is in a range of $5.68 to $5.78 versus $5.17 in 2012.<br><br>This corresponds to a growth rate excluding currency of 10% to 12% compared to our adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.22 in 2012.
Thus we again expect to meet our mid-to-long term currency neutral annual EPS growth target in 2013.
This would be the six consecutive years of achieving this target.
This guidance factors in the expected impact of the disruptively large excise tax increase that took place at the beginning of this year in the Philippines.
The new law increase the excise tax on premium price Marlboro and low price Fortune from 12 to 25 pesos and from 2.72 to 12 pesos per pack respectively.<br><br>In a response we have increased the recommended retail price per pack of Marlboro from 32 to 51 pesos and that of Fortune from 15 to 25.5 pesos.
It will take several months before we can accurately gauge the actual impact of such pricing on total industry volume and on potential consumer down trading.<br><br>The volume impact however is expected to be considerable in a range of 20% to 25%.
We nevertheless anticipate that the impact on our earnings will be marginal given our pricing actions.
I would like to say a few words about one of the key regulatory challenges that we’re facing the European Union’s proposed new tobacco products directives or TPD.<br><br>Let me emphasize at this stage it is a proposal the content of which still has to be approved by both the European Council of Ministers and the European Parliament.
During this review process it maybe amended and the final outcome remains uncertain.
Once the consensus is reached by both the Council and the Parliament the TPD has to be transposed into local laws by each member state.
The European Commission has indicated that it expects that it will take through 2014 to reach an agreement and the full implementation will only incur in 2015 or even 2016.<br><br>The proposed TPD does not mandate plain packaging as was feared but it does contain a number of proposals that we believe have no credible scientific basis and would be counterproductive.
These relate both to products and their packaging.
It calls notably for a ban on menthol and slimmer cigarettes and the introduction of 75% graphic health warnings.
Menthol and slimmer cigarettes accounted for approximately 10% of European Union cigarette industry volume in 2012 though in markets such as Poland accounted for about one-third of consumption.
We believe that such measures would inevitably lead to both an increase in illicit trade and a reduction in government revenues with no benefit to public health.
Rest assured that we will do everything in our power to ensure that reason prevails and that the obvious unintended consequences of the current draft do not materialize.<br><br>As mentioned earlier we expect to achieve organic cigarette volume growth excluding the Philippines in 2013.
Strong volume growth in the EEMA regions and the other Asian markets is forecast to more than offset continued volume declines in the European Union region where no significant overall improvement is foreseen until the current high levels of unemployment are meaningfully reduced.
Our key premium brands Marlboro and Parliament are performing strongly as volume and share are expanding across a wide range of geographies.
Our overall brand portfolio is in excellent shape with a strong complementary presence in profitable mid and low priced segments.<br><br>The global excise tax environment remains reasonable with the obvious exception of the Philippines and the pricing environment continues to be favorable.
Pricing will again be the key growth driver of our earnings.
Some 75% of our anticipated pricing variance in 2013 upon which our guidance is predicated has already been implemented or announced.
The Asia EEMA and Latin America and Canada regions are forecast to generate strong OCI growth again this year while we expect to be able to maintain our current high level of profitability in the European Union region excluding currency.<br><br>Our brands are performing very well with 8 of our top 10 brands increasing volume in 2012 excluding the Japan hurdle.
Arguably our greatest achievement in 2012 was the continued growth of Marlboro with its architecture firmly in place complemented by the new campaign and the continued rollout of an array of consumer relevant line extensions across the Flavor Gold and Fresh lines Marlboro continued to expand its share on a global basis to reach 9.3% excluding China and the U.S.<br><br>For the first time since the 2008 spin Marlboro grew share in all four regions underscoring its enhanced brand equity continued relevance and renewed vitality.
Above premium price Parliament achieved double-digit volume growth last year to reach a total of 43.4 billion units.
This excellent result was driven by its superb performance in Turkey in Russia and across Eastern Europe as well as in Middle East.
<br>Parliament has a refined luxury image and has benefited from packaging upgrade and the launch of the industry’s first ever re recessed filter capsule product in Korea.
We’re also very pleased with the renewed strength of L&amp;M in 2012.
Volume grew by 4% to 93.7 billion units.<br><br>This growth was driven by increased availability in Egypt.
The long awaited turn around in Russia a strong performance across the bakkens shared gains in Thailand and a higher volume in Turkey.
In the European Union region L&amp;M continued to grow share in this five most important markets namely Slovakia Poland Belgium Germany and  (inaudible).
However this was offset by a shared decline in markets in the Southern part of the Europe largely compensated by share gains on Chesterfields.
On a regional basis L&amp;M share was stable at 6.6% last year.<br><br>Our leading position and our strong share growth momentum in Indonesia give us a unique position in the global tobacco industry.
Based on an expanded Nielsen coverage we have updated our market data on Indonesia.
In 2012 we estimate that the total cigarette industry volume increased by 8.2% to 303 billion units driven by favorable demographics and a strong economy.
We expect continued strong industry volume growth in a range of 5% to 6% going forward.<br><br>Our volume search by 17.5% last year and we expanded our market share from 32.8% to 35.6% a gain of 2.8 share points.
Our strong premium skewed portfolio led by some Sampoerna A and our superior national distribution was reinforced by favorable retail price points.<br><br>I would also like to highlight our strong performance in two email markets our volume in Russia increased by 3.8% last year while total industry volume declined an estimated 1.3% over the same period driven by higher prices.
In 2012 we gained 0.5 percentage share points thanks to the strength of our broadly based portfolio and investments in marketing and sales.
The key drivers of our market share growth were above premium parliaments mid-priced L&amp;M and low price Bond Street and Next.
Importantly we improved our position in the growing slimmer diameter segment.<br><br>Last autumn the Russian parliament approved excised tax increases for 2013 in-line with it's previously published plans.
Subsequently we registered new retail prices with increases of 6 to 7 rubles per pack across our portfolio.
In Turkey total cigarette industry volume grew by 8.8% last year to 99 billion units driven by a reduction in a listed trade trade loading in the fourth quarter of 2012 ahead of a full seen excise tax and price increase.
A weak fourth quarter 2011 growth in the adult population and the strong economic environment.
Our volume increased by 12.7% last year and we expanded our market share by a further 0.9 points to 45.7%.<br><br>At the same time we improved our mix behind the growth of premium parliaments and mid-priced (inaudible).
In January we increased our retail prices by 1 Turkish Lira per pack and responded to the excise tax increase that was announced by the government.
The new excise tax regime now includes a specific element for the very first time.
In contrast the business environment in the Southern part of Europe remains very challenging as illustrated by Italy where unemployment reached 11.1% in November 2012 1.7 above the prior year level.<br><br>In 2012 Italy’s cigarette industry volumes declined by 7.9% as adult smokers impacted by a reduction in purchasing power switched to lower taxed fine cut products and to illicit trade which grew by some 40% and 80% respectively.
However during the year the government reduced the tax differential between fine cut and cigarettes.
Consequently the growth of the fine cut category slowed to less than 2% in the fourth quarter when cigarette volume declined by a more moderate 4%.<br><br>Despite this challenging environment our brands performed strongly in Italy.
Marlboro grew its cigarette market share by 0.6 points to 23.1%.
The growth accelerated in the fourth quarter when its share increased 1.3 points to 23.5%.
We successfully launched Philip Morris Selection in the growing international low-priced segment at the beginning of 2012.
It achieved a 0.5% share for the full year and 0.8% in the fourth quarter.
Finally Chesterfield in addition to holding its own in the cigarette category obtained a 23.5% share of the fine cut category.<br><br>While revenue growth remains the key to success in our business we continue to be very focused on cost controls and productivity gains.
Our adjusted Operating Companies Income margin increased in 2012 from 44.1% to 45.2% excluding currency.
This improvement reflects not only higher pricing but also limited cost increases our success in surpassing our $300 million one year productivity target and our continued efforts to optimize our manufacturing footprint.
This year we are targeting a further $300 million in productivity savings to help offset expected moderate increases in lease and direct materials as well as higher clove costs.
While our business continued to generate growing amounts of cash from higher earnings our free cash flow of $8.4 billion in 2012 was down $1.1 billion or 11.6% excluding currency.
This decline was attributable to higher working capital requirements of $1.7 billion as well as a $220 million increase in capital expenditures.<br><br>The working capital increase was primarily driven by Indonesia where our business growth led to higher tobacco leaf and finished goods inventories and where we took advantage of a larger but admittedly significantly more expensive clove crop to build stocks for future business growth.
In addition we needed to replenish our global tobacco leaf stocks following our unexpectedly large cigarette sales in Japan in 2011.
The increase in capital expenditures is attributable in particular to production capacity increases in the Asia and EEMA regions.<br><br>We anticipate a strong increase in our currency neutral free cash flow in 2013 though we do plan further increases in capital expenditures related notably to additional capacity in Indonesia and to the establishment of next generation products manufacturing capacity.
In addition as has been the case historically forestalling related inventory requirements can fluctuate significantly and are difficult to forecast accurately.
However in 2013 we project that our cash flow growth will exceed that of our earnings growth.<br><br>As you can see on this chart since the 2008 spend we have transformed the higher proportion of our growing net revenues into free cash flow than any of our consumer products in tobacco industry peers.
In September last year we increased our dividend by a further 10.4% bringing the cumulative increase since 2008 to 84.8%.
We initiated a new three-year $18 billion share repurchase program in August of 2012.
Last year in total we spent $6.5 billion to repurchase 74.9 million shares.<br><br>We remain committed to a balanced program of returning cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and we target share repurchases of 6 billion in 2013.
In conclusion we expect to deliver strong results again in 2013? A diluted earnings per share guidance is $5.68 to $5.78 this corresponds to a 10% to 12% growth rate excluding currency compared to our 2012 adjusted diluted earnings per share of $5.22.
This is fully in-line with our mid-to-long term currency neutral annual EPS growth targets which we have achieved or surpassed every year of our existence as an independent public company.<br><br>The excise tax and regulatory environment we believe are manageable.
The pricing environment remains favorable and we have already achieved 75% of the pricing that is baked into our 2013 guidance.
We forecast organic volume growth this year excluding the Philippines.
We have strong growth momentum Marlboro gained share in all four regions parliament achieved double digit volume growth and our business in the Asia and the EMO regions is in great shape.
The EU region remains fragile but we certainly do not anticipate a deterioration thus is the overall consumption trends we observed in 2012.<br><br>We forecast strong free cash flow growth excluding currency this year and we remain committed to generously rewarding our shareholders through attracted dividends and substantial share repurchase programs.<br><br>Since March 2008 we have returned the total of nearly $50 billion to our shareholders and repurchased 23.2% of the shares outstanding at the time of the spend.
Thank you for your attention.
Jacek and I will now be happy to answer your questions.
in the Philippines we have mentioned for some time and that’s baked into our guidance.
I have to say that Southern Europe as I mentioned in my remarks continuous to be fragile as opposed to what others may have said we have actually have not detected a deterioration in trends.
In fact if you look at fourth quarter trends they were better in every single market in the European Union with the exception of Spain and Italy whether you look at it from a total cigarette point of view or cigarette including OTP.
France has been a slightly weaker because of the price increase but we have detected a significant improvement in the trend from October November December and even January now.<br><br>So the watch out is Southern Europe elsewhere we’re in great shape I think David.
I mean Asia and EEMA are growing strongly and growing in a quality manner.
If I look at EEMA alone and you look at their growth 60% of their growth came from pricing and 40% from volume mix which is quite a phenomenal achievement and if you go to Asia pricing was 70% but volume mix contributed 30%.
So I would say we’re in very good shape you have obviously a major competitor domiciled in Japan and with the weakness in the yen there is presumably some prospect that evidence whatsoever David.
In fact I was very encouraged that they increased their earning guidance to reflect the weakness of the yen.
So that’s a positive sign.
And I would say that in terms of pricing just on your volume for 2013 so if I understood you correctly you said Philippines down 20% 25% so that’s probably a negative 2 2.5 points of an impact.
If we assume that the underlying volume trend ex-Philippines kind of stay what we saw in 2012 up 2% ex-Japan we see organic volume growth of about 1% this year excluding the Philippines if you include the Philippines your calculation was right as to the impact of the Philippines was down about 1.5%.
We have had significant price increases in a number of markets.
Russia has been a significant price increase.
It’s being implemented in the market as we speak.
So it’s hard to gorge at this point what will happen in terms of volume.
We don’t anticipate a dramatic deterioration at all but it remains a watch-out.
Southern Europe as I said we believe that the trends are likely to remain the same as last year.
There could be upside Judy but it’s a bit early to call that we will see as the year unfolds and certainly when Jacek takes you through the April – in April through the first quarter we should have a much better read of Europe.
So that’s where we stand you have got now about 55% of the profit coming from sort of the non-OECDs and excluding Japan and Europe and those markets are growing profit double-digits.
So when I think about your long-term growth algorithm 6% to 8% if you can maintain that 55% of your business growing at a double-digit you probably only need flattish kind of growth in Europe and in Japan from an operating profit perspective.
So I guess my question is kind of is there upside to that Europe I think your analysis is very accurate Judy.
We have always said that we feel that European Union one day will come back but we need to see some meaningful assets to get the employment rates back up.
And the economies remain fragile and there is still quite a lot of restructuring to do but we are somewhat optimistic that government seemed to be now weary of the austerity push and are trying to focus a bit more on employment.
So yes if the EU were to improve that would obviously increase our growth capacity.<br><br>As to Japan I would say one of the highlights for me anyway of Japan in 2012 was that the market was relatively stable relative to the secular decline trend that we had witnessed previously.
So we enter the year with a pretty strong market.
Our share as you noticed increased sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter so we hit 27.7% which admittedly was lower than our exit share in 2011 but if I look at our January share in Japan it was 28.3% so Japan volume I think has so that’s helpful.
I guess I also have a question on Asian and specifically Indonesia very impressive growth as you highlighted for us.
So you know as I look back at some of my modeling work you know it looks like your profits in Indonesia can actually soon surpass the profits you generate in Japan.
So my first question is you know what’s a realistic growth forecast for this market in Indonesia and then could you maybe touch on potential opportunities you have in Thailand I think one day yes that is very possible.
You know it also relates to Judies question earlier you know the market in Indonesia has been growing at more than 8% back in 2011 and 2012.
This year we forecast a growth of 5% to 6%.
I think that also translates into higher pricing because cloth cost have increased significantly and they have increased for every player in the industry.
We see our variable costs increasing by about 3.5% going forward and half of that half the increase to total company relates to cloth cost so that will require pricing in Indonesia which may somewhat temporarily slow down the growth we have seen in the past couple of years.
Having said that we continue to feel optimistic that we will continue to gain share essentially all our brands gain share in 2012 so we have momentum.<br><br>So yes Indonesia is a jewel.
As to the rest of Asia we don’t see a major acceleration there has been equalization on fine cut.
So people – tax equalization on fine cut in number of places so people are moving back to cigarettes as I showed in Italy in my remarks.
Illicit trade continues to be a concern.
Our census last year it was about 11.1% of consumption relative to 10.4% in the previous year.
So we continue but there is still a lot of work to be done on risk assessment as well as clearly on the regulatory front.
In the meantime as I alluded to in my remarks we will be starting investments in setting up manufacturing capacity to those products I know Australia is a very small market for you as you know it was implemented effective December 1 there was a bit of turbulence in the market.
Retailers in particular found it very difficult to adapt.
Some of our competitors were slightly out of stock.
So our share was actually quite strong in December but all the daily sales we see and the research we’ve done there appears to be no change whatsoever in terms of sales levels incidence or brand choice.
Having said that it is still very very early days.
And we’ll see what happens over a long-term period.
And I think other governments will watch the Australian example very carefully.
And my sense is that wisdom would dictate that people would look at the Australian example before they take on this policy measure in terms of the BIT claim that is proceeding essentially according to schedule.
We still feel that the merits of our case is very strong but it will be a two-year process Erik.
There is not much more than I can say on that.
The arbitration panel has been formed.
The procedural elements have been set up.
And now there is a whole schedule of our claim being filed and then the responses from the government and then hearing et cetera but as I said it will be a two year process.
On the WTO aspect that claim is proceeding.
The very interesting thing is that there are some 31 countries that have asked for observer status including such major countries as China and I’m told that that is probably the highest ever level of countries that have asked for observer status which shows the interest there is on this issue in terms of plain packaging and the violation of trademark rights.<br><br>With regard to the European TPD on NGP is still early days Erik I mean that appears to be quite a robust market in terms of up trading I think over the last couple of years it has declined by 10 share points and that’s moving up to what we call value made and premium more recently premium as sort of been flattish.
As you know there has been quite a significant price increase as I mentioned earlier prices are actually coming into effect in the market as we speak.
The percentage gap between low value and premium actually is going to narrow and empirical evidence would suggest from various other markets that when the percentage gap comes down or narrows that generally actually helps up trading.
So we don’t really anticipate any change in the trend and we certainly anticipate continued shared growth with Parliament.
With regard to Marlboro as you know we have put in a number of new products to enhance the brand equity of the brands we said it would take quite a long time.
Share has been pretty well flat over the last four months which is already an improvement over the erosion the brand has suffered in the past with the increase and the unemployment and the rates declined that we have seen in volumes I think it's really purchasing power has declined quite considerably so people are looking for cheaper alternatives.
Governments have noticed that and they are trying to both equalize the tax burden on fine cut and cigarettes to protect their revenues and also there is clearly a renewed effort to try to fight contraband and especially the advent of illicit rights and counterfeit.
It’s actually quite ironic that the European Union Tobacco Products Directive when tobacco product represents some 11% of consumption in Europe they want to ban slims and menthol that are about 10% of consumption.
That’s the size of the French market or the Spanish market in fact slightly higher.
So there is a lot to be done on this TBD just regarding the exports are going to Japan we try to hedge it occasionally.
And this year we have hedged 50% of our exposure.
We did it several months ago so obviously at attractive rates relative to the spot rate.
Nevertheless we still have 50% exposure on the remaining balance we know about it the trade load in the fourth quarter I think you mentioned out there just sort of 60 basis points.
So okay I just had two questions for you.
The first one a bit of a follow-on there to Jonathan’s question regarding the inventory overall helped your volume in the quarter and then I have a follow-up question for you also about the EU and it’s just kind of a bigger picture question if you will.
In the current environment that we are in where you have volumes going down at a more aggressive rate you have had some pretty good price realizations still to help to offset that.
I guess I am just curious maybe it’s just from a fixed cost standpoint or what you need to do to help keep profitability flat or even growing that market first Chris we don’t see a deterioration in the volume trends.
And your question was premised on a sort of more aggressive down trend which we really don’t see.
And as I mentioned to Judy earlier there maybe upside but it’s a bit early to call.
With regard to cost structure we have always been very careful to ensure that we are as cost efficient as possible.
Our European factories supply a number of markets.
So can you talk a little bit about I guess the Cadence of new products flow we think we have a pretty good program in place for 2013.
Our launch is in 2012 we’re pretty successful so we actually believe we can continue to gain share in Japan you know we said that the exit share was the base on which to go forward you know that was probably an ambitious target because you know JT probably hadn’t gone back to it's normal share but certainly the January trend looks very favorable and given the product innovation we have going forward we see opportunity it's been a while I think for your point since you’ve seen it normalized volume number I realize it's early and it could certainly fluctuate but with currency being such a headwind last year it's a little surprising that your guidance would be less than you did already was there some other we felt it stock price was clearly very undervalued I think possibly because of some sort of regulatory concerns or profit taking so we took the opportunity to buy more shares what we thought was a very attractive price.
It's I think a very generous target and then just looking at your business in Korea it looks like your 4Q share was a little less than your full year share but I know there is an uneven pacing there so clearly January February we had a high share and we suffered after the price increase.
However our share has essentially been flat at about for the last I would say seven months.
So in terms of share we are in relatively good shape in Korea.
What needs to happen in Korea is a reform of excise taxes and there are various proposals in legislature.
As you know I mean in the meantime do you have anything else that could bridge the gap like innovation pipeline or something else that could help share besides more narrow share gaps most definitely we have a program in place to launch some pretty exciting new products as we did last year.
So our ambition is to gain share.
Our profitability in Korea increased significantly last year because of our price increase.
And I think our brand equity remains very strong in particular though with Parliament.
And as I mentioned in my remarks that’s helpful.
And then in Indonesia you share gains last year obviously were pretty significant but you have several years where that’s been the case? And I love to get a sense for what a sustainable trajectory looks like? Is the source of share primarily the 20% to 25% of the category that’s small fragmented players so that you have got a sort of a deep pool from what you can continue to draw or what are some of the dynamics there that’s certainly one of the sources especially as the government continues to narrow the various tax tiers in the tax metrics but I would say that our major competitive advantage is the investments we have made in our distribution infrastructure and field forces and in terms of our brand equities.
So we feel very good about our share performance in the past and our future prospects for share growth.
I would also say that because of the strength of the economy there is clearly an up-trading trend and our share in the upper price segment is significantly higher than our total share of the market.
So we have then grown share growth built-in as those trends continue.
And we see no reason why they should not continue.
As you are probably aware they dramatically increased minimum wage rates in Indonesia recently.
So I know an endorsement or approval or whatever the proper term is from the FDA would be sort of a passport to just about any market but given the unpredictability of this administration in particular or just they don’t seem to be in any rush to support tobacco companies so what are the options without that how big of a hurdle is it to have that clearly the FDA would be very helpful and we have engaged with the FDA but it is not a pre-condition to launching these products elsewhere.
We are in discussions with regulators in various jurisdictions.
So that is an ongoing effort that’s parallel to the one that’s going on with the FDA.
FDA support will clearly be very helpful what’s your level of confidence for this 20% to 25% volume impact if I remember correctly the volume impact in Japan was supposed to be somewhat turn out to be much less dramatic Well you know I would hope it would follow the Japanese example I think the Philippines is doing well economically worker remittance is continued to increase.
So the macros look quite favorable nevertheless it's a significant price increase.
My concern Thilo is really the advent of contraband and as you know there is a lot of contraband product in other categories in the Philippines and also potentially tax avoidance by some of the other players which we have seen in the past.
So hopefully the government can plan down on that they have said that they would have institute of very strict product tracking and tracing systems at the manufacturing end.
Listen today as I said in my remarks it's a hard one to call you look at tax increases in the Philippines Indonesia stood out in the first half first as if they remain the bright spot in Q4 Turkey Indonesia Mexico Brazil pretty well everywhere at the moment.
Philippines was somewhat distorted because there was trade loading by the competitors but we see if I look at Vietnam Malaysia have you not see any sequential deterioration in volume trends.
It looks like the total market was down 7% in Q4 there will continue to be a ramp up that was in ‘12 and there is actually going to be what we forecast a considerable ramp up in 2013 of the Be Marlboro campaign and all the consumer engagement try to engage programs that we have as they are slowly rolled out across the world.
In terms of JT the partial privatization I think nobody is quite aware of the timing and we’ll see when that happens.
It may trigger JT’s desire to increase prices or enhance their ability to do so.
If JT were to increase prices that will be terrific news and yes how do you incorporate that into your outlook great.
And then I always like to ask about leaf cost and listening to your comments about expecting moderate increase in leaf prices in ‘13 is that trend in pricing in line with your expectations following your vertical integration move thank you very much for joining us.
That does conclude our call for today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact the IR team.
We are currently in New York today and tomorrow.
And just as a reminder our next presentation will be at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York or CAGNY Conference in Boca Raton Florida on Wednesday February 20 and that presentation will also be webcast.
So