Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Now I'll turn the conference over to your host Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the first quarter of 2013 as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
As our first quarter report shows today the year is off to a strong start with RAI delivering substantially higher earnings and margins.
All of our operating companies saw gains in first quarter operating income and margin while continuing to improve their positioning of their key brands in the competitive marketplace.
Before I discuss performance in more detail I'll touch on a major recent development.
As you probably know R.J.
Reynolds and various other tobacco manufacturers reached a settlement with 20 jurisdictions to resolve a massive settlement agreement NPM disputes for 2003 through 2012.
This agreement will provide a significant benefit to our largest operating company R.J.
Reynolds to a lower MSA cost over the next 4 years.
As you can see from our results today the company's already benefiting from the agreement.
Now I'll discuss performance in more depth.
Industry cigarette volumes were soft for the quarter and that was driven by several factors.
There is no doubt that the ongoing economic weakness continues to present challenges.
In addition to that consumers' disposable income suffered another hit with the expiration of the payrolls past holiday.
This past impact combined with higher energy prices and continued high unemployment all contributed to the negative impact on cigarette volumes.
In addition and this was a big factor all of our reportable segments had 2 fewer shipping days in the first quarter as compared to the prior year.
I would note that this will turn around as we move through the year with one additional shipping day in both the second and third quarters.
So in total there will be no difference for the year.
So with respect to performance overall I'm really pleased with the way that our operating companies managed their businesses delivering share gains on each of their key brands in what continues to be a challenging environment.
Our companies have the right strategies and they continue to execute well.
They remain focused on initiatives.
They are enhancing the equity of their key brands while delivering innovations that would meet the changing preferences of adult tobacco consumers and drive long-term sustainable growth.
We also reported a number of other achievements in the first quarter with innovation remaining a key driver of change in the transformation of the tobacco industry.
R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company is making excellent progress in the development of its Vuse e-cigarettes.
Vuse is quite different to what's currently available in this fast-growing category.
And we believe that this innovative product will offer adult tobacco consumers a vapor experience that's significantly superior.
R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company has exciting plans for the further expansion of Vuse this year.
And you'll be hearing more about Vuse soon.
In addition Niconovum USA is moving ahead with the Zonnic nicotine replacement therapy gum another innovative product that forms part of our efforts to reduce the harm caused by smoking.
Zonnic entered the Des Moines Iowa market last September and Niconovum is getting good feedback that is helping to shape the brand's plans.
So as the year unfolds we expect increased investments in Vuse and other innovations.
And of course there'll be continued spending on the equity-building initiative for our operating companies' key brands.
These investments for long-term success are reflected in RAI's guidance for 2013 together with the impact of the partial resolution of the NPM disputes.
And as we reported earlier we are reaffirming our guidance for the year with expectations of earnings growth in the range of 6% to 11% ahead of 2012's adjusted results.
Now I'll provide more details on our operating companies.
At R.J.
Reynolds the company delivered solid underlying performance that benefited from higher pricing productivity improvement and lower MSA cost in what continues to be a very competitive environment.
As I've already mentioned the company's cigarette volumes were distorted by 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds' first quarter shipment volume declined 8.7% from the prior year quarter.
However when adjusted for the difference in shipping days the decline was actually about 5.6%.
Industry wholesale inventories were a little changed at approximately 7 billion units at the end of the first quarter up about 100 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.9 billion were up about 100 million.
R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share was down 0.6 percentage point at 26.1%.
Once again this was driven by declines in the company's nonfocused value brands primarily Doral which fell 0.5 share point in the quarter.
However in contrast share performance was actually quite good on R.J.
Reynolds' two growth brands.
Camel and Pall Mall reported a combined market share of 17.5% which was an increase of 0.6 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
And these brands now account for over 2/3 of R.J.
Reynolds' total market share.
Camel's premium menthol styles continue to generate strong interest from adult tobacco consumers and Camel's overall first quarter market share increased by 0.1 percentage point to 8.5%.
Camel's menthol styles gained 0.5 percentage point to 3.3% and now accounts for almost 40% of Camel's total share.
That's quite an achievement and it demonstrates the importance of Camel's innovative capital style within this iconic brand portfolio.
Camel SNUS continues to perform well in the small but growing snus category.
The latest enhancement to Camel SNUS is a Fresh Seal packaging and R.J.
Reynolds expects this upgrade to strengthen the position of Camel SNUS in the marketplace.
Now turning to Pall Mall.
As we said earlier this year Pall Mall finished 2012 with renewed momentum and it's fair to say that the brand maintained that momentum through the first quarter.
Despite the fact that the brand faced significant competitive pressure Pall Mall gained 0.5 share point in the first quarter growing to 9% of the market.
I'm very pleased with this growth and how the recent expansion of Pall Mall's menthol portfolio is contributing to the brand's performance.
Now turning to American Snuff.
The company again delivered excellent results in the first quarter.
American Snuff reported a double-digit increase in operating income driven by higher moist-snuff volume and pricing.
American Snuff's first quarter moist-snuff volume increased by just over 1%.
The comparison was challenging due to the 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter as well as the timing of promotional shipments in the prior year quarter.
From a market share standpoint the company continued its growth trend gaining 0.8 percentage point to a record 33%.
And that performance was driven once again by the company's flagship Grizzly brand which remains the nation's #1 moist-snuff brand.
Grizzly reported first quarter market share of almost 30% which was up over 1 percentage point.
Now turning to Santa Fe's first quarter performance.
The company reported strong growth in adjusted operating income volume and share.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand continues to make substantial gains in the super premium priced market.
The brand's volume increased 14.7% from the prior year period.
In addition Natural American Spirit which is expanding its consumer engagement program increased its share of market 0.2% to 1.3%.
As part of Santa Fe's initiative to build brand equity the company had partnered with TerraCycle in a nationwide project to clean up cigarette butt waste.
That's the kind of commitment to environmental sustainability that has helped build Natural American Spirit's loyal consumer following.
So those are some of the quarter's major highlights.
And although there will be challenges in the months ahead Reynolds American and its operating companies are adept at finding new opportunities for growth and are well positioned for continued success.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
RAI delivered good growth in the first quarter with substantially higher earnings and margins as a result of strong performance by our operating companies as well as the benefit of lower MSA cost.
And as Dan has already mentioned we're reaffirming our guidance for the full year with adjusted EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.30.
This guidance excludes the credit against the 2013 MSA payment for the 2012 volume year and implementation costs.
It also reflects the investments needed to expand Vuse in the market and continue to develop other innovations while building equity in our operating companies' key brands.
In the first quarter Reynolds American's adjusted EPS benefited from several factors including higher pricing and productivity improvements and the resolution of the NPM disputes with 20 jurisdictions including Oklahoma which recently joined the settlement.
These results also reflected the favorable impact of our share repurchase program.
Accordingly RAI's adjusted EPS increased 14.3% from the prior year quarter to $0.72.
These adjusted results exclude the 2013 MSA payment credit as well as implementation costs.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.92 up more than 90% from the prior year quarter.
I'm also pleased with RAI's strong adjusted operating margin growth in the quarter which increased by 3.7 percentage points to 36.6%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds generated solid earnings growth in the first quarter despite the soft cigarette volumes with adjusted operating income increasing 9.2% to $563 million.
The company's first quarter adjusted operating margin also jumped 4.4 percentage points to 36% and I would note here that this reflects the company's continued focus on balancing profitability and share.
Our moist-snuff business also performed well benefiting from higher pricing and volume growth.
As a result American Snuff increased first quarter operating income by just over 10% from the prior year quarter to $93 million.
And the company's operating margin also rose by 2.5 percentage points to 55.7%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company continues to be a key contributor to RAI's bottom line with adjusted operating income up 15.5% to $52 million in the first quarter.
Santa Fe's first quarter adjusted operating margin was a very strong 45.2% which was up 0.2 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Now let me cover several other financial highlights.
RAI ended the first quarter with $2.8 billion in cash balances.
But as you know last week R.J.
Reynolds satisfied its MSA obligation of $1.84 billion which was reduced by a credit of $202 million from the partial resolution of the NPM disputes.
With respect to our share repurchase program RAI purchased 6.8 million shares for $300 million in the quarter and that brought total share repurchases under the plan to date to 38.6 million shares for $1.6 billion.
I would also note that RAI borrowed $500 million on April 10 under our previously announced term loan agreement.
So that wraps up a strong set of results for RAI and its operating companies.
Our companies offer strong platforms for profitable growth this year and we continue to look for opportunities to enhance value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] First question is from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions for you.
I want to ask you first of all if you could just characterize the promotional spending in the quarter? You've mentioned before Dan about it's gotten better through the quarter.
Can you just characterize kind of where you see the overall category level standing today from a promotional standpoint? Yes I would characterize the total promotional spend in the cigarette category to be relatively constant.
I don't think we saw significant variation during the quarter.
I do think that the nature of the spend is slowly changing a little bit in the category.
There seems to be a slightly less emphasis on the actual rate of buy downs so the promotional spend that spread all widely across all packs in most stores.
But we are seeing a shift of some of those resources to prepacked promotions in the category.
But in aggregate I would describe the total promotional spend in the category as being relatively stable in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second -- just a sort of follow-on to that question in relation to industry volumes.
And I want to ask first if the -- did the whole category have 2 fewer shipping days in the quarter therefore were underlying volumes down closer to 3% for the category? Would that be a fair representation? I just want to again get a sense of what you see that doing for the year for 2013? Yes.
Obviously I'm not going to speak for our competitors but I can tell you that we had 2 fewer shipping days during the quarter which obviously impacted the volumes in the cigarette category but also in moist snuff.
And I do think it's fair to say that the volume performance -- the quarter started out weaker but we did see some improvement in terms of volume trends during the quarter.
I kind of look at the category -- I think it's fair to characterize that as being down maybe slightly ahead of what we might have expected coming into the year.
And I think that's largely due to the payroll tax holiday also some of the energy prices and some of the sticker shock that consumers were getting at the pump.
But given the relative sort of pricing changes year-over-year I think I would have coming into the quarter expected that the category will be slightly better than it turned out to be -- or sorry the category is slightly worse than I would have expected it to be.
Our next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-on question to Chris's last question about the industry volumes being down.
Dan do you see -- or I guess I'd be curious to hear from you or your opinion whether e-cigs are playing a role on putting pressure on this industry volume potential slowdown? Yes Bonnie.
First of all thank you for your question.
Obviously the e-cigarette category we do -- according to our sort of tracking it does continue to grow.
So I don't think I could state that it didn't have an impact.
But I don't believe that was a major driver of category performance in the quarter.
But of course it would have had a small impact on the cigarette category.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I do have a question on the MSA credit.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how much a credit you've reinvested? And then how much you're possibly letting flow to the bottom line? If I look at your cigarette segment your per unit cost excluding the MSA the expense and then the FDA fees that cost went up 49% in the quarter which equates to around $211 million.
So it does suggest you did in fact spend back your credit works but then if you look at your ongoing MSA payments they're quite a bit lower after excluding the onetime credit.
So I just kind of want to think about how we should think about this going forward? How we should model this? Bonnie this is Tom.
The way that we look at this is based -- and the way that we are operating today is basically what we told on you in our year-end call and that is that we would reinvest a portion of these proceeds in our innovations products Vuse and others as well as in equity building programs for the brands.
And we have stayed true to that statement.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay it's just a portion.
All right.
And maybe a different question about the different cost buckets.
Meaning I understand then why your SG&amp;A expense for the total company was up around 30% in the quarter suggesting the items you just mentioned.
But I'm also trying to understand why are your cost was up so much? Which costs are you talking about Bonnie? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
For your entire company your cost of goods sold was up quite a bit in the quarter on a year-over-year basis? I am not looking at the same numbers that you are I'm sorry.
The next question is from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question I guess -- is more big picture on the market share.
I mean it strikes me as you guys as long as Pall Mall and Camel are picking up share all is good in terms of how you think about spending levels.
But is there a threshold for your overall market share that you guys just are unwilling to go below? Just trying to get a sense of the tolerance [ph] here in terms of the nonsupports and the other nonfocus brands? Yes I think Nik unfortunately I can't answer your question directly sort of with a firm statement and a specific number.
But I can tell you that we're proud with what we've actually achieved this last quarter and as you already referenced the sort of significant growth on our growth brands at R.J.
Reynolds specifically Camel and Pall Mall being up 0.6 percentage point.
I think the other thing I would point to is kind of what the shape is in terms of the decline in terms of some of the rest of the portfolio.
So if you take a look of those brands the majority of that decline is actually counted for by Doral which was down 0.5 share point.
And Doral as you know is a value brand in the marketplace.
So when we look at the shape of the total portfolio I think it's trending in a direction that we like.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other question just real quick Dan any thoughts on excise tax? Just kind of how you think about that as for the year? You guys usually give an estimate in terms of what you think the tax increase will be on a weighted average basis.
Yes I think a couple.
There's always been some new developments on that side.
But let me touch on the SET's first for this year.
In our last call I actually stated that we were expecting less than $0.10 for 2013 and our expectation is that it's still correct.
We're still expecting less than $0.10.
There's been none yet.
So it's been fairly quiet so far in terms of actually things passing.
Now there's been plenty of bills introduced in different jurisdictions.
I think the one state that we're keeping a very close eye on as we sit here today is obviously California.
There's been certainly some legislation that's been kind of muted in that state but that's sort of one outlier which because of the size of the state has a very significant national average impact.
And then in addition to that there's been Obama administration has proposed a $0.94 SET.
That we do not expect to pass.
But of course when we look at that kind of environment and given the source of that proposal it may give others ideas into the future.
So that probably puts a little bit more of a watch out on that side in the coming years.
The next question is from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan given your comments about the promotional environment how would you describe your ability to drive pricing for the rest of the year? Well I mean rather than to talk so much about the future I think it's better to just talk in terms of what we achieved in the quarter itself.
And if you take a look we sort of from a company-wide point of view we had a net pricing realization of 4% in the quarter.
Now I just want to remind the listeners that's excluding the contract manufacturing so excluding the net price realization we have on some of the contract manufacturing we do for BAT in Japan.
But I think that 4% is a very healthy number.
It's certainly up from the year average of last year of 2.5%.
And so I think we're marginally more confident in the category pricing as we sit here today than we were last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan if you don't want us to think about the future you're putting all of us out of a job.
I'm happy to help you think about the future but it's hard to actually give you specific numbers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
But since you want to talk about the quarter and in my math it doesn't look like you were able to take any pricing on Natural American Spirit.
Why would that be? All right.
I think in the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company what we did there on NAS we started some of the investment programs that we began to highlight in our last quarterly call.
So we did step up some of our equity-building spend there and that's what you're actually seeing.
You see that reflected in the adjusted operating margin of that company as well.
Having said that the volume grew so significantly at that company during the quarter.
What we actually saw is its market share increasing 0.2 percentage point now up at 1.3 national market share points.
So I think actually what we're -- the best way to kind of think about that is we are reinvesting some of the dollars generated by its organic growth as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question from me.
Currently Mayor Bloomberg in New York is proposing to increase the age to buy cigarettes from 18 to 21.
Is that -- are proposals like that are those a concern for you? Do you think this could actually realistically happen? And how worried are you? What impact that would that have on volumes? Well let me just give you a little bit of a perspective.
All the jurisdictions in the United States currently have a legal age to buy tobacco products.
It's either 18 and in a few outliers it's 19.
The proposal here is to take that to 21.
I think my generic thoughts on it is there are -- there's quite a bit of regulation in the category already as we sit here today.
And I don't believe the category is actually best served by significant additional new regulation but I do think that a lot of these local jurisdictions should be thinking much more about the diligent enforcement of some of the existing regulations.
I'm thinking about that particularly as it relates to tax collection some of the movement of goods across different jurisdictions which by the way also means that the other regulations aren't enforced when things like that move through some of those shadow channels.
The next question is from Michael Luddy of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on RJRT the per stick profitability was up really significantly 19% 20%.
Was this just a matter of timing on cost savings? Or can you talk a little bit about the phasing in the profitability through the year? Well this is Tom Michael.
The profitability was driven by the net price realization at Reynolds Tobacco as well as some favorable benefit by -- from the MSA as well as our cost saving initiatives which are on track to meet these milestones that we have put out there in the metrics by 2015 excuse me.
Research Division</strong> So there wasn't anything strange there just because if you were to keep that per unit profitability at least it would be -- you'd be well ahead of your guidance? But it just may be that the fact that you have I guess similar cost savings amount in the first quarter with the rest of the year but you had a lower base because of the 2 less selling days? We did have a lower base because of the 2 less selling days and we will continue to make investments around the equity-building programs of the Reynolds Tobacco brands Camel and Pall Mall as we move through the year.
Our next question is from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan first let's -- can we revisit the volume for one sec? Do you worry that perhaps there's something else going on? Just given the traditional resiliency there obviously have been prior periods of time so with spikes in gas prices perhaps nothing analogous to the end of the payroll tax holiday.
But if you think more broadly about it could there be something else going on in consumer behavior? Maybe because these dynamics occurred when consumers think about New Year's resolutions to stop smoking? Could that have sort of created a more pronounced short-term impact? Well I think David obviously speculation is relatively easy but when we actually started analyzing the numbers the -- really it seemed to correlate to us most with that payroll tax holiday and some of these energy price shocks.
And we don't have any evidence of any other significant factor coming into the numbers.
And really to kind of emphasize and highlight that point as we did see that the volumes improve through the quarter which I think is very important.
And so really we believe the most significant impact was from those 2 factors.
But I do think it's fair to say and I said this earlier on the call as well that the decline is slightly ahead of our expectations given some of the pricing dynamics and taxation dynamics in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> In the absence Dan of a disruptive excise tax increase do you think that the spot rate of decline later in the year can move towards or more towards the traditional decline rate? I think that is our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just 2 other things.
Dan why do you think or what is your intelligence tell you if anything as to why there was a change in leadership at the Tobacco Products division of the FDA? And what do you think the implications of that change may be? Well obviously it's hard for me to speculate as to what actually prompted that change.
But I do think that given the new director in place that there is going to be a probably more significant or at least a speeding up of some of the activity at the FDA.
And certainly in some of the initials -- sort of more public pronouncement coming from Zeller the focus seems to be on menthol some of the deeming regulations in terms of some of the other tobacco/ nicotine categories and on substantial equivalent documentation.
So we're obviously ready for any scenario as a company and are actively engaging with the FDA on a number of different fronts as we navigate this new regulatory environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dan lastly it's early days but do you see any evidence of a change in the pacing of the Engle progeny cases following the Florida Supreme Court's decision in Douglas? We are not seeing any significant changes that way.
I think the most significant thing in terms of the Engle process for people to keep an eye on is actually the appeals to the 11th Circuit which were filed in the Walker Duke and McRae cases.
And those are -- obviously we're reviewing our due process argument.
And I think that is probably the key area for folks to keep an eye on.
Our next question is from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could share with us your thoughts around potential expectations to come back to the debt market either later this year for potential liability management or to address the term loan that you've just took out? Sure Priya.
This is Tom Adams.
I as you referenced we drew down on our term loan on April 10 $500 million at an interest rate of about 1.7%.
We will now begin to build cash in addition to that through our operations all during the year.
We do have a view on looking at the debt markets but the timing of that will really be dependent on the other cash needs we have.
Our capital expenditures will be up slightly this year versus last year.
And last year we ended around $88 million.
This year probably closer to -- a little bit less than $140 million some of that driven by the capital spending on our e-cigarette project Vuse.
So we'll continue to watch it and as you know it doesn't benefit us significantly taking up a lot of debt and just carrying that cash because it tends to be very expensive.
Research Division</strong> And what about the view around liability management at all? Is that something that you evaluated? I know you discussed it at the Analyst Meeting.
We obviously look at that.
And at this juncture we're actually very comfortable with where we are.
And we have a $750 million revolving credit facility that we can access.
And so we're -- we believe that we're in good shape from a liquidity standpoint.
Our next question is from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One if you could comment Dan on the consumer behavior in the quarter as it progressed? And how that behavior tracked versus your expectations going into the year with the known challenges? Yes I think I've referenced obviously those 2 things that I mentioned earlier which is our payroll tax holiday and the gas price shock.
And I think really the way we looked at it was the consumer really had kind of just a shock hit to their disposable income.
And it would have been the sticker shock when they actually tried to fill up their gas tanks at retail and particularly made the first paychecks that hit in January.
And -- but I also think it's fair to say that that was the initial shock.
It did recover during the quarter.
And so we saw nice recovery as the quarter sort of went out and that happened week in week out during the quarter.
So really from my perspective the year started out significantly weaker than we might have expected but happy to report that we saw some sequential week-over-week kind of improvement on that throughout the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then do you anticipate any SC equivalent reports responses this year? Is there any kind of update on that progress on the SC front? Oh Anne how much I wish I had a very good and specific answer for you there.
But honestly I think it's anybody's guess at this stage.
We're not getting -- how would I say -- significant indications or clear indications from the agency as to when we might see some actual rulings or the SCs coming out.
I would say that there are significant interaction in terms of some of the requests for information going back and forth about the specific items that we had submitted on existing SCs.
Our next question is from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you talked about the sequential volume improvement over the course of the quarter.
What did pricing and discounting look like? Did that deteriorate to help the volumes? Or was it just more macro? Can you give us more color on that? Yes it felt really that it was a macro category kind of rebounding somewhat during the quarter.
Don't believe it was actually promotional spend-led.
We would characterize the quarter in aggregate as being relatively stable.
So still very competitive but relatively stable from a total promotional pressure point of view.
Research Division</strong> And so -- by that do you also mean just in terms of over the course of the quarter it was stable? And how does it look so far into April? I mean do you have any signs to see a turn? Or is it holding up into Q2 as well? Yes I think the promotional environment really -- there wasn't any significant shift during the quarter.
And I think that that has for all intents and purposes held to-date.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then just one other question on e-cigarettes.
I know you've said you'll have more to come but do you have any more specific sense of timing? Or when some of the launch and related spending might get going? Well I'm not at liberty to give you the exact timing of our plans.
But I think it's fair to say that that is quite imminent in terms of our activities with our Vuse e-cigarette.
And this is a product that we're quite proud of just because it is quite a innovative product.
We believe that it is significantly differentiated than anything in the category today.
And we think it actually addresses consumer needs better than anything in the category.
In terms of the associated spend with it I do think it's fair to say that we have begun already to make some of those investments as we get ready for it.
In terms of our income statement you'll actually see that reflected in the All Other Line in terms of some of those spends flowing through.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Chris Ferrara from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Hey a pretty simple question.
I guess there doesn't seem to be a consensus view on this so I thought I'd ask.
Hypothetically a $0.94 SET increase is that good for you in the category? Or bad for you in the category? And is that something you typically would lobby against? I think it's not a good development for the category.
The category has a price sensitivity of demand which has held relatively constant and obviously it may not hold week to week or exact a quarter-to-quarter but in aggregate year-over-year has remained relatively constant.
And so any type of additional taxation that drives consumer prices up is a negative drag on the category.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I just wanted to make sure.
I guess Dan you talked about liking the direction the portfolio is trending.
I think your point was just that you've seen a leveling out of the nongrowth brands.
I guess can you characterize what you'd view as sort of at risk share? Now that it's only 1/3 of your share points and I know Doral is the majority of what's losing share now.
What are the at risk share points? Like what are you willing to lose? And when might you see this level out? Research Division</strong> Well I think we look at it certainly from a trending point of view.
And given that we look at it that way I think your observation and conclusions are correct in the sense that the support and nonsupport brands i.e everything excluding Camel and Pall Mall at RJRT that the trend lines appear to be getting a little bit better particularly when we back out the Doral brand which is accounting for the majority of the decline.
And given a lot of the pricing pressure in the category and the advent of this new price tier and we call it premium value price tiers these are low-price line extensions of the 2 largest premium brands in the markets specifically Marlboro and Newport.
I think it's not surprising some of these dynamics and what's actually happened on our support and nonsupport brands and particularly what's happened to Doral.
It does feel like the category is slowly coming to a new equilibrium within it.
And of course we are very focused on our growth brands at RJRT particularly Camel and Pall Mall which posted nice year-over-year growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last one.
You said obviously the year didn't start off well it started to recover.
And I apologize if you said this but is there any change to what your view is on the full year '13 industry sort of cigarette volume outlook? No I think our estimate is still at the moment is served roughly in line with historical tendencies.
So you'd be looking at right about 3% long-term.
Having said that we'll need to see how the category continues to recover over time as to whether it will be slightly over that or slightly below that.
Our next question is from -- we have a follow-up from Nik Modi of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick.
I was just looking at my notes from some of the other companies.
And they're indicating there's 1 less day this quarter and so I'm just trying to understand the 2 days that you're talking about versus the 1 day that they're alluding to for this first quarter? Yes.
I'm not sure I know how to square that Nik.
All I can tell you is that we had 2 fewer shipping days during the quarter.
And we'll make up 1 in the second quarter and 1 in the third quarter.
So it kind of works itself out by the end of the year.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call over to Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
Should you have any additional questions please give us a call here at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.