Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll discuss Reynolds American's results for the second quarter and first half of 2013 as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this better reflects our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
I'm very happy with our results in the second quarter which contributed to solid growth in RAI's earnings and margins for the first half of the year.
In addition we announced a dividend increase of almost 7% in May and that's further evidence of our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
I'm especially pleased by the excellent performance of our operating companies which continue to successfully navigate a tough environment while building momentum on their key brands.
Second quarter adjusted operating income improved at all of our companies and they also delivered big gains in the market share of their key brands.
In fact the combined cigarette market share of RAI's operating companies was stable in the quarter as the growth in key brands offset declines on the other non-focus brands.
Expertise efficiency and just plain hard work contributed to these results.
But perhaps the most critical thing our companies have going for them is their strategic focus.
We have the strategies in place that will enable us to meet and even exceed the expectations of adult consumers.
Key to that is our company's leadership and innovation in our industry.
The most recent demonstration of that leadership is the development of Vuse a game-changing digital e-cigarette.
As many of you know we announced last month that Vuse distribution will be expanded to its first major market Colorado.
Today I'm happy to report that this expansion is underway.
In the coming months we expect to gain valuable insights on the long-term potential of this exciting new product.
And with the expansion of Vuse we will obviously have more investment in the back half of the year.
Vuse delivers a digital vapor experience that is significantly superior to competitive products in this fast-growing category.
And like all innovative new products it will take RJR Vapor some time to build what we believe will be a commanding presence in the e-cigarette market.
So it's still early days for Vuse but we'll have a lot more to report later in the year.
As we've said previously building new platforms for long-term growth especially the highly differentiated Vuse e-cigarette takes significant resources.
And this increase in spending is reflected in our earnings guidance for the full year.
This morning we reaffirmed our guidance of adjusted EPS growth in the range of 6% to 11% above last year's adjusted results.
I'd note that our guidance also reflects investments in the equity building initiatives for our company's key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
During the quarter a big development on the external front was the FDA's first rulings on substantial equivalence.
The agency did not rule on any substantial equivalent submissions made to date by R.J.
Reynolds but we're encouraged by the FDA's progress on this front.
And we continue to work closely with the agency on a wide range of tobacco regulatory issues.
Now before I discuss the quarter's business performance in more depth let me add some perspective to the industry's cigarette volume decline which is running above historical trends this year.
As a reminder industry volume declined 2.3% last year which was lower than the historical trends and makes for a tougher comparison this year.
High unemployment higher retail cigarette prices and other economic factors continue to impact consumers' wallets and remained the key drivers of this volume decline.
More smokers are also switching to moist snuff and snus as demonstrated by the strong growth that we see in these categories.
That's been a big benefit for Grizzly and Camel SNUS.
And although new smoke-free technologies such as e-cigarettes are still a very small market compared to traditional cigarettes some smokers are clearly migrating to these products and the e-cigarette market is growing fast.
Hereto we are well positioned to take advantage of this growth with Vuse.
The precise impact of these factors on industry cigarette volumes is hard to quantify at this point but they are having an impact.
Industry volume declines have moderated since the first quarter and we expect an overall decline of 4% to 5% this year.
Not surprisingly the lower demand for cigarettes negatively impacted R.J.
Reynolds in the second quarter but this was more than offset by higher pricing and lower MSA costs.
In fact the company reported substantial gains in both adjusted operating income and margin.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter shipment volumes declined 6% from the prior year quarter while industry volumes were down 6.1%.
As you may recall wholesale inventories were significantly higher in the second quarter last year as some wholesalers were speculating on a price increase.
This year the price increase came in early June and inventory levels had returned to more normal levels by the end of the quarter.
When adjusted for wholesale inventory changes industry cigarette volumes were down about 4.3% in the quarter.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 7.1 billion units at the end of the second quarter down about 1.3 billion from the prior year while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 2 billion were down about 200 million.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share of 26% was down 0.3 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
I would note that the company's total share decline continued to moderate as growth brand share gains largely offset declines on the company's non-focus brands.
Indeed both Camel and Pall Mall performed extremely well in what was still a very competitive marketplace.
I should add here that generally speaking the promotional environment remains relatively stable.
During the second quarter Camel and Pall Mall increased their combined market share by almost 1 percentage point from the prior year quarter to 17.6%.
This is a record for the combined brands and is testament to the effectiveness of the company's portfolio strategy which focuses on these 2 growth brands.
Camel's market share increased 0.4 of a percentage point in the quarter to 8.7%.
And once again Camel's premium menthol styles which use the innovative capsule technology were a key factor in the brand's strong performance.
These menthol styles added 0.6 of a percentage point in market share from the prior year quarter and stand at 3.4%.
And I'm very pleased with how the brand's capsule styles are continuing to strengthen Camel's demographic profile.
In addition Camel SNUS maintained its lead on the growing snus category despite significant competitive promotional activity.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to enhance this product with innovations like the fresh seal packaging that was introduced earlier this year.
Now turning to Pall Mall.
The brand continues to build market momentum with share growing 0.5 a percentage point in the second quarter to 8.9%.
Pall Mall is benefiting from its expanded menthol portfolio while identifying new opportunities for additional trial and conversion.
Value-conscious smokers know a great deal when they see it.
And Pall Mall is a longer lasting cigarette at an affordable price fits the bill.
And at American Snuff.
The company's strong growth continued to pace in the second quarter with a double-digit increase in adjusted operating income and higher operating margin.
American Snuff second quarter moist snuff volume increased by nearly 9.5% which was once again well ahead of the industry's growth rate of about 5%.
And the company's market share also gained increasing 0.7 of a percentage point to just over 33%.
Grizzly strengthened its position as the nation's #1 moist-snuff brand reporting an increase of 10.6% in the second quarter shipment volume.
And the brands market share of 30% was up a full percentage point.
Grizzly's pouch sales helped drive the brand's momentum as pouch styles rose just over 1 percentage point in the second quarter and captured almost 80% of total share growth in the pouch segment.
Competition is still intense in the moist-snuff category but the fundamental strength of Grizzly combined with a great marketing and sales team allowed the brand to deliver excellent results.
So that wrapped up an excellent first half for American Snuff.
But not to be outdone Santa Fe had another terrific quarter.
The company's performance benefited from higher volume and pricing which drove double-digit growth in adjusted operating income.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand continues to strengthen its position in the super premium priced cigarette market offering distinctive additive-free natural tobacco styles including styles made with organic tobacco.
The brand increased volume by 14.6% from the prior year quarter and its share of market rose 0.3 of a percentage point to 1.4%.
So all in all it was a very successful quarter for RAI and its operating companies.
We have a good wind at our backs which positions us well for the rest of the year.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American delivered a solid set of results in the second quarter wrapping up the first half with excellent momentum.
And I'm pleased to say we also further enhanced shareholder value in the quarter with a 6.8% increase in our dividend to an annualized $2.52 per share.
RAI's adjusted EPS benefited from a number of factors in the second quarter including higher cigarette and moist snuff pricing lower MSA cost promotional efficiencies and the impact of our share repurchase program.
As a result RAI's adjusted EPS increased 6.3% from the prior year quarter to $0.84.
These adjusted results exclude a onetime benefit of $0.02 related to 2 additional states joining the NPM settlement as well as charges of $0.01 for Engle progeny other tobacco-related litigation and $0.01 for implementation costs.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was also $0.84 up 7.7% from the prior year quarter.
That brought RAI's first half adjusted EPS to $1.56 up 10.6% from the prior year period.
And those adjusted results also exclude the items I've just mentioned.
On a reported basis first half adjusted EPS was $1.76 up almost 42%.
RAI's adjusted operating margin continued to strengthen coming in at 36.6% for both the second quarter and the first half.
So that successful performance keeps us on track to deliver full year adjusted EPS in the range of $3.15 to $3.30.
And as Dan said that's growth of 6% to 11% over last year's adjusted EPS.
Our guidance excludes the onetime benefit from the NPM partial settlement and the charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Our guidance also reflects the investments being made to expand Vuse e-cigarettes as well as equity-building initiatives for our company's key brands.
Now I'll turn to our operating companies performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedule at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds turned in good results increasing adjusted operating income by 9.8% to $662 million.
For the first half adjusted operating income came to just over $1.2 billion.
With the focus still very much on balancing profitability and share R.J.
Reynolds second quarter adjusted operating margin increased 3.9 percentage points to 36.9% and that brought first half adjusted operating margin to 36.5%.
At American Snuff the second quarter was supported by higher pricing and strong volume growth.
Accordingly the company increased adjusted operating income by just over 15% from the prior year quarter to $109 million.
That brought first half adjusted operating income to $202 million up nearly 13%.
American Snuff's second quarter adjusted operating margin increased by 1.1 percentage points to 56.5% bringing the company's first half margin to 56.1%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company increased adjusted operating income 14% to $73 million in the second quarter.
For the first half Santa Fe's adjusted operating income rose by 14.6% to $125 million.
Santa Fe's second quarter adjusted operating margin remained relatively stable at 49.2% with first half margin at 47.5%.
Now finally there are several other financial highlights that I would like to cover.
RAI purchased 3.1 million shares for $150 million under the share repurchase plan bringing total repurchases under the program to 41.7 million shares for $1.8 billion.
The company ended the quarter with $1.7 billion in cash balances and this takes into account R.J.
Reynolds' MSA payment of $2.1 billion in April.
RAI borrowed $500 million under their previously announced term loan agreement.
And lastly RAI contributed $50 million to its pension plans in July and those plans remained well-funded at about 90% on a PBO basis.
So we're pleased with a very successful first half for RAI and its operating companies and we expect to make continued progress over the rest of the year.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A few things.
First Dan what do you think a reasonable expectation going forward is now for the rate of U.S.
cigarette industry volume decline if you look out next year let's say? Yes.
I think first of all David maybe just a little bit of perspective on what has happened so far this year.
And I think we're still predicting that 4% to 5% decline this year.
And of course we need to put that into perspective because it's a tough compare to last year as I mentioned in my remarks.
But really when we look further out over time I think it's likely that we're going to see a number that's sort of around that 4% kind of decline.
Maybe a little bit more moderated compared to what we see in this year.
Somewhere between that and the historical average.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly with the news out of the FDA yesterday with respect to menthol does the totality of what happened and all the information does that affect at all your assessment the internal assessment of what the FDA might ultimately do with respect to menthol or the timing of any ultimate action? No.
I don't think so David.
I mean we're reviewing this advance notice of -- this proposed rule making.
I think once we really have a chance to look at it and fully review the report in detail then we can actually make some decisions about our response.
I think we trust and actually we take the agency at its word that it will rely on sound science when making decisions about menthol.
But I think it's also fair to say that this regulatory process takes time and this is really just the first step.
And so as such I don't think we expect any impact on the marketplace in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then 2 other things.
A $0.15 guidance range you have 5 or 6 months left in the year.
The tails of that outcome are quite different growth rates.
What put you at the high end do you think? What put you at the low end of that range in retrospect as you go through the year? Is it the spending on Vuse? Is it the competitive environment with the cigarette categories? Are those probably the 2 principal things and uncertainties? I think David it's more of the latter than the former.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then lastly and maybe for Tom can you quantify the magnitude of the incremental ongoing reduction in MSA costs from 2 additional states coming into the agreement? On an annualized basis David I believe it's about $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so that would be the incremental 2013 favorability? Yes.
Annualized basis.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with Vuse.
I recognized it really is very early days but I was wondering if you could give us some insight into the rollout thus far in terms of store penetration or store count and any initial consumer response? Yes.
Vivien I think maybe it's a little bit early to talk about consumer response to Vuse because it's really being rolled out as we speak.
I think we're really sort of building up distribution and sort of have a week-to-week plan.
I think the first week out I think we were hitting about 500 stores and really looking to increase that sort of sequentially as we go week by week.
I think the response from the trade I can give you a few insights on so really from retailers has been extremely positive.
So happy to report that.
But I really think it's a little bit premature on the consumer side but certainly we can give you more insights on that front really over the coming weeks and months.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And as follow-up to that in terms of the product placement is a lot of that happening on the back bar or is it standalone displays for the products? No.
It really is exclusively on the back bar.
Of course given our responsibility platform it's really a clerk-assisted sale at retail.
So the actual display of the product is in back bar.
Now there are merchandising materials that are on the counter or inside the store but that isn't live product.
Research Division</strong> And my final question on has -- again is on Vuse.
And I'm just curious is it fair to assume that Colorado will be your only state in 2013 or are you considering a possibility of adding another state in the year? Yes.
Vivien I think it would be a little bit premature for me to telegraph our plans on that front.
But just as a general comment what I would make is that we're looking to expand distribution as quick as we can.
And our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
This is actually [indiscernible] Thilo's associate.
The question around RJRT it looks like in 2010 share losses stabilized because you shut down your private label business.
Since then they've averaged a loss of about 70 bps per year if my math is correct.
When can we expect kind of stabilization to happen again? And when do you expect it? Well let me take that and sort of talk about our quarterly and year-to-date numbers from a share perspective.
If we take a look at what's actually happened so far this year and take a look at the actual quarter what we see is RJRT in totality actually coming down 0.3 of a market share point.
So what we see is fantastic growth on Camel and Pall Mall.
They're collectively up just shy of a share point this year and we see continued declines on the nonsupport and support brands.
And that principally accounted for by Doral.
As a brand Doral which is down 0.4 of a market share point and that brand is now slightly under 1% share of market.
But of course from a corporate perspective we also have the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company with its key growth brand Natural American Spirit which is actually up 0.3.
So when we look at cigarettes in total between the 2 operating companies and the 2 segments that we report out we see in aggregate this quarter market share was actually stable.
And then in your Schedule 1 I see all other had an EBIT loss of $19 million.
Is this the start up cost from Vuse? And off of that can I expect further losses for the rest of the year? Can I expect further loss for the rest of the year? This is Tom.
Yes the Vapor company is included in all other.
And yes I think it's safe to assume that that will be a negative for the rest of the year.
Okay.
And just lastly in terms of Camel Crush is there any expected impact on Camel Crush from Marlboro NXT expansion? And then off of that is there more competition or more competitive pressure/attention being paid to the capsule segment? What are your thoughts on that? Yes.
I think the Marlboro NXT product we already see it in about half the country as we sit here today.
And actually if we -- if you look at past quarterly sort of performance on the capsule side which we report out every quarter it's actually continued to do quite well including in the areas where Marlboro NXT was already launched.
So I think at this stage it's a safe assumption.
We'll need to see what actually happens in the marketplace but we're confident in our ability to keep growing the menthol styles on Camel.
Our next question comes from Jacob Feinstein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Jacob Feinstein on behalf of Judy Hong.
Just a question about the promotional competitive environment.
How would you describe it now compared to where it's been over the last 18 months? And do you see new products coming out whether it is Marlboro NXT or Newport Gold? Does that change your strategy or how you're going to approach that dynamic? Yes.
I think maybe -- let me give you a little bit of a perspective on how I see that competitive dynamics.
I would still describe the category and I believe you're referring specifically to the cigarette category but I'll also address moist snuff within that.
But I see the competitiveness it's still a very competitive marketplace.
I think the big sort of new news in the category or what's maybe a little bit different than this time last year is that the amount of expenditure being plowed back into the marketplace in the form of discounting and on-pack promotions has not increased significantly year-over-year.
And that of course is a different dynamic than where we're at about 12 months ago.
So from that point of view it's more stable because there isn't a significant increases.
But I would still describe it as being highly competitive out there.
And then I think on the moist snuff side it's actually relatively similar.
There is still a lot of resources being applied back to the category and in both cases in cigarettes and in moist snuffs it's really the advent of this premium value category.
But there isn't as many new additional resources being applied back.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's great.
And if I could just ask did you have the benefit of one extra shipping day in the quarter as you had previously called out? And going forward what it going to be kind of the cadence of the shipping days for the rest of the year and then into the first half of '14? Yes.
I think really if we take a look at the sort of inventory side if you remember the holiday period it actually fell right at the end of the first quarter into the second.
So really I think maybe the best way to look at the industry dynamic is really to have a look at it from a totality sort of a year-to-date so if you add the first and second quarter.
And when we do that you end up with a cigarette industry of volume decline that is actually about 5.3% down when we adjust for inventory.
That's year-to-date okay.
And then of course within that I think we did have 1 extra shipping day in the second quarter.
But of course that isn't an extra day of consumption from a consumer point of view.
So that's really just the pipeline of catching up to ongoing consumption.
And our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question on Camel and Pall Mall.
I was hoping you could give us just a little bit more color on some of the key drivers behind the momentum that you're seeing? And how would you characterize the competitive environment particularly with regards to down trading in light of Pall Mall's volume growth and the share gains? And then I'd be curious if you could talk about where some of these share gains are coming from? Okay.
Well let me take each brand in turn.
First of all Camel year-over-year was actually up 0.4.
And on a year-to-date basis it's actually up 0.2.
So I think it was a good quarter for Camel.
And largely this is reflective of the strong equity of the brand.
If you remember some of my earlier comments in the year we are actually investing a little bit more in the equity of Camel and that was part -- sort of embedded in our guidance this year.
We also see superior dynamics on sort of demographics on the brand and so it's doing quite well and it's firing all cylinders.
And I'm happy to see that 0.4 of a market share growth.
From a Pall Mall perspective it's actually up 0.5 a share point in the quarter and also 0.5 a share point on the year-to-date basis.
And so from that point of view it's doing quite well.
I think the brand -- it basically is a great product proposition.
I've talked to you in the past about this longer-lasting cigarette technology at an affordable price.
Now when we look of those growth rates they are still south of some of the growth rates that we're reported back in 2009 and 2010.
I think the brand had kind of flattened or it stalled a little bit from a growth perspective in a very competitive marketplace sort of a 12 to 18 months ago and happy to report some moderate levels of share gains today.
And you also had a question about down trading.
I think we still see a little bit of down trading in the cigarette category but it's not as marked as it was 12 months ago.
This is largely because of the absence of significant incremental resources being plowed back into those propositions in the marketplace.
So I think all the trends in the category are a bit more muted.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on menthol Dan I was hoping if you could give us an idea of what your market share of the menthol category is? And then I'd love to hear your thoughts on maybe what would happen to the industry and how consumers might react if say for instance the FDA does ultimately recommend that the levels of menthol need to be reduced over time? Just one potential outcome.
Yes.
I think from a volume point of view Bonnie it's about 1/3 of our volume is actually in the menthol category.
I think it would be sort of very premature for me to speculate on the eventuality of what might happen given potential sort of regulatory pressure in the future.
I think we're obviously reviewing this FDA announcement yesterday very closely.
We're going to engage very constructively with the agency on this issue as it goes.
But I would just remind everybody on the call that the process of the FDA is actually laid out it's well-known.
And it's going to take some time to be done right.
So we really as a company are planning to constructively engage both on the process and really on the outcome.
Yes and we've all concluded in the past that having movement from our regulators is preferable to not having any.
And really I think this report was sort of the predicted next step.
So I think rather than to speculate as to what might happen I think we're really focusing on engaging constructively.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then just my final question is on your pipeline behind some of your key brands.
I guess I'm trying to get a sense of the expected innovation on to these brands for the remainder of the year and as we look into 2014? Curious to hear if you're being hindered by or limited by the substantial equivalence approval process in anyway? Well Bonnie I think you know in terms of the pipeline and what we have been able to achieve to date it's obviously very difficult for me to telegraph some of the other plans that we have in mind in the marketplace into the future.
But I do think as a company right now we're very much focused on the Vuse digital vapor cigarette the one we recently talked about in New York.
And that really is sort of job one as we sit here today.
And our next question comes Tim Milway from BlackRock.
Are you sponsoring or conducting your own research into the safety vapor of e-cigarettes in particular the secondhand exposure? It seems to be a challenge to the product segment as I continue to read about bans most recently on the trains in New York City? Yes.
We've looked at this product in many different ways and we continue to do research on this category and we're also actively engaging with regulators on these issues.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your share trends.
I know you've got the sequential stabilization in this first half first to second quarter.
Just looking a little longer term obviously your support brands have been a bit of a drag.
Where do you see that going? I mean honestly I figured to be a smaller part of your portfolio it's less of a headwind but you've had Pall Mall pick up a lot of that to try to keep you closer to whole.
Net your down over 250 basis points since early '09 how much more can Pall Mall go? Where is it sourcing share from? And can it more than compensate for the losses in the support brands? How do you think about that dynamic? Yes.
I think a couple of things.
First of all on the losses I think a significant proportion and for -- if you take a look at over a number of quarters that a significant proportion of the losses were actually coming from the value brand Doral.
That brand is now below 1 share of market and this last quarter actually it was down 0.4 so 0.4 of a market share point year-over-year.
So it's actually from a decline trend is suffering more poorly than some of the other support and nonsupport brands.
From a Pall Mall perspective I think we posted some modest growth in terms of -- it's up 0.5 share point as you noted.
It's sourcing -- certainly some of it is coming from those support and nonsupport brands.
But it actually sources consumers quite broadly in the marketplace.
And so really we look at that dynamic on Pall Mall as being independent largely from some of the losses on the support and nonsupport brands.
And we see good long-term prospects for Pall Mall in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> It certainly is up a lot.
I mean it's about a 9 share from a closer to 2 in just a few years ago.
But if you've also seen -- if you've seen more of your support brand share erode what does Pall Mall have to be as -- I mean to get to be an Newport-sized brand? Or how much headroom does it have and how much investment does it take to keep that gaining share and having momentum there? Yes.
I think Pall Mall really there was no significant incremental resources that's actually led to the recent performance.
I think it's obviously how many -- how much resources and how much focus we put on it relative to the categories.
So I'm actually quite pleased.
I think we can continue to grow this brand at moderate levels into the future.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just my last one.
You're now a little less than a year away from shareholder rights plan and the BAT non-compete expiring.
Do you expect any changes coming when you cross any of those deadlines or anything that might be coming out in any of that? I think that would be sort of highly speculative from my point of view.
I think if you take a look at the documentation at some of the public available information on the issue that's sort of clear in its own right.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I dialed in a little bit late so I'm not sure if you addressed some of the questions.
But first Dan just in terms of the industry trends so I think you're saying year-to-date industry is down 5.3% adjusted for inventory.
Obviously you'd called out some of the headwinds in the first quarter with e-cigs and a weak consumer.
But just your view about how sort of the industry plays out for the balance of the year? And some of the headwinds either from a consumer perspective and some of these other products within total tobacco? Do you expect that to accelerate and the cigarette industry being -- maybe the decline accelerating as we go forward kind of your view on the industry outlook? If I look at the outlook and really for the year my estimate would be that it's going to be down somewhere in that 4% to 5% range.
I think some of the key things impacting so far I mean one is the tough compare really to last year.
Where if you remember last year the category the cigarette category was actually down below trend.
And so that relative year-on-year makes it a relatively tough compare.
I would remind everybody that we ended the quarter with relatively normalized levels of inventory.
I do think that the economic factors continue to influence consumption out there as they impact consumers.
And also if you take a look from a consumer point of view year-on-year there are higher cigarette prices this year.
And remember last year was a relatively -- from a pricing point of view there was a hiatus really for the consumer.
I do think that migration to other categories does influence the total cigarette category.
But within that I'd emphasize that it's not just e-cigarettes which we read a lot about but it's also moist snuff and snus.
And then also if we take a look at the sort of trends the trend did improve in the second quarter when we compared that to the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just clarification on your comment about your second quarter shipments versus consumption.
So I know your competitor called out a pretty big gap between their underlying consumption volume versus shipments citing the inventory movement at the trade level.
Did you have the similar negative impact on your shipments with the inventory deloading in the second quarter and do you think that reverses in the back half? Okay.
Here's the way I would look at it and maybe Judy what I'll do is I'll give you a couple of numbers that are kind of year-to-date and sort of aggregate the first and second quarters.
And that's because of that holiday how it fell right at the end of the first quarter.
So if we just take the first half we see the cigarette industry down inventory adjusted 5.3%.
Then if we take a look at how we performed against that first at RJRT they were down slightly over 6% in the first half of the year from a volume point of view.
And at the same time at the Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company they were up about 20% inventory adjusted in the first half.
So when we net out those 2 numbers and we look at it from a corporation point of view both those companies in aggregate we were down about 5.3%.
So very much in line with the industry.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then just lastly on your Vuse launch.
Obviously it's early in terms of your July going into Colorado.
But what kind of feedback are you getting on the July trends? Any color that you can give us in terms of what you're doing there from a marketing perspective? Yes.
Judy I really think it's a little bit premature to talk about it from a consumer point of view.
And of course I'll just reiterate some of the comments I made recently in New York is we're really really focused on the convergence of this product.
It's not just the trial generated which we believe is going to be relatively easy to obtain but it's really about the regular conversion to this product as being still characterized as being low in the category today and we're certainly hoping to improve upon that.
I can tell you that from a trade perspective so really from wholesale and particularly from the retail community the reception has been very very positive.
And so that obviously sort of gives us a lot of enthusiasm going forward.
And I'm showing no one else in the queue at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Morris Moore for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us for our call today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.