Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll review Reynolds American's results for the third quarter and 9 months as well as our revised guidance for the full year.
Our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Good morning everyone.
And I'm sure you saw in our press release this morning RAI made outstanding progress in the third quarter.
The company delivered higher third quarter earnings and margins resulting in an excellent year-to-date performance.
This was driven by strong performance of our operating companies where a transformation strategy is more relevant today than ever.
Once again R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe each improved earnings while increasing the market share of their powerful key brands.
The economic and competitive environment remains challenging but I'm pleased to say that our companies are finding new opportunities for profitable growth and they're well positioned for the rest of the year.
As a result we have tightened our full year earnings guidance and now expect growth in adjusted EPS of 7% to 10%.
I should note that our guidance includes significant investments in the equity building initiative of our company's key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
It also includes investments for the Vuse digital vapor cigarettes which will continue to build in the fourth quarter.
Before I go into more detail on our third quarter performance overall I'd like to bring you up-to-date on Vuse.
And it's great having good news to share right off the bat.
As you know R.J.
Reynolds vapor expanded its Vuse e-cigarette to Colorado.
And while it's still early days the results are significantly exceeding our expectations.
Vuse is getting a great reception from consumers and retailers and the brand has already taken the market-leading position in the state.
Since Vuse went into Colorado in July we have seen a significant expansion of the e-cigarette category.
And we're seeing -- and this is important we're seeing high levels of repeat purchase of Vuse with the replacement cartridges being its largest selling SKU.
This is a clear sign that adult tobacco consumers are adopting Vuse which gives us confidence in the sustainability of the category.
Of course we are excited by the very positive interest but we're not that surprised.
Innovation has always been one of our key competitive advantages and Vuse is proven to be a clear demonstration of that.
Vuse is a highly differentiated product that delivers a superior vaping experience.
It's a satisfying and great tasting product that's combined with consistent and reliable performance.
These high standards of quality are absolutely key to increasing the rate of e-cigarette conversion.
And we believe that by giving adult smokers what they're looking for Vuse will be a leader in this emerging market.
Vuse is the first and only e-cigarette that's designed and assembled in the U.S.
and is the first fully digital vapor product powered by smart technology.
Vuse also draws on the expertise of a company that's been meeting the expectations of adult tobacco consumers for well over 100 years.
The successful results so far in Colorado bode well for Vuse's national rollout plans.
And we'll have a lot more to report on the brands progress at our Investor Day presentation next month.
Now let's turn to the quarter's business performance in more depth.
At R.J.
Reynolds higher cigarette pricing and lower MSA cost contributed to higher adjusted operating income and margin.
I'm pleased to report that Camel and Pall Mall continued to gain momentum in the third quarter despite the competitive environment.
Their combined market share rose 0.7 percentage points to 17.8%.
These brands now account for almost 70% of the company's total share and they'll continue to grow as a percentage of total share in line with the company's portfolio strategy.
I must say Camel is performing extremely well as a premium priced brand.
Camel share increased 8.9% of market 0.4 share points higher than the year-ago quarter.
This growth has been driven by Camel's premium menthol styles which were the first cigarette styles to offer the innovative capsule technology.
The brand's menthol styles gained 0.5 percentage points in third quarter market share growing to 3.5%.
Turning to Camel's innovative smokeless offerings.
Camel SNUS remains the leading brand in the growing SNUS category with share of nearly 80%.
Camel Frost is the best-selling style of SNUS in America.
And just last month R.J.
Reynolds broadened the portfolio by expanding Camel Frost Large into national distribution.
The Large style contains 70% more tobacco in each pouch than the regular Frost style while offering the same cool refreshing taste.
Enhancements like this are in response to changing adult tobacco consumer preferences and form part of our company's effort to offer smokers more smoke-free options.
Pall Mall also performed well in the quarter.
Pall Mall increased market share by 0.3 percentage points in the third quarter reaching 8.9%.
Pall Mall the industry's biggest value brand is also growing in the menthol category.
We're quite pleased by adult smokers' response to the brand's expanded menthol portfolio.
Pall Mall continues to attract interest from value conscious consumers in the weak economy but the brand's strong trial and conversion is directly attributable to its distinctive qualities as a longer-lasting cigarette that offers premium taste at an affordable price.
R.J.
Reynolds' saw cigarette volume declines continued to moderate during the third quarter with shipments down 4.3% from the prior year quarter.
For the industry cigarette volumes were in line with the year-ago quarter.
But after adjusting for wholesale inventory changes as well as 1 extra shipping day R.J.
Reynolds estimates that industry volumes declined about 3.5%.
Industry wholesale inventories were approximately 7.8 billion units at the end of the third quarter up about 100 million from the prior year quarter.
While R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.9 billion were down about 100 million.
The decline in R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share also continued to ease as the gains in the company's growth brands mitigated declines on its other brands.
R.J.
Reynolds' total third quarter market share was 26% down 0.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter and in line with the second quarter of this year.
At American Snuff higher moist-snuff volume and pricing helped drive growth in the company's third quarter operating income while its margin remained strong.
American Snuff moist-snuff volume again outpaced industry growth in the quarter increasing by more than 7% compared with the industry's growth of about 5%.
As a result the company's market share added a substantial 1.2 percentage points to 33.4%.
Grizzly the nation's best-selling moist-snuff brand continues to demonstrate stellar performance.
And the brand carved out further gains in both volume and market share.
Grizzly's third quarter shipment volume increased 8.3% while the brand's market share jumped 1.6 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 30.4%.
Grizzly's momentum was driven by strong interest in the brand's pouch styles as well as its wintergreen offerings.
Like all our company's key brands Grizzly is benefiting from ongoing equity building initiatives and effective consumer and customer engagement.
Now turning to Santa Fe which also posted another great quarter.
The company's volume and pricing growth drove an increase of almost 30% in operating income with margin of more than 50%.
The growth of Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit brand remains very strong as the brand's distinctive additive-free natural tobacco styles including some made with organic tobacco continued to build a loyal consumer franchise.
Natural American Spirit increased volume by almost 22% in the third quarter.
And the brand's market share was up 0.3 percentage points at a record 1.5%.
And we're proud to announce that NAS is now a top 10 brand in the market.
So that wraps up the quarter's key achievements.
I am very pleased by how RAI and its operating companies are progressing and I'm confident that we'll finish up the year in strong form.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Dan and good morning everyone.
By many measures it's clear that Reynolds American and its operating companies just reported their strongest quarter of the year.
These results incorporate the significant investments in positioning our company's key brands for long-term growth through equity building initiatives as well as for the expansion of Vuse.
These investments along with the solid earnings growth the company has delivered reflect the disciplined approach we've taken with the proceeds of the partial NPM settlement earlier this year.
And as we said at the beginning of the year we are committed to leveraging this opportunity for long-term sustainable growth.
Before I cover the financials for the quarter I would like to touch on the September arbitration panel rulings on the remaining 2003 NPM disputed payments.
The arbitration panel ruled that 6 states had not diligently enforced their qualifying statutes in 2003 related to R.J.
Reynolds' NPM adjustment claim for that year.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds believes that it is entitled to approximately $266 million plus interest and earnings under the Master Settlement Agreement.
While the company expects to receive these funds given the uncertainty of the timing and the process no amount has been recognized in the third quarter.
Consequently these amounts will be recorded as appropriate when these uncertainties are resolved.
Now I'll turn to the financial performance.
RAI's adjusted EPS increased 8.9% from the prior year quarter to $0.86 as we continued to benefit from higher pricing lower MSA cost and the impact of our share repurchase program.
Adjusted results exclude $0.02 for Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
On a reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.84 up 13.5% from the prior year quarter.
For the first 9 months RAI's adjusted EPS was $2.42 up 9.5% from the prior year period.
And those adjusted results exclude the items I've just mentioned as well as implementation costs and the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement.
On a reported basis 9-month EPS was $2.60 up 31.3%.
RAI's adjusted operating margin made further gains in both periods with third quarter margin increasing 1.7 percentage points to 37.8% bringing the 9 months margin to 37%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedule at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds kept its focus on balancing profitability and market share in the third quarter increasing adjusted operating income by 7.5% to $652 million.
That brought 9-month adjusted operating income to $1.9 billion up 8.7%.
The company's third quarter adjusted operating margin continued to see strong growth increasing 3.3 percentage points to 37.5%.
While the 9-month margin gained 3.8 percentage points to 36.8%.
At American Snuff third quarter operating income benefited from higher moist-snuff volumes and pricing.
Operating income rose 5.5% from the prior year quarter to $106 million.
And that brought 9-month adjusted operating income to $308 million up by more than 10%.
American Snuff's third quarter operating margin held strong at 57% with 9-month adjusted operating margin at 56.4%.
Now turning to Santa Fe.
The company continued to deliver outstanding results increasing operating income by nearly 30% in the third quarter to $82 million on the strength of both volume and pricing gains.
For the 9 months Santa Fe's adjusted operating income increased by just over 20% to $207 million.
Santa Fe's third quarter operating margin came in at a strong 51%.
Finally I'd like to highlight a number of other financial items that demonstrate our commitment to a sound balance sheet and continued enhancements to shareholder value.
As you know RAI completed a successful $1.1 billion public offering of senior debt securities in September.
And last week the company completed the make-whole call of $975 million of debt that was scheduled to mature in 2015 and 2016.
We repaid $350 million on the term loan in the quarter.
And in early October we repaid the remaining $150 million.
And earlier this month RAI entered into a new revolving credit facility of $1.35 billion.
In addition R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Holdings repaid $60 million of debt that matured in August.
We continued to execute our share repurchase program with the purchase of 3 million shares for $150 million during the quarter bringing our total repurchases under the program to 44.7 million shares for $1.9 billion.
RAI ended the quarter with $2.7 billion in cash balances.
And the company contributed $50 million to its pension plans in July.
These plans remained well funded at about 90% on a PBO basis.
As Dan said earlier RAI's successful year-to-date performance allows us to tighten our full year guidance range.
And we're now expecting adjusted EPS of $3.17 to $3.27 which translates to growth of 7% to 10% over last year's adjusted EPS.
Our guidance excludes the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement and the charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Our guidance also reflects the brand investments that I mentioned earlier.
So to wrap up we delivered strong results in the third quarter and our companies continue to build momentum on their key brands.
RAI is well positioned for the rest of the year and will remain focused on building value for our shareholders.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Sayyid would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question for you in relation to the investments you're making behind the business.
And I wanted to be clear as you've invested back behind products such as Vuse and Zonnic and expanding their availability that certainly is I'm sure aided those businesses and those growth.
I'm curious about brands like Camel and Pall Mall and Santa Fe.
Are we seeing the benefits of that investment already? Should we expect still to improve as we go through the year? Maybe you could talk also about the phasing of the investment.
Are those expected to pick up at all in the fourth quarter versus where they've been the last couple of quarters? Chris yes this is Dan.
I think first of all the way we look at it certainly on the existing businesses I'm really excluding Vuse from this but in terms of the brand -- the brand equity spend that we've done on Camel on Grizzly and at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company on the Natural American Spirit brand those where fairly evenly spread during the year so not really expecting additional tick up in the fourth quarter.
But of course for Vuse that's in a slightly different situation.
We actually went to marketing Colorado in July.
And so on that brand we would actually expect there to be a tick up in expenditure in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question I had was as you look at the cigarette category the underlying performance this quarter backing out the changes in inventory and the shipping day and all that you've done around 3.5%.
So that was a little better than we saw in the first half of the year.
You've been talking about a negative 4% to negative 5% are you looking at more negative 4% now? Any general commentary on kind of the state of the category? It looks a little less competitive.
I'm just curious if you have any more thoughts on the category overall.
Yes let me start with the first part of the question.
I think you hit the number right on the head.
We've been seeing 4% to 5%.
I think it's fair to say it's going to come into closer to 4% now.
So we're at the low end of that range.
I'm very happy to kind of see the sequential improvement in terms of category performance after a very slow start to the category this year.
And I think probably the best numbers to focus on right now given the changes in shipping days by quarter and support is to look at the year-to-date number.
And when we do that what you actually see is the year-to-date including the third quarter coming in at 4.1%.
Then after we adjust for ship days and inventory coming in at negative 4.7%.
But again I would highlight just a sequential improvement in terms of the numbers as we go through the year.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I know you'll get into more detail at the Analyst Day but I did want to touch back on Vuse again a little bit.
Is it the shipment share that you have leadership on? And can you give a little color on how much pipeline fill might have hit that? Or what the sell-through looks like compared to other competitors like Blu or NJOY? Yes Michael.
I think it's really early days for us.
But I think -- and certainly what I hope you picked up from our comments today and from the press release is we're truly very very excited in terms of what's going on in Colorado.
We of course had a little bit of a pipeline as we went out but I also think that that pipeline sold through very quickly.
We tracked really 3 sets of numbers which are our shipments into wholesale our shipments from wholesale to retail and retail offtake.
And by any measure I think we're doing extremely well in Colorado.
In fact we've been running significant out of stocks at retail certainly for the early part of the period.
So our conclusion is that really the sales are consumer generated and have been purchased by consumers.
And again to all the listeners on the call I'd really like to invite everybody to attend our Investor Day coming up next month.
We're going to really dissect some of the results in significant more detail than I will today.
And I think -- so really it's exciting time and more to come in terms of some of the announcements to you.
Research Division</strong> And just -- you mentioned out of stocks as far as how you think about the national rollout how much of that is potentially capacity constrained? Is that going drive some of the pacing like might you have a phased rollout? Or would you be able to go to the other 49 states at once? Or how are you thinking about that? Well I think it's a little bit early to make some of those announcements in terms of how we might roll out.
But I do think it's a fair comment today to say that we are capacity constrained.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last thing in terms of the category dynamics there has your launch into the state accelerated e-cigarette segment growth? And have you seen any noticeable impact on your base cigarette business as well? I think really 3 comments I would make.
One we believe we have achieved market leadership in the state so that would be the first one.
I think we are also seeing a significant expansion in the e-cigarette category in the state which is subsequent to our launch.
And then third is if I take you back to some of the comments that I made in New York during the actual celebration and as we're introducing you to the brand for the first time we talked a lot about the necessity there to generate repeat purchase and really ongoing adoption.
And what's interesting in terms of results that we're seeing in Colorado is that the sales of the cartridges only -- so these are the units that don't work unless you've actually also bought a unit with a battery -- a rechargeable battery with it but the cartridge only sales those SKUs had the largest selling SKU in Colorado today for us.
So my conclusion to that is that we are seeing significant repeat purchase and adoption on the brand.
And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First just going back to the cigarette category.
The moderation in terms of the industry decline that you saw more recently can you just give us perspective on what you think is driving that moderation? I know you gave us some numbers but sort of your thoughts on what's driving that moderation.
Yes my perspective on this Judy is that we're seeing sequential improvement.
Slowly the numbers are coming back into line with historical numbers.
So in a sense we need to look at what's going on in the market this year and compare it to last year as well.
And as you know last year was maybe an above trend so said a different way the category declined a little bit less than we might have expected last year.
And so we suffered a little bit from the comparison in aggregate this year.
The third quarter was a little bit of an easier comp compared to last year but I think the fundamental thing that we saw was some of the economic impact some of the taxation impact out of the gate this year.
And I believe one of the largest impacts that we had that impacted the category was actually the payroll tax holiday as well as some gas prices and things like that at the early part of the year.
And as those have moderated or been sort of assumed that worked out in people's sort of family budget we've seen an improvement in trend in the total category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just your assessment about the competitive dynamics in the cigarette industry.
If I look at your pricing it was up strongly year-over-year but sequentially it hasn't really gone up even with the list price increases.
So just wondering how you are assessing the competitive dynamics and sort of your thoughts on kind of the pricing in the industry.
Yes.
Here's the way I would describe it in a way I'm thinking about it currently Judy.
First of all if we start with the net price realization and we calculate that x the contract manufacturing that we do.
But in the quarter we saw 3.4% -- this is at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco 3.4% net price realization.
And on a year-to-date basis that's 3.6%.
So we believe that's a reasonable performance a quite strong performance for a net price realization.
I think the marketplace was kind of settled down into a new equilibrium it's the way I would describe it from a competitive point of view.
And now with -- one of the new launches from one of our competitors that is price relatively aggressively out there but it appears to sort of have a bit of a differential geographic footprint.
And I know our largest competitor has reacted to that in a moderate degree in my opinion as have we.
So I think everything sort of remains rational in the category as we sit here today.
And I would say that really the story of the equilibrium that we find ourselves in currently continues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the difference in terms of the inventory behavior for the industries to your competitors and then just for your product because I guess the shipment performance or the shipment share looked worse than your retail share and it seems like that difference in terms of the inventory movements.
So can you just talk about what's driving that difference? Is it more timing related? And does that sort of reverse itself as your inventory comes up in the fourth quarter? Yes it's a great question Judy.
And if I take you back and sort of -- if we put ourselves first of all in the shoes of a wholesaler in this country the main reason why they might fluctuate in this volume over time is actually through price speculation.
So if they're expecting a price increase in the future they might actually load up on product then after a price increase happens they would actually unload and go back to more normal inventory levels.
We as a company -- I think uniquely we as a company try to discourage that behavior and we try to work with all our wholesalers so that they maintain as constant as possible of inventory.
And we have a belief that these inventory fluctuations actually create and wreak havoc on the supply chain because you're having to increase outputs through the supply chain in our production facilities.
And then when the unload starts happening you're having to idle machines and idle people as the thing comes back into balance.
So we have active programs out there to discourage wholesalers from loading up too much prior to price increases.
And that also means that the payback once the price increase happens is less for us.
And that I would say is the main dynamic that you can read into some of the numbers that you see and that we report every quarter in terms of wholesale inventories.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just lastly on Vuse spending so if we look at your corporate expenses I think the step-up was maybe about at $10 million kind of year-over-year.
Would you sort of attribute that increase to mostly the Vuse investment? And does that step up even further in the fourth quarter? Judy this is Tom.
It's actually in the other category the All Other is where the Vuse spending is.
Research Division</strong> So 50 million negative versus the 1 million negative last year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And most of that step up would be Vuse? Most of that is the step-up in Vuse.
And our next question comes from Ryan Oksenhendler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I actually had a follow-up to Judy.
So I just want to make clear so was there any inventory adjustment on the minus 4.3% volume shipment in the quarter for you guys? Well if you remember in my prepared remarks we finished the quarter at 1.9 billion sticks in our inventories.
At wholesale we're down 100 million units.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And then can you talk about I guess Camel came in a little bit better than we expect in terms of volumes and Pall Mall was a little worse I guess how much was that -- the comps I know you're lapping a launch in Pall Mall in the year ago and how much of it is just the categories premium versus value and maybe some share shifts going on there? I think it's some of both.
I think we're very proud in terms of what we've achieved as a company on Camel.
Of course of all the capsule style on Camel continues to do extremely well in the marketplace.
But even Pall Mall it grew 3/10 in the quarter and actually 4/10 year-to-date and that's year-over-year.
So I think really both brands are doing extremely well.
I would still characterize the marketplace as being slight competitive.
There's a fair amount of pricing activity but I also think it's a fair conclusion to say that in this environment both of the growth brands Camel and Pall Mall at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco doing quite well in this environment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I guess just your commentary on the fourth quarter in terms of volumes and the outlook is there any concern around the consumer given like the government shutdown and there's some articles about food stamps getting cut.
Could that have an impact on the fourth quarter? I'd tell you at this stage I don't think we're predicting any significant impact to the category.
I think the government shutdown was relatively short-lived and obviously a lot of the employees are being made whole.
So really not expecting a significant impact on the category.
And our next question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan first RJRT's operating income if you normalize MSA expenses were down a little bit in the quarter.
They're down a little bit through the 9 months.
I know there's some investment spending that wouldn't otherwise be going on there but what's your confidence that that the division when you look out over time can grow its operating income? Well actually David I'm extremely confident on that side.
If you take a look actually at the key growth brands that we have at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco see if you take a look at Camel and Paul Mall they now account for about 70% of the total portfolio at R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco and both those brands performing extremely well.
Now we are investing back some of those resources as you've said and we believe that's a very prudent investment and clearly we track the return on investment that we receive from those investments.
So actually I'm quite confident going forward that these are deliberate and well-calculated investments that we will see a return on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Secondly on Vuse what are you finding in Colorado the impact is if any from the fact that you're not the first to market that there are established products with distribution and some degree of consumer familiarity.
In other words are you finding that going more expensive than what otherwise be the case or is it any slower than otherwise would have been the case? Or is there essentially no impact from -- against the performance metrics or the cost because you're not the first to market? I think it's fair to say David that our marketing efforts and by that I really mean sort of introducing the brand through some of the media efforts and support.
We did not start that out of the gate so that didn't start right off in July and we actually achieved and significantly exceeded our expectations before the marketing effort even started.
And that leads me to the conclusion that actually having competitors out there educating on the category some consumer familiarity because at least they've tried some of these competitive products at one stage or another over time has actually helped us.
Because then we come in over the top with a significantly superior product both from a quality point of view from a consumer experience point of view.
And a product that offers a consumer benefit that's closer to the existing smoking or expectation the existing smokers have.
I think that actually makes our jobs easier in aggregate.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up on that Dan how are you going to calibrate the speed with which you're going to expand leaving aside capacity constraints for a moment? Because it looks to me like you're in one state and maybe you're incurring losses of $15 million a quarter.
Obviously if you extrapolate that spending rate in nationally or regionally it looks like you're going to be incurring very large losses.
Well I don't think you can extrapolate those numbers David because of course as you well know doing a test market means that you don't have any of the scale or the economies of scale behind any of our efforts.
So I don't think you can do a straight extrapolation financially.
Yes I think we are going as fast as we can as we speak and certainly I'll have much more to say on this subject in November when we can actually begin to talk about some of the detailed performance in Colorado and what some of the next steps are for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan if I could a question about litigation.
After the 11th Circuit decision I think it was in Walker and then the U.S.
Supreme Court denying review in your other Engle progeny appeal.
Do you think as a practical matter you're looking at 10 years plus of just trench warfare of individual cases being litigated in the state of Florida? And I assume that that's what you're prepared for? We certainly are prepared for that.
I think in terms of the Douglas case I think it's also fair to say that we were disappointed in the ruling.
But I'd just remind you and the other listeners that it was not a ruling on the actual merits of the case and we're going to continue the process and we're going to continue to fight for our constitutional rights and we will continue to defend every individual case as we move forward.
And our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I was hoping you could talk about a broader shift of the so-called premium brands doing better in the quarter in light of Camel's strength relative to Pall Mall.
Is this a function of greater promotions behind Camel leading to possible narrowing price gap between the 2 or are there other dynamics at play? If you could just touch on that I'd appreciate it.
Yes I think it's a little bit premature Bonnie to come to the conclusion to say that the category is premium-izing again or that in general premium brands are growing.
I know Camel stands out a little bit as having significant growth and it is a premium brand.
But I believe it's largely due to some of the differentiated offers that we have on Camel particularly on thinking of the capsule -- the 4 capsule SKUs that we have out there and they're doing particularly well in the marketplace.
I think we still see a moderated trend but the trend still exists to people moving from premium to value.
It's just that Camel is countertrend on that one.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I had a question on your Santa Fe momentum which certainly seems to have picked up and I'm curious where some of the gains that you're seeing are coming from and really what's driving this volume? And then how much run rate do you think is left for this brand? Okay.
Well I think we as a company are extremely proud of what the folks at Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company have been able to achieve.
If we start looking at some of the share numbers that they've actually posted it's 1.5 share points now of market.
I think if we take a look first of all at the product portfolio on Natural American Spirit I would say that everything's growing but maybe outsized growth they're seeing from the actual organic styles on the brand.
The other significant aspect that is leading to this acceleration in growth actually are some of those investments that we have made those equity building investments.
I think they're doing more work in terms of actually contacting consumers directly be that face-to-face or through direct mail and so forth in terms of helping get the proposition out there and building proposition awareness amongst the adult tobacco consumers and I think -- so it's really partly the investment and certain styles that are contributing to the outsized growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of Vuse congrats on your success in Colorado.
I know you've gotten a lot of questions already and you're going to talk about this more in November for us.
But I was curious if you could give us an idea of what you think e-cig displacement for the entire group has been so far this year as you possibly monitoring this category? Bonnie I'm not sure I understand what e-cigarette displacement is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well just in terms of how much you think this new category is displacing from traditional volume so far this year -- year-to-date because I know you're just in one state but as you kind of track the entire category? Yes I do think it's -- there obviously is an impact that's created by that.
I think it's a little bit early for me to answer that question Bonnie but I do think we'll have some more detailed numbers and statistics and can give you some hypotheses on that side at our Investor Day next month.
And our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify some of the earlier comments you made.
So do I understand it right that you don't expect any negative impact on the industry to take pricing in the fourth quarter despite the state of the consumer despite the as you put it very competitive pricing on one of your competitor's new products? Look Thilo I think I would be reading maybe a bit too much into my comments.
I believe the pricing environment is quite rational out there.
Of course I'm -- can't speak for our competitors in terms of what they may or may not do from a pricing point of view.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Dan you've explained the strong performance of Camel partially with the capsule product that you have.
What other plans to expand that capsule technology into other brands that you now have? Well I can't really speculate at this stage Thilo in terms of our forward-looking plans.
All I can say is that the capsule styles on Camel and now the capsule category are doing quite well and we're very happy with Camel's performance particularly on those styles.
Research Division</strong> I understand your reservations there but maybe let me ask it differently.
Is there any reason why the capsule technology wouldn't work in a brand like Pall Mall for example? It could work on Pall Mall going forward but again I really don't want to speculate in terms of what our future marketing intent may or may not be.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then last question I had margins for the American Snuff Company were down and I apologize if I missed that in your prepared remarks but can you provide a little bit more background on that? At the American Snuff Company? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes well our adjusted operating margin at ASC was 57% for the third quarter.
Sequentially that's up 0.5% and year-over-year that's down 0.4%.
On a year-to-date basis we're actually up a full percentage point at 56.4%.
So I guess what you're reacting to is the discrete quarter year-over-year but we are at such a robust margin at that company now and of course we have some of the brand expenditure actually coming through on Grizzly as well where we choose to spend some back.
So I'm actually very proud of what we've been able to achieve and I will just remind everybody that we traditionally and I think the market's interpreted Grizzly as being a value offering in that category and that's certainly where it started but I don't think we can call 57% margins really value-level margins.
They really are premium level margins and quite proud of what that company has been able to achieve.
Research Division</strong> And I don't disagree with you on the margin level being extraordinary but does that mean that the outlook for further margin expansion is maybe a lot more muted than it has been the last 3 years? I don't have that interpretation and I don't have that belief.
It's largely because of some of the brand support expenditure coming back into the brand and on a year-to-date basis still seeing a strong margin growth.
And our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Citi.
Research Division</strong> I hate to belabor the topic but just a quick point of clarification.
On Vuse when you commented on the spend in the quarter and whether or not we should extrapolate that can you comment at all on your long-term expectation for profitability? I believe in the past you have said that you see Vuse being able to attain a cigarette-type margin once kind of the mix flushes out and you get the right type of trial and repeat.
Is that still the case? It is.
One I think we're certainly confident that we can achieve that in the medium term.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
In terms of the impact of the government shut down on potential forthcoming regulation can you give us any color on when you expect timing of deeming regulation? Yes if we take a look at the -- it's basically the FDA had indicated in October time frame and it has been suggested that the proposed regulation has reached the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the OMB and of course RAI's services company is going to actively participate in that regulatory process.
But we're not sure and don't have any indication as to whether the government shutdown might actually delay some of that timing or not.
So I guess really time will tell.
And the other one maybe on deeming regulations that I could share with everybody is that we have engaged with the FDA on Vuse through a listening session and also happy to report that that was heavily attended by members of the FDA.
And our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
So 2 questions from my end.
Dan if you could just provide some perspective on the timeline as it relates to menthol because I know a lot of folks were expecting some news in the interim but it seems like it was going to be a very long drawn-out process.
So maybe you can just give some perspective on how you guys think about the timeline in totality? And then the second questions is really around e-cigarettes and Vuse.
Sorry I'm at the airport.
It's a little loud.
Maybe can you just talk about trial and remind us Dan is that there's a lot of couponing going in Colorado.
So just want to get a sense of kind of what the unaided consumer response has been to the test market.
Okay.
Let me start a little bit on the menthol side.
So first of all there's the ANPR which is the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and the preliminary scientific report and those were issued on July 23 and that means that comments on those documents are actually due November 23.
And just to remind everybody the preliminary scientific report found increased initiation and increased dependence and decreased cessation.
And the FDA we believe they relied on studies that were basically just snapshots in time.
So a comprehensive assessment of national government surveys across time we believe that they do not support the findings and should be heavily considered before issuing science-based regulation.
So we're going to engage with the FDA.
We are going to provide guidelines or provide comments by the November 23 deadline.
The FDA will then react to a lot of those comments and then they'll issue their actual sort of decision or intent which states there will be another process of actually a public comment process.
So I think you're right in your assertion that we shouldn't expect a definitive decision out of the gate.
Yes? In terms of Vuse Nick I'm going to just comment a little bit on the third quarter as we sit here today.
There was not any significant promotional support or coupons from us on Vuse during the third quarter.
What we did do in the marketplace is where consumers were engaged by personnel from the company so either employees or third party agents of the company.
At that stage they were educated on the category what makes our product different.
In that stage they would be offered a coupon to that individual to allow them to make a discounted purchase on one of these solo styles and remind everybody the solo style is actually a rechargeable battery unit with one cartridge.
That is really the principal marketing activity that we had during the third quarter.
Subsequent to that we have done some direct mail efforts in terms of sending some coupons and introducing the brand to other consumers that we hadn't already contacted.
So really I think the comments that you're talking about about coupons hitting the market is subsequent to the third quarter.
And our next question comes from Greg Hessler from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So can you guys provide -- I know there were a lot of moving pieces after the close of the quarter.
Would you guys be willing to -- or able to provide just like a total debt number on an adjusted basis pro forma for the debt pay-down of the term loan as well as the tender? Sure.
I think our long-term debt right now stands at about $5 billion and the term loan is completely paid off and we paid off the 2015 and '16 last Thursday and all that stuff was sitting in short-term liabilities.
So it's just the long-term piece that's left.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So when you announced the tender you moved those bonds to short-term liabilities? We did.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question was just more of a sort of bigger picture question.
Your -- I had your leverage at about 1.6x.
I know you have the target of about 1.5 to 2.5.
So sort of a big picture.
You don't have a lot of debt maturities coming up.
How do you think about capital allocation going forward? Are there interesting M&amp;A situations that are out there for you? How should we be thinking about capital allocation? Well the way we think about it is exactly as you've said.
I mean we try to be between 1.5x and 2.5x to basically maintain our investment grade rating.
All of our debt is currently fixed and it's at about 4.5% and it's down about 1/10 from where we were before we did the refinancing and on average we have about a 15-year maturity.
So we feel very comfortable with where we are and yes it does provide us some opportunities to do things that -- should the need arise.
So we're very comfortable with the capital structure we did.
There were a lot of moving parts but it does keep our powder dry.
And our final question for today comes from Filippe Goossens from Mitsubishi Securities.
I actually have a couple of them if I may.
The first one relates to the e-cigarette segment.
If we share your view and we do with regard to the potential for the category given there's no regulation at this moment how do you protect yourself? Or how do you protect the category from some of moms and pops importing inferior product from outside of the country and there's a quality issue that all of a sudden gives kind of a negative aspect to what looks like a very promising category at this moment? Yes I think it's a great question and I think if we take a look from an FDA point of view we are expecting over time the FDA to actually issue its deeming regulation and that over time that will actually lead to sort of good manufacturing practices and product standards and what a good stewardship practice is.
So there's that side of things but I also think inherent in this category and what we're already seeing in Colorado is consumers actually demanding quality themselves.
And that product failure some of the product issues that they discover on certain brands is really not an option for them and so them voting with their feet towards the higher-quality newer generation of products of which we're proud to have one.
So I really think it's a combination of different factors and I would say that the other sort of thing that we've seen is retailers actually clearly getting behind some of the more reputable products in the marketplace not accepting and choosing not to distribute products from certain manufacturers that they might deem to be less reputable and people that don't stand behind their product.
So I think really if we think of it from a consumer point of view from a retailer point of view and from a manufacturing point of view I think the category is headed in the right direction.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe a follow-up on the other question with regard to capital allocation.
Your competitor in the e-cigarette space made a small acquisition in the U.K.
last month if I recall correctly.
Dan is that something that might create down the road for you guys also an opportunity to kind of get back into the international business since you don't have any presence there right now? Yes I think it's a little bit too early and too soon to speculate on that side.
So I'm going to decline to speculate really at this stage.
I think we're clearly focused on the U.S.
market as we sit here today.
We're only in 1 state out of 50 as we speak.
So we still have plenty of growth opportunity in front of us today.
Okay.
Then my final question Dan if I may has more to do with the European tobacco directive that was passed by the parliament last month.
They banned menthol I think if I recall correctly after an 8-year period.
My question is kind of twofold related to that.
Number one to what extent do you think the FDA will look at the European directive and maybe copy certain parts of it? And secondly why do you think there was that kind of 8-year period during which menthol could still be sold? I understand that menthol obviously is quite different in Europe than here but sort of was kind of intrigued by that 8-year period for this phase out.
A couple of comments.
I think first of all I think it would be fairly obvious that people working at the FDA are aware of what's going on in Europe.
But I think you also correctly identify that the issue is very different in Europe than it might be here in the U.S..
I believe the menthol category in Western Europe or in the EU is 3% or right around that number and of course for us it's about 10x that size proportionate to the market.
And so I think the sort of factors weighing in on a regulatory decision are quite different in Europe than they are here but of course the regulators here will be aware.
Now as to what might be sort of implied in terms of the regulatory approach in Europe at this stage I really don't want to speculate as to why the regulators might choose to go one way or the other.
That is not the principal market that we as a company are focused on.
I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I'd like to hand the conference back over for any closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
If you have any additional questions please feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.