Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call maybe recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we’ll review Reynolds American’s results for the first quarter as well as our outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI’s President and CEO Dan Delen; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we’re about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As you’re aware I’ve announced my intent to retire effective May 1.
I have truly enjoyed the opportunity to get to know many of our investors as well as the analysts who cover RAI.
I’d like to extend my personal thanks to each of you for your interest in our business and your confidence in our ability to continue to return excellent value to our shareholders.
That commitment will not change with my retirement.
Most of you know Susan and know that during her previous service as CEO RAI significantly outpaced the S&amp;P 500 in total shareholder return.
She is as committed as I am to this company and its future success.
Susan served as the architect of RAI’s total tobacco strategy a decade ago.
And I feel very confident in turning the reins over to her as we continue on our leadership journey to transform the tobacco industry.
Now let’s take a look at the latest progress we’ve made on that journey.
I am pleased to report that RAI and its operating companies have made an excellent start to the year keeping us on track to meet earnings projections for 2014.
As our report today shows RAI’s overall results reflect meaningful progress on two main fronts in the first quarter; continued solid performance of our operating companies and their key brands; as well as very positive development on the VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette.
As we anticipated RAI’s first quarter earnings end margins were impacted by RJR Vapor’s investment in preparation for the expansion of VUSE.
During the quarter RAI’s reportable business segments found new opportunities for growth in a competitive environment.
In fact the continued strong momentum of the key brands was the real highlight of the quarter.
As I noted previously the market shares on our company key brands have been revised in line with the change in our projection universe used by their vendor.
Although this has resulted in higher absolute market share levels on some key brands the share trend remains unchanged.
Before I discuss our company’s achievements in more detail I’d like to update you on VUSE which is a tangible example of our company’s leadership and innovation their ability to redefine tobacco enjoyment in the evolving marketplace.
I couldn’t be more pleased with VUSE’s performance in its first two expansion markets; Colorado and Utah.
Interestingly when VUSE moved into Utah in February the market there reacted in much the same way as it did in Colorado last year.
First; VUSE quickly commanded a leading share of market in both states.
Second; the size of the entire e-cigarette category grew in Utah when VUSE was introduced just as it did when VUSE was launched in Colorado.
This supports our belief that there is pent-up demand among smokers for superior quality product.
And third; sales of replacement cartridges are very strong in Utah indicating significant repeat purchases by consumers.
That remains true in Colorado as well.
Clearly the performance of VUSE thus far is exceeding even our own high expectations.
VUSE is on track for significant geographic expansion this summer with plans to enter in next two expansion markets; Wisconsin and Indiana in early June.
That will be followed by the first wave of the brand’s national rollout to approximately 15 000 regional stores across the country in late June.
As I’ve said before the overall rate of expansion will depend on VUSE’s sales performance and the growth of the e-cigarette category.
As you would expect spending on VUSE will continue to build in the second quarter in preparation for the geographic rollout and for the increased production capacity required.
This increased investment is reflected in our earnings guidance for the full year which we have reaffirmed today in the range of 3.5% to just over 8% in adjusted EPS growth.
I would also note that our guidance includes continued investment in the equity building initiatives of our company’s key cigarette and moist-snuff brands.
Now let’s turn to the quarter’s performance at R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe.
At R.J.
Reynolds adjusted operating income and margin were down slightly from the prior year quarter as lower cigarette volumes and expenses for the National Trade Marketing Meeting that occurs every three years outweighed higher pricing.
The company’s cigarette volume declined moderated slightly in the quarter.
A strong performance of our both growth brands; Camel and Pall Mall help to offset the declines on the company’s other brands.
Even so the lack of a strong economic recovery continues to be a factor behind the volume declines.
There is no doubt that some smokers are migrating to smoke-free product including e-cigarettes.
For the industry cigarette shipments were down 2.7% in the first quarter while R.J.
Reynolds reported a volume decline of 3.8%.
And I would note that our operating companies had one additional shipping day in the quarter.
After adjusting for wholesale inventory changes the company estimates that its volume was down just over 5% in the quarter.
This compares with an adjusted industry decline of about 4.4%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.7 billion units at the end of the first quarter down about 300 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.7 billion were down about 200 million.
Turning to cigarette market share.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share was up one-tenths of a percentage points in the first quarter at 26.7%.
R.J.
Reynolds’ two growth brands Camel and Pall Mall turned in another excellent performance.
And this performance is in line with the company’s portfolio strategy of growth brand gains offsetting declines on the company’s other brands.
The combined market share of Camel and Pall Mall rose seven-tenths of a percentage point to 19.4% accounting for more than 70% of R.J.
Reynolds total market share.
Camel’s first quarter share increased by four-tenths of a percentage point to 10% driven by growth in the brand’s premium menthol styles.
In fact Camel was in the growth leader in premium menthol volume for the past three years.
During the quarter Camel’s menthol style added three-tenths of a percentage point and now comprised a market share of 4.2%.
Performance of Camel SNUS was also strong during the first quarter and as innovative smoke-free offering is maintaining its share of the growing SNUS category at above 80%.
Pall Mall continues to gain momentum as the category’s leading value brand.
Pall Mall which offers a longer lasting cigarette at an affordable price increased market share by three-tenths of a percentage points in the first quarter to 9.5%.
Pall Mall is a great brand success story and plays an important role in R.J.
Reynolds portfolio strategy.
Now turning to American Snuff which continues to go from strength to strength despite significantly higher competitive activity in the moist-snuff category.
American Snuff again delivered strong financial results in the quarter with operating income growing more than 9% while operating margin remains strong.
The company’s moist-snuff volume rose more than 10% during the quarter and together with higher pricing benefiting the company’s operating income.
Its moist-snuff market share gained eight-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 34.6%.
Equity building enhancements on the Grizzly brand continue to drive momentum and Grizzly generated strong growth in both volume and share during the quarter.
Grizzly increased market share to another record of 31.5% an increase of more than 4 percentage point from the prior year quarter.
And that was on volume growth of more than 12%.
I’m pleased to report that Grizzly’s Wide Cut Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally during the quarter is proving to be a very successful addition to the Grizzly portfolio.
The brand is also getting excellent results in this pouch style.
Pouches are the fastest growing style in the moist-snuff category.
And Grizzly captured almost 70% of that growth in the first quarter.
Now turning to Santa Fe which also got off to a strong start this year.
Santa Fe’s operating income was up almost 25% from the prior year quarter.
A strong growth in operating margin as well.
The company’s Natural American Spirit brand gained two-tenths of a share point in the first quarter bringing its market share to 1.5%.
And the brand’s volume was up by 10.7%.
Natural American Spirit now one of the nation’s top 10 cigarette brands is also seeing increased interest in its organic tobacco styles.
So based on the quarter’s performance I am confident that RAI and its operating companies are on course for sustainable growth this year.
And that substantial progress will continue to be made on the VUSE expansion.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tom.
Tom? Thank you and good morning everyone.
As Dan just mentioned the investment in the VUSE expansion was a factor in RAI’s first quarter results.
The company’s adjusted EPS of $0.72 was in line with the prior year quarter with lower cigarette volumes certain sales and marketing expenses and the VUSE spending offsetting the benefits of higher pricing in our share repurchase program.
Adjusted results exclude a $0.04 gain for a tax resolution associated with discontinued operations $0.08 for charges related to the Engle progeny lawsuits and tobacco-related and other litigation and $0.01 were implementation costs.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.67 down 27.2% from the prior year period.
I would remind you that in the first quarter of last year RAI recorded a gain of $0.21 for the one-time benefit from the NPM partial settlement.
RAI’s first quarter adjusted operating margin was also impacted by the VUSE spending and the other items I mentioned and was down 2.2 percentage points at 34.4%.
Before I cover our financial performance in detail I would remind everyone of the 6.3% dividend increase that we announced in February which brought our dividend to an annualized $2.68.
This again reflects our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
Now I’ll turn to our operating companies’ performance where I’ll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds’ first quarter adjusted operating income was negatively impacted by the sales and marketing expenses noted earlier and the decline in cigarette volumes.
As a result adjusted operating income declined by 1.4% from the prior year quarter to $555 million.
R.J.
Reynolds’ adjusted operating margin of 35.5% was also down slightly on the items I’ve just referenced.
American Snuff came in strong benefiting from higher moist-snuff volume and pricing in the first quarter and this increased operating income by 9.2% from the prior year quarter to $102 million.
The company’s operating margin of just over 55% saw a modest decline as the company continued to invest in the equity building initiatives on the Grizzly brand.
American Snuff also had an increase in promotional spending in the quarter in response to higher competitive promotions.
Turning to Santa Fe’s performance.
The company increased operating income by nearly 25% to $65 million which was driven by higher volume and pricing.
And Santa Fe’s first quarter operating margin increased 3.1 percentage points to 48.3%.
Now I’d like to cover some additional financial items at RAI.
We ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.8 billion.
Since then R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company has made its MSA payment of about $1.5 billion which includes $433 million that was paid into the NPM disputed funds account.
RAI borrowed $750 million on its revolving credit facility last week to cover short-term needs.
As you may recall we increased the size of the credit facility last year to improve the overall efficiency of our capital structure.
Our share repurchase programs continued in the first quarter with the purchase of 2.9 million shares for $145 million.
This brought total repurchases to-date to 50.6 million shares for $2.2 billion.
In addition RAI’s pension plans continue to be well funded.
With respect to the arbitration panel’s ruling this past September on the remaining 2003 NPM adjustment disputed payments I would remind you that R.J.
Reynolds believes it is entitled to approximately $266 million plus interest and earnings.
All six states that were found not to have diligently enforced their obligations under the MSA have initiated legal challenges to the arbitration ruling.
While the company believes that will prevail in these proceeding and will ultimately receive these funds no amount had been recognized in the first quarter given this uncertainty.
Consequently these amounts will be recorded as appropriate when this uncertainty is ultimately resolved.
Finally RAI and its operating companies are making good headway in the evolving environment in which we compete while we continue to look for ways to enhance shareholder value.
I am pleased to reaffirm our full year adjusted EPS guidance in the range of $3.30 to $3.45.
This guidance takes into account significant investment in VUSE as well as additional investments in the equity building efforts on the key brands which positions us well for sustainable growth.
Thank you.
Now we’ll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Simon would you remind our callers how to get into the queue?  Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from David Adelman from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Dan let me ask you first the question I am getting most from investors which is can you just explain sort of the backdrop your personal decision to resign and to leave the company seemingly so quickly? Well David I think it might seem quick to some but for me it actually has been 25 years in the category.
And I have now been here at Reynolds for going on for 7.5 years.
And obviously I’ve been fortunate in life in what I’ve achieved.
And so as I was kind of contemplating the future I came to the conclusion that this was the right decision for myself and my family.
Okay.
And then a couple of business questions if I could.
One is in terms of the spending level on VUSE.
I mean in the last six months alone the P&amp;L expense has been about $60 million.
So what opportunity is that predicated on? In other words the intent and the expectation is – with the level of spending you’ve made the level of spending you’re going to have through the remainder of the year you’d be disappointed if you don’t generate a business that can have what level of ultimate profitability? Well I think David we look at the opportunity out there.
And really this category is only really started its upward trajectory as we sit here today.
I think there are still technology shortcomings generally in the category which we believe our product actually has a significant step forward and is really is a step-change in terms of technology that will help expand the category going forward.
So I think it’s a little bit premature to make long-term predictions about where that category ends up but we are confident in our technology and that is really is that next generation of technology to address consumers needs in this emerging category.
And also remind you that I have indicated and we’re confident that we can get cigarette like margins in this category over the long run.
So really when we look at our investment profile it’s that kind of backdrop in mind.
Are you seeing the e-cigarette category in Utah and Colorado have about a 3% cigarette unit volume share equivalency? That is correct.
Okay.
And then lastly what kind of – how are you seeing in that segment the competition evolve as you enter the markets and get the product in retail and build the sales space? I’m not sure I got the question David.
How are you seeing the competition you’re facing evolve? In other words prior to your presence in the market post your presence in the market are the competitive offerings fairly similar or are you seeing a competitive response when you enter in e-cigarettes in a particular state? Yes I think we’ve seen some pricing activity but largely it’s the same as what we’ve seen in terms of that programs nationally.
But maybe the other side of that coin and maybe to help brand out the thinking is I have no doubt and you start looking at lot of the public pronouncements of our competitors everybody is now working on getting their next generation products out there.
So really I think this identification of this fundamental consumer may not being met by current technology is not just an observation by ourselves.
I believe it’s – our competitors have that one as well.
And there really is a big race out there at the moment to bring the most appropriate technology and the best technology possible to this emerging category.
Okay great.
Best of luck Dan.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
First Dan I do want to say it’s been great working with you and I do wish you all the best in your retirement.
And I guess my first question is on something you just mentioned which certainly we had been noticing that the product evolution needs to continue.
So I am curious so where you’re at with further improvements for VUSE? I know it’s just getting started to be placed into the marketplace but where are you at in your R&amp;D efforts behind improved technology? Yes I think Bonnie at this stage it’s hard for me to go into details but let me assure you that we have some very smart and dedicated people and the financial resources.
And obviously working on getting the current product out but at the same time we have teams in place working diligently to continue to enhance the products going forward.
And we have an exciting pipeline of different innovation in this e-cigarette space that have yet to be rolled out.
And we’ll look to continue to improve the product going forward.
Okay.
And then you mentioned this a little bit already but given the heavy investment behind the development and then the rollout of VUSE it sounds like the margins you’re able to offer retailers while attractive are below your competitors.
So I guess I am trying to get a sense if you foresee this being an issue in getting your brand into certain retail locations in terms of positioning? Yes I really don’t.
I think you need to look at it.
And if you put yourself in your retailer shoes just for a moment it’s a discussion of is there profit and margin right and a discussion about the total amounts of profitability available to the retailer.
And because the turnover of VUSE and the rotation of product on the shelf is just that much higher the absolute gross profit generated to the retailer is significantly higher than anything available in the category.
And so I think when you have that kind of a discussion with retailers it’s a very positive one.
And they see where we’re going with this product.
And happy to report that they are happy to come on board and carry the product and support it.
Okay.
And then in terms of your first wave you mentioned it’s going to be in around 15 000 stores.
So could you talk about any potential capacity constrains you may have and if you’re having difficulties maybe in meeting or fully meeting demand.
And how many stores do you anticipate VUSE will be in by the end of this year? All right.
Let me take this in turn.
We are capacity constrained as we sit here today but we recently made two announcements.
So we made an announcement that we’re going into further two states those being Wisconsin and Indiana.
And we’ll be doing that really in the first half of June.
And then at the end of June we’ll go to an additional 15 000 stores nationally.
So we’ll be effectively available almost everywhere or in every state of the country.
And then we are confident that we can follow that up from some weeks after that with the next big announcement of further expansion nationally.
But of course we’re hedging our bets a little bit because what we don’t know is exactly how large that share is going to be right out of that gate in that next phase of expansion.
And we don’t know for certainty how big the category is going to grow between then and now.
So we do have a little bit of flexibility built into the plan going forward based on some of those capacity constraints.
And in terms of some of these financial commitment actually getting this product rolling it out I think it’s fair to highlight that what’s actually embedded in our profit and loss statement in the other category really the significant cost is about the factory and machine startup costs which are embedded in that and also the acquisition of the purchase of a lot of merchandizing materials that we’re going to need to merchandize this effectively in those expansion stores.
And maybe for ourselves the way we handle our merchandizing acquisition is we actually expense those when they come in.
So we don’t actually put them on the balance sheet and expense them as go out.
We expense them right from the get go.
So you get a little bit of offset in terms of timing.
Some of those expenses will get pulled forward because of that accounting principle.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I guess just my final question would be on Pall Mall and Camel.
Volumes certainly came in much better than expectations.
So could you just drill down a little bit more on some of the drivers behind the strong performance and then how sustainable do you think this momentum is? And I’d certainly be curious to hear what you see as Pall Mall’s ultimate share potential? Yes I think you bring up some good points.
I think we’re very proud of the company in terms of what the key brands particularly Camel and Pall Mall the ones you mentioned what they’ve achieved but to NAS as well.
Right.
Take a look first at Camel at RJRT.
It’s up four-tenths of a percentage point year-over-year so very strong performance.
But I would put that market share performance.
Also in the context actually of our net price realization which came in at slightly above 4% in the first quarter.
And so really it’s driven by true equity spend.
It’s really an equity-driven growth.
And if you remember this time last year we talked a lot about our increased equity investment behind the brand what we were doing from a non-pricing point of view is actually drive that long-term equity.
And I really think this is a reflection of some of those investments we have made and continue to make in terms of the brand.
For Pall Mall it obviously is a slightly simpler consumer proposition in terms of the longer lasting cigarette.
It’s actually up three-tenths so doing quite nicely in the marketplace as well.
And it is less of a equity-driven in the classic sense from a communication point of view proposition but it’s much more about its product point of difference continuing to come true and attract consumer attention.
Now if we take a look at those two growth brands obviously together being up seven-tenths.
It was also happened in the portfolio of RJRT is a decrease or an improvement in the declining trend on the other brands.
So in aggregate at RJRT the company is actually up one-tenths of percentage point.
Now if we take that in conjunction with the Natural American Spirit being up two-tenths.
It means the total cigarette amongst the RAI group of companies is actually up three-tenths.
In fact we can then go a little bit further and say that the total ASC share the American Snuff Company share up eight-tenths with Grizzly up 1.1%.
And if we did that in cigarette equivalent that would actually be another tenth of a share point.
So really total company from a share performance point of view up four-tenths in the first quarter.
And I think that speaks to the fundamental sound strategies in place good diligence in terms of making some smart investments in the business.
And of course that goes without saying that we still have VUSE as the good upside long-term on the back side of that strategy.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So if I read it right you’re also saying that the RJR shipment share declined in the quarter.
So is there an inventory de-load at retail or is at least part of that also that the new measuring system overweights for healthier brands? I think a couple of things going on.
Don’t forget that shipment volume even when adjusted really only talks at wholesale.
Of course the off-take measures what’s actually flowing out of retail.
So you do have that kind of a slight difference in the numbers.
And I also would look at the retail off-take system and methodology that’s there.
That’s largely focused on gas convenience and to a slightly lesser degree the drug channel.
So it doesn’t have a significant representation in some of the other but smaller and declining channels out there.
So I think it’s a combination of those things that would lead to these numbers.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then could you just give us some sense on the RJR margins? You mentioned the sales and marketing expenses.
Is some of that pacing? Can you give us a feel for what was going on in the quarter relative to the rest of the year and just what drove the softness in the margins there? Yes I think at RJRT probably the main thing is in the first quarter we tend to have a national sales conference that we do that about three years.
It fell in the first quarter this year.
And that really hit some of those expenses but of course those expenses are not recurring in the sense that they happen every quarter or every year.
And so that hit the margins there slightly in the first quarter.
Okay that’s helpful.
But then on the Santa Fe side you had a nice jump and certainly the pricing there helps and volume growth but that’s an acceleration from the pace of margin gains you had last year.
Is there anything unusual in the quarter or what would help drive some of that? No.
I would say on Santa Fe you’re right.
It had very healthy margins in the first quarter at 48.3% so really a fantastic quarter.
It also is a brand that we stepped up equity investment in.
And again we refer you back to this time last year when we talked about what we’re going to do.
Of course that Santa Fe with its Natural American Spirit brand that is the true super premium proposition.
That brand has never discounted never on sale and never promoted.
And so it’s doing very well really as a equity-based proposition to consumers with its all natural.
And the big growing styles within it are the organic styles.
So it’s doing extremely well.
Now to be fair the first quarter of last year was also a relatively easy compare for the brand from a year-over-year basis.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
And then back on VUSE following up on Bonnie’s question.
Did you have any – have you offered the product to any retailers who haven’t accepted it? I know you’ve got a case for faster turns but with the lower margins and a lot of products and brands already out there have you had anybody who has just not been interested? No.
I’m going to say no to that question but I am sure somebody somewhere sometime has said no but not to any significant degree that I am aware of.
And in fact very happy.
Most of the conversations that I personally and some of the team has been having with retailers is they are really trying to get their hands on it as quick as possible.
And it’s more about when is it coming and how quickly and can they please be in sort of earlier in the queue.
I would say that that’s certainly been the predominant theme in my interaction with retailers.
And then just on the margins there.
Your commentary in the release it’s clear that the spending is expected to rise in 2Q on that business.
What does the rest of the year look like? It would – obviously if you’re preplanning – if the merchandizing units in some of the production side of costs are front-loaded.
Is there some relief or is that – if you have continued expansion and capacity and continued expansion and distribution is that likely to continue? Just some idea maybe of how to put in context the second half relative to the first half? Yes without getting into too much detail maybe the best way I can answer that is that we’re very confident in our guidance for the entire year.
Having said that obviously the profile throughout the year so quarter-to-quarter or the quarterly splits are going to be slightly different than what we’ve done historically.
And you’re right that in terms of some of these investments particularly on VUSE that depresses the number slightly in the first and second quarter but we’re confident and can reiterate our guidance for the full year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Hi Dan I wish you all the best in your retirement there.
Thank you.
I appreciate.
Sure.
So just two questions I had for you.
The first was last year was a year where you spend a lot back behind your brand equities due to the benefits you had coming through from the MSA.
Obviously those benefits are still there.
I just want to get a sense if you look at this year versus last year is the spending shifting around maybe by brand or is the level of spending picking up at all year-over-year? Yes I think it’s hard for us to make specific comments about specific dollar amounts behind brands.
But I think it’s fair to say that we are continuing that investment profile behind these key equities we have as a company.
And of course within that we’ve highlighted in the past our focus on Camel equity building on Natural American Spirit equity building and on the Grizzly brand as well at the American Snuff Company.
So those are the three key existing brands in the marketplace that we’re investing to continue to enhance the equity.
And if we look at the very solid growth profile both from a consumer point of view the demographics coming through but as well as some of the top line numbers that we’ve been discussing on the call today I think that investment is really paying off.
As we kind of go forward of course there is tweaking of those plans but the overall investment and investment thesis that we have remains intact and in place.
Okay.
And the industry obviously has some further benefits coming later in the year from the growers payments going away.
That certainly is a cost savings for the industry.
And I was just curious does that allow you to be little bit more flexible little bit more of an increasing spending this year as you look ahead of the benefit coming through in the fourth quarter and really even for next year? Yes I think it’s a little bit too early to tell what’s going to happen to those funds.
Do they flow through the P&amp;L in lieu of pricing or in addition to pricing? And that’s the question that remains to be answered.
And if it does lead to flexibility at that stage we’ll make the appropriate decisions about whether to – what the investment profile will be or whether to look that fall through to the bottom line.
Okay.
Just one final one if I could ask on Grizzly.
You’ve got a little more promotional there and certainly Scholes [ph] has been a little more aggressive as well.
So was that in front of that more aggressive spending by your competitor or have you seen any material changes causing you to get even more aggressive if you will and promotional spending behind Grizzly especially here in the second quarter? No.
I think it’s fair and I highlighted in my prepared comments that we have stepped up promotional spending somewhat behind the brand as the brand is responding to that as we see the strong market share increases.
On Grizzly it was the 1.1 share points in the quarter.
But I would characterize that promotional spend as what we’re doing is still being significantly less than our competitors.
And so really it’s not about keeping pace because the equity of Grizzly doesn’t need it’s really an equity led growth.
The equity is growing quarter-by-quarter year-by-year.
So I would really call it as a partial react of spend.
I think it’s probably the best characterization I could put on those expenditures.
Okay very good.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Judy.
First just Dan on the industry volume decline on an adjusted basis of 4.4% for the cigarette market.
I guess it’s a little bit worse than sort of the 3.5% decline that you’ve called out as the average decline for the last few years and it’s ramping up relatively easy comp if I looked at the year ago numbers.
So is there any call outs there just in terms of the underlying consumption decline for the cigarette market? Yes I mean the numbers kind of are what they are.
I can just provide a little bit of color.
I think we still believe the long-term trend is coming back to this 3.5% as a longer term trend.
I do believe that the continued kind of weak economy continues to play on this as does some of the migration to some of these other categories.
Moist-snuff continues to grow.
You look at the vapor category e-cigarette category kind of continuing to grow and SNUS indeed is growing as well.
So I think it’s a combination of a number of different factors but yes you’re right that this number in terms of what was posted in the first quarter is probably slightly ahead of my estimate.
Okay.
And along so maybe similar line when you go into with VUSE markets like Colorado and Utah you talked about the e-cigarette categories really seeing an accelerated growth there.
What are you seeing in those markets in terms of the impacts for the cigarette category particularly maybe markets like Colorado now that you’ve been there for sometime? Yes.
I think it’s fantastic question Judy.
Unfortunately I don’t have all the data to actually share with you from a consumer point of view.
There is no doubt that the majority of consumers that a vast majority of consumers interacting with this category are actually smokers.
But in terms of the impact on consumption in terms of how much they reduce cigarette consumption as they migrate or interact with this new category we don’t have good data on that at this juncture.
Okay.
And have you given us the market share numbers for VUSE both in those markets? I think when you launched in Colorado you had given some of the market share numbers.
I’m wondering what that is right now.
Yes.
I think we’re – I don’t have the number in front of me but it’s shade below 80%.
In both markets? Pardon me? In both.
In both markets very similar.
Okay got it.
And then I just wanted to go back to the VUSE spending and just wanted to clarify a couple of things but first if I look at the Q1 spending it looks like it’s mostly on the cost of goods side.
You’ve talked about startup costs you’ve talked about the merchandizing cost spend.
And is all of that spending really related to more of the full national launch going forward or would that also build as the year progresses? And then the increased spending as we go forward in the out quarters are those more related to more marketing and the equity building type of investments that would likely to hit more of the SG&amp;A line? Yes.
I would say to most of your hypothesis yes.
Let me just delve around in this area a little bit.
So what we’ve got is we’ve obviously got the factory machine startup costs.
And that’s fair to say that we are now installing significant machinery.
Its new generation of machinery but in preparation for future sales and for future rollouts.
The installed capacity where there is really no significant continue startup costs to support the existing markets because those machines are in place and working.
The merchandizing costs I think is largely related to some of the expansion.
And I think your hypothesis is that you are going to see more on the SG&amp;A side going forward relative to some of the product costs.
That’s a correct hypothesis.
Okay.
And just timing-wise the rollout plan seems a little bit maybe less aggressive than I would have thought just two markets in the first half of June.
So why not go more full on just in terms of more progressive full on sort of national launch here? I mean Judy it’s fair to say that our performance in both Colorado and Utah is running significantly ahead of our early expectations.
And therefore in terms of the distribution expansion we’re planning for success.
And we need to make sure that we can actually supply those retailers that we’re signing up at that juncture.
So we’re really hedging our bets and really expecting fantastic results out there.
And we have a flexible plan in place and hope to be making some announcements post the next phase but following on very quickly to take this up to very significant numbers.
Thank you.
And Dan best of luck to you and your retirement.
Thank you Judy.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Sorry my questions are actually been answered.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thanks Owen.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks a lot.
And Dan I second Judy’s comments good luck on your retirement.
It was great working with you in the last couple of years.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We were at a conference in D.C.
where Commissioner Hamburg was guest speaking.
And she indicated that the deeming regs are imminent.
So I’m suspecting they’re going to come up in the next week or so.
Just curious Dan if you had a view on potentially what some of these regs would look like? And then the second question is on VUSE.
Expecting as that the business or the brand has done well.
But is it because of the level of spending you put into market.
So I’m trying to get at how long will it take for this business to actually reach the cigarette like profitability because you have obviously lot of spending going to the marketplace with corp engagement training and things like that.
So I’m just wondering if you didn’t have that level of spending would you necessarily have the kind of market shares you have in the key markets right now.
So if you can just provide any perspective around that? Thank you.
Sure.
Thanks Nik.
Let me take those questions in turn.
If we take a look at the deeming regulation we do not have any idea of what’s particularly in those regulations.
But I think we are supportive of good constructive but also scientifically-based regulations in this category and we look forward to actively participating in the regulatory process.
Now we have engaged the FDA on our VUSE product and have through some of the listening sessions.
I think those were very positive and constructive sessions that we had with the FDA.
And in fact they were heavily attended by the FDA as well.
So I think we’re like many in the industry and on your side as well Nik we’re also waiting with holding our breath really to see what’s going to happen in terms of these deeming regulations when they finally come out.
And I think on the VUSE side of things if we take a look in terms of the expenditure that we’ve actually made I think we’ve made a significant efforts to educate a lot of our retailers on this a lot of consumer engagement going on through retail but through our own folks in the marketplace as well.
We have done a little bit of brand building in Colorado in terms of just building up some awareness.
And in the market of Colorado we’ve also had one – I’d just emphasize that a one direct mail delivery to tobacco consumers in that state.
I think the redemption on that was quite good.
It was about 15% redemption.
So if you took it in kind of the traditional tobacco kind of sense which you’d say is that the volume generated in Colorado has a promoted level of about 5%.
And so if you take that one coupon drop you can say the redemption on it that only accounts for about 5% of the volume.
So 95% of those volume was at regular retail prices.
So we look at that model and say it’s very sustainable.
In fact it is significantly lower than what we had planned to spend in that state going into the launch and that’s obviously because performance was so high.
We were also running behind in terms of capacity.
And so really I would say that it’s a very sustainable model going forward.
And we’re very confident that we’re making appropriate but judicious investments behind that rollouts going forward.
Thank you Dan.
Thank you Nik.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for the question.
I was hoping that you could provide just a little bit more color around the thought process behind drawing down on your revolver.
It sounds like it was on sort of in lieu of commercial paper access I don’t believe you have a program in place but if you just talk to sort of why that strategy makes more sense and reach by accepting the commercial paper market or putting in a shorter term floating note or potentially another term loan? Sure.
This is Tom.
We drew on the revolver – we upsized the revolver last year to $1.35 billion with the clear intention of borrowing only at the time that we needed which is frankly during our low point in cash which is April when we make our MSA payment.
And so we drawdown on the credit facility to pay just little over 1% and then we will quickly be able to pay that back during the balance of the year.
So it provides us a lot of flexibility without making long-term commitment.
And to your earlier point no we do not have a commercial paper program at this point.
Do you have any intent to potentially add a commercial paper program? We discuss those types of things but no intent at this point.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We do have a follow-up question from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
One quick follow-up just on buybacks.
Can you just remind us is it what about $200 million or $300 million you have left in the current authorization? And can you give any update on if you feel like you’ve got a deal you can strike with BAT to keep that going beyond into the second half with – I think you were trying to make sure if you continued any more that they would participated to change their ownership stake if you have any update on where that might stand? You are right.
We have about $300 million left and we’ll complete that in the second quarter of this year.
And we are in discussions with the board and BAT right now about an additional share repurchase program.
And your current guidance reflects only the known authorization and not any potential benefit you might get from – if these negotiations work out? That is correct.
Okay.
Thanks and best of luck Dan too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Dan Delen for closing remarks.
Yes I want to say again how much I’ve enjoyed working with all of you.
As Tom and I have made clear today we’ve had a great quarter and our operating companies are well positioned for the road ahead.
I’m excited about business return to the company and I’m confident that our upward trajectory will continue under her very experienced leadership.
Great things lie ahead for RAI its employees and its investors.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.