Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll review Reynolds American results for the second quarter as well as our earnings projections for the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
I'll start off by saying that it's been a very exciting and busy past few weeks for us at Reynolds American.
Two weeks ago we announced our plans to acquire Lorillard and its growth brand Newport which will substantially enhance our core cigarette portfolio at R.J.
Reynolds.
The potential addition of Newport to R.J.
Reynolds' lineup of growth brands is as you know a very exciting prospect.
We are working diligently to prepare our proposed acquisition for clearance by regulators in the coming months as well as for shareholder and other approvals.
I remain confident that we will reach a successful closure of the transaction in the first half of next year.
We will provide updates on the progress of the transaction as we move ahead and I encourage you to keep an eye on our new transaction website at reynoldsamericaninfo.com.
But in the meantime it really is business as usual.
I can assure you that we are keeping our focus on building our business and delivering excellent shareholder value which I'll now turn to with the discussion of our quarterly results and the progress that we are making in our transformation journey.
I'm very pleased to report that Reynolds American increased both earnings and margin in the second quarter based on the strong performance of all of our reportable business segments.
R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe each continue to benefit from their effective strategies and decision execution as their powerful key brands continue to gain market share in what is a very competitive environment.
The quarter's achievements rounded out an excellent first half for RAI and that allowed us to tighten our guidance for the full year.
We now expect gross and adjusted EPS in the range of 5% to just over 8% compared with last year's adjusted results.
I will remind you that our earnings projections take into account this year's increased investment on the VUSE digital vapor cigarette as well as ongoing equity-building initiatives on our operating companies' key brands.
Now let's discuss our performance in more detail.
At R.J.
Reynolds we saw further gains in second quarter adjusted operating income and margin.
As we said in our press release the company's cigarette volume was negatively impacted by 1 less shipping day as well as a reduction in wholesale inventory levels.
Even so it is clear that the underlying drivers of the industry-wide decline in cigarette volume includes some traditional economic pressure points as well as the growing demand for smoke-free alternative including vapor products.
However we see the growth of the vapor category as a great opportunity for R.J.
Reynolds Vapor Company which is currently expanding its VUSE digital vapor cigarette nationally.
Even with the decline in R.J.
Reynolds cigarette volume I'm pleased to report strong market share performance by its Camel and Pall Mall growth brands.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds' total market share was down only slightly at 26.5% for the quarter.
On a combined basis Camel and Pall Mall now account for more than 70% of the company's total cigarette share of market.
Together these brands increased their market share by 0.5 share point to 19.5%.
Camel grew its market share by 0.4 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 10.2%.
The brand continues to benefit from growth in its premium menthol styles which have grown to 4.3% of the market.
Camel SNUS also continued to perform well in the quarter maintaining its leadership position in the SNUS category with about 80% of this market.
As you know the Camel brand offers a range of experiences and bold innovations and adult tobacco consumers are taking up the invitation in the Taste It All marketing campaign currently underway.
From authentic Camel Blues to Camel Crush with its menthol capsule technology and the smoke-free convenience of Camel SNUS.
Pall Mall continues to benefit from its true value positioning as a longer-lasting cigarette at a great price.
The brand remains the nation's top-selling value brand and added 0.1 of a share point in the second quarter to 9.3%.
Now turning to American Snuff.
The moist snuff category remains highly competitive but the company reported solid performance in the quarter and for the first half of the year.
While American Snuff saw a volume decline in the quarter due to lower wholesale inventories the company increased its market share by 0.5 share point to 34.4%.
Once again American Snuff's flagship Grizzly brand drove the company's performance.
Grizzly did benefit from increased promotional support in response to more intense competitive activity but the brand's equity is second to none and that continues to drive its appeal.
Grizzly has begun one of its biggest marketing campaigns yet called Days of Roar which gives brand enthusiasts a chance to win prizes by mixing it up and sharing outdoor stories and photos.
I would also note that the recent national expansion of Grizzly's Wide Cut Wintergreen style is proving very successful.
And the brand continues to perform especially well in the fast-growing pouch segment.
Now turning to Santa Fe which just continues to build momentum.
The company reported a double-digit increase in operating income for the quarter as well as the first half and operating margin continue to improve.
The company's Natural American Spirit brand continues to grow its market share gaining 0.2 of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 1.6%.
Natural American Spirit has an extremely loyal franchise for its additive-free natural tobacco styles and the brand is seeing increased interest in its styles made with organic tobacco.
Before I hand the call to Tom for more details I'd like to give you a quick update on the progress being made by VUSE digital vapor cigarette.
As you know VUSE started the first wave of its national expansion in June and the next phase is scheduled for early September.
The rollout is going well and VUSE is now in about 21 000 selected retail outlets.
I'm thrilled by VUSE's strong performance into its first major market in Colorado which was followed by Utah Wisconsin and Indiana.
This is a game-changing vapor product that we believe will carve out a leading position in the vapor category.
We continue to believe that vapor will be a key dynamic in the transformation of the tobacco industry.
VUSE is an excellent example of one of our company's key strengths innovation.
And now we hope to take advantage of the opportunity to expand this technology globally with our pursuit of a technology-sharing agreement with British American Tobacco which offers opportunity for further development and commercialization for next-generation products.
We'll keep you updated as we make progress on this initiative.
And one last thing I'd like to mention: this Friday is a big day for us when we celebrate RAI's 10th anniversary by ringing the closing bell on the New York Stock Exchange.
So if you have a moment please tune in and join us for this milestone.
We've accomplished a great deal over these past 10 years but even more important I'm confident that great things lie ahead.
Now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI again delivered strong operating performance in the second quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $0.89 which was up 6% from the prior year quarter.
As higher pricing the ongoing benefit from the partial settlement of certain NPM Adjustment claims and the favorable impact from the share repurchase program more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investment behind VUSE.
Adjusted results exclude a $0.04 one-time benefit from the settlement of the NPM dispute payments with 2 additional states Kentucky and Indiana as well as charges at $0.01 related to Engle progeny lawsuits and implementation costs.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $0.92 up 9.5% from the prior year quarter.
For the first half adjusted EPS was $1.60 up 2.6% from the prior year.
Please note that this also excludes the items I just mentioned as well as the earlier gain of $0.04 from discontinued operations.
Our adjusted operating margin came in very strong gaining 0.8 of a percentage point in the quarter to 37.4%.
As Susan mentioned we have tightened our earnings guidance to a range of $3.35 to $3.45 versus our prior guidance of $3.30 to $3.45.
This guidance excludes the one-time benefit from the NPM partial settlement the gain from discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs Engle progeny lawsuits and other tobacco-related litigation.
Guidance also reflects this year's investment on the national expansion of VUSE as well as continued initiatives to build the equity of our operating company's key brands.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
At R.J.
Reynolds second quarter adjusted operating income increased nearly 5.5% to $698 million as higher pricing and lower MSA costs more than offset the cigarette volume decline.
For the second quarter the company's adjusted operating margin increased 3.3 percentage points to 40.2% bringing first half adjusted margin to 38%.
Turning to cigarette volumes.
Susan has already covered the factors impacting cigarette volumes so I'll focus on the details of the changes.
R.J.
Reynolds' second quarter cigarette shipments declined 8.3% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 5.5%.
Taking into account adjustments for wholesale inventory changes the company estimates that its volume was down about 6.8% while industry volume was down about 4.4%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6 billion units at the end of the second quarter down about 1.1 billion from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 400 million.
I would note that we've seen some recovery in inventory levels this month.
At American Snuff second quarter operating income of $110 million was up slightly from the adjusted prior year quarter and this brought the first half to $212 million.
The company benefited from higher pricing in both periods which more than offset increased promotional support on Grizzly.
American Snuff's second quarter operating margin remains strong at 56.3% bringing the first half margin to 55.7%.
Turning to the company's moist snuff volume.
American Snuff's volume was down slightly in the quarter primarily impacted by 1 less shipping day and lower wholesale inventory levels.
However adjusting for the wholesale inventory change the company estimates that its volume rose by about 4.6%.
For the industry moist snuff volume growth held steady at about 4%.
Moving on to Santa Fe's performance.
Higher volume and pricing drove an increase in second quarter operating income of just over 15% to $84 million.
And that brought Santa Fe's first half operating income to $149 million which was up 19.3% from the adjusted prior year quarter.
Santa Fe's second quarter operating margin came in at 49.6% up 0.4 of a percentage point from the adjusted prior year quarter.
As Susan told you the Natural American Spirit brand made further gains in market share and that was on volume growth of nearly 8%.
Now I'd like to cover some of RAI's other financial highlights.
We completed our $2.5 billion share repurchase program in the quarter which we started back in November of 2011.
During the quarter the company purchased 4.8 million shares for $267 million.
Total shares repurchased under the program were 55.4 million for a total of $2.5 billion.
The average price paid was $45.16.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.3 billion and this takes into account R.J.
Reynolds' MSA payment of $1.5 billion in April.
All in all it's been a very successful first half for RAI and our operating companies' businesses and we're focused on continuing that strong momentum.
In addition the excitement around our plans to purchase Lorillard has certainly been evident here and we'll be reporting progress when there are further developments on that front.
The Lorillard acquisition provides a great opportunity to propel our business to the next level providing an enhanced platform for RAI to deliver even greater value to our shareholders and continue our transformation journey.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Sam would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nik Modi of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on -- regarding the margins in the RJRT business.
Obviously very strong despite its pricing in MSA.
And I'm just trying to see if there's anything else going on there in terms of just cost controls any new programs going on internally if you can just provide some perspective around that.
Nik really it's the net price realization.
You could see those numbers 5.7% at RJRT net price realization in the quarter that's very strong.
The market continues to be competitive but I feel very proud of our businesses in the way we're balancing profitability and market share.
The brands are performing very well and that has -- and we've been successful in growing the margins.
So it was a very good quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And Susan on the pricing topic I mean I'm just trying to get an understanding because it looks like there's just been a nice step up starting with Altria when they reported last week.
So I'm just trying to understand what exactly has changed because the pricing has accelerated quite a bit quarter-to-quarter.
Well but -- obviously the impact of the price increase that came in May has fallen through to the quarter and the competitive environment has been relatively stable and you can see there's actually more competition going on in that moist sector.
You can see that in the net price realization in the difference.
And in the cigarette category everybody's competing.
But the price realization has come through across the board.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the pricing because certainly it was strong but is it also to do with the fact that the price increase during the quarter came a month earlier than the year-ago period so I imagine that also had a positive impact.
But were there other factors that drove the better pricing such as you guys being more efficient with your programs at retail? That's my first question.
And as vapor and e-cigs increasingly displace cigs affordability really has been one of the key reasons.
So what impact do you think this will have on combustible cig pricing power over the long term? Well I'll -- Bonnie this is Tom.
I'll answer the first part on the net price realization.
You're right the price increase this year came earlier in May and so most of the price protection had -- that we had done for our partners got flushed through the -- by the end of May which left June as a month that we actually could enjoy the increased pricing.
And so that actually benefited this year versus last year.
And on the vapor piece I think it's still early going.
And yes there are differences but some of those vapor cigarettes and as well as our cartridges do have a cost advantage over traditional cigarettes.
But there's still obviously a place in -- for combustible cigarettes in this business.
Yes.
I would add to that Bonnie.
I mean I think Tom's right it is early days and you have to think of this wholesale inventory kind of issue in that wholesalers are being asked to take in a whole new variety of products.
And so there's been a lot of launches in the vapor space.
And of course there's only so much money to put into inventory.
But I don't think we're seeing yet any displacement in terms of pricing capacity in the combustible space.
I don't see that trading off.
And consumers' desires to try these vapor products is also driven by the desire for trying new categories.
So I think we'll see how this plays out.
But I -- we have seen lots of pricing over the years here in this market.
We've seen price elasticities remain constant for decades.
And we know on a global basis it's still not relatively high.
So I think that the business is strong and the brands are performing well and there's competition out there and consumers are trying alternative.
But anytime you have a new category in a growth mode it's hard to see the full effects of that for -- until we put some months underneath it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes no that's a very good point.
And then just in terms of some of your own internal market research how much do you estimate this category is negatively impacting combustible cigs now? I mean could you quantify how big of impact vapor is having in your view? And then it appears that the personal vaporized or type products are really where the market is heading somewhat away from the cig-alike e-cigs.
So I'd be curious to hear your thoughts and how this is playing out and maybe how your technology stacks up.
Well I think our opinion it's early days even on the consumer side.
Because people are trying lots of stuff and they're giving up on it and they're going back and trying other one.
I think really we believe VUSE is a game-changing product because it truly does satisfy the consumer in a way that almost all other I suspect e-cig-alikes do not.
And if we look at even the -- what do we call the pipe Oh the tanks.
The tanks the tanks.
If we look at the tanks and if we look when VUSE went into Colorado was before that tank sort of alternative had become the wave and we've seen very low development in the tank space.
So I feel very confident that as VUSE rolls out nationally and people can be satisfied with VUSE which doesn't have the refilling issue it's very convenient it's very sanitary et cetera.
I believe we'll see VUSE make a real impact on that market.
But consumers are experimental and we'll have to see where we land.
But I believe that our objective is to become a leader in this vapor category and that VUSE has the capacity to deliver that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just in terms of trying to quantify it do you feel comfortable putting a number to what percentage of smokers are vaping maybe exclusively and then maybe just some of the time just based on some of your research [ph].
No that's what I -- I can't yet Bonnie.
It's just a little bit too early.
But we do know that 40% of adult tobacco consumers are interested in trying these alternatives.
Now that's an intent it's not a statement of -- but a very high percentage of people we do know have tried vapor.
What is very hard to say at this stage is how many of them are switching how many are dual-using how many have turned it into [indiscernible] how many -- so but this will come out in the next few months as VUSE becomes national.
And of course our competitors are all out there now in national distribution.
We'll be able to read that and we'll certainly provide more information as it becomes available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last follow-up to that is in the quarter adjusted industry volumes were down 4.5% which is trending below historical I know it's just 1 quarter but last year was down as well.
So how do you think about this over the next few years? Do you think minus 4% or minus 5% for industry volume declines is now the new norm? We are thinking this year will be down 4%.
But I think we again very much need to see how these alternatives play out.
Because if that's -- traditional combustibles but vapor grows faster and we have equivalent margins on vapor that we have to the combustibles then that may not be so material.
But it's just early.
But we do think this year we're halfway through there's been some inventory switches so we are thinking it's 4% this year.
And as I said we'll keep you posted.
Our next question comes from David Adelman of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First I wanted to ask you a couple of questions about the proposed Lorillard purchase.
And the first is how do you think you'll earn your cost of capital and how long do you think it will take to get there? And I ask that because on the information you've provided with full synergies you expect an additional $1.7 billion in EBIT.
But the cost net of the divestitures after tax the total cost of the buying and selling businesses and brands is over $23 billion.
So that's my first question.
How do you exceed your cost of capital and how long do you think it will take to get there? Well Dave.
This is Tom.
I think we're -- as we've mentioned in our opening remarks we expect to close this in the middle of 2015.
And so we expect accretion that would begin that year to build to -- in the mid-teens by 2016 and into '17 and thereafter maintain and actually probably increase over time.
And what we've built in this $800 million those are just cost synergies.
I mean we really haven't put anything in about revenue synergies.
And -- but we would expect that there would be revenue synergies in the way that we would expect to sell more units of Newport and more units of Camel as a result of the geographic complementary nature of those brands.
Research Division</strong> And Tom what assumption are you making about the baseline level of EPS that Reynolds would have in calculating that level of accretion? In other words just as one example are you assuming that Reynolds would continue or would not have continued with its recent pace of buybacks? We would -- we were assuming that Reynolds would continue but not with the -- but not -- we hadn't put any buybacks in our forecast because we have none approved by the board.
So basically a run rate on Reynolds without buybacks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Separately am I right that the 2 additional states that entered into the NPM adjustment generate an annual ongoing benefit to EPS of about $0.04 a share for full year 2014? And if that's the case is that the principal driver of the change in your guidance for the year? You're right about the $0.04.
But that is not the principal reason to drive our guidance up.
Our business is operating better.
David I think it's funny -- this is Susan because we always got discredited when we lost our brands in the tail.
We lost the market share and of course now the NPM credit which is actually a credit because we lost the market share of the tail we're getting discredited for.
So it's rather ironic.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last thing can you give us some sense of the likely trajectory of losses at VUSE in that division? The losses were up sequentially presumably you're close to the peak level of losses.
Or maybe saying it a different way when do you think that business given how you envision operating the investment spending when do you think it gets to breakeven? Well as you've seen in our results in the Other segment that's where VUSE is we would expect to continue to invest in that business through the balance of this year.
And all this is in our guidance -- contemplated by our guidance -- and into the early part of next year.
But sometime by the middle of next year in '15 we would expect this to be a profitable business.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
And firstly just a quick one on Grizzly.
I was just wondering how much of the volumes are now in pouches and how does this compare to a year ago? And then secondly on VUSE how much further capacity do you need to add in the second half? And also obviously as this category is one that's evolving very rapidly I was just wondering how flexible is the factory in terms of developing the product into newer versions? Would this require a significant more amount of investment or is it easily just switched into newer versions quite quickly? Thanks Owen.
I think Grizzly's -- the percent of Grizzly volume that today is in pouches is give or take 15% and Morris will check that figure and if it's wrong he will call you.
But I think it's 15%.
And we are delighted because Grizzly has performed very well in that pouch category.
It is the fastest-growing category in moist and has been for the past several years.
In terms of the VUSE capacity we are ramping up we are pleased with the way the machines and the capacity has come online.
And we have already contemplated sort of next-generation manufacturing and it's built into our plan.
So I would say you're absolutely right that this category requires nimbleness and flexibility and we are completely aware of that.
The other thing that I think is exciting is the opportunity for VUSE technology and future next-generation products as we explore this R&amp;D and technology-sharing relationship with BAT.
Because that will enable fast capacity growth and I think nimble R&amp;D turnaround.
So we're excited about that.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my first question has to do with VUSE.
While I recognize that the first wave is still very early days having come out in late June.
I was wondering whether you could maybe comment on Wisconsin and Indiana which went out a couple of weeks earlier and whether you're seeing trends consistent with Colorado and Utah? Vivien it's still a little bit too early for that.
We will certainly keep you posted we are pleased in terms of the reorders.
There's nothing that has surprised us and we're still very pleased with the results.
But I think it's a little premature to give those states specific numbers.
But we are very happy also with this broader rollout.
And the next wave of the rollout is going out 1st of September.
And we'll be looking and giving more specifics as to when we will get to truly national.
But we're quite optimistic.
We've also held that back a bit of the marketing because we want to be sure we have that geographic presence.
So we're looking for a great success as we come in to this third and fourth quarter and we'll provide the numbers as they become available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
That dovetails perfectly into my next question.
Can you quantify the retail footprint that you're targeting for wave 2 in September for the VUSE rollout? We actually haven't specifically decided exactly which stores it will be in at this juncture.
And that's because frankly as we came out and went national towards at the end of June we have to see what capacity looks like and demand.
And if the demand is anywhere close to what it's like in Colorado and Utah then we actually may scale back the demand or try and increase the amount of capacity that we have or some combination of both.
Yes.
I would just add to say that we are fully committed to getting a very strong national footprint like the 140 000 type of outlet level by the first quarter.
So we just have to see how that unfolds.
LLC Research Division</strong> And of the 21 000 outlets that VUSE is currently in are you experiencing capacity constraints at all? Are any of those outlets are on allocation? Not -- there are no outlets on allocation and actually we had build up inventory in advance of all this stuff.
So we're in good shape and the machines are coming online and things are starting to hum.
So we're very confident with where we are right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very good news.
My last question has to do with the tobacco buyout expense that will get eliminated in the fourth quarter.
Any updated thinking on the role that pricing will play in terms of driving earnings growth? Look I mean you're right about the tobacco quota buyout going away.
With respect to how that manifests itself going forward is -- in terms of -- I'm not going to speculate on that.
Vivien we're not the price leader here.
So we'll see what happens.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions for you.
I wanted to ask first have you -- said you've submitted your application to the FTC for the merger yet is that still to come? Have you indicated that yet? Chris we are actually filing the HSR today.
So we are just now saying that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Good timing.
Just 2 more quick questions if I could.
I want to -- if you look at the investments you made in the prior year -- started in the prior year behind your core equities your brand equities have those continued this rate or have you shipped [ph] some of those dollars I mean now you've got an important one in VUSE this year and a big launch.
So I'm just curious how those investments have gone across the brands Camel Pall Mall Grizzly and Santa Fe around the VUSE investments? Chris this is Tom.
It's been pretty stable and it's largely on Camel and Grizzly and Natural American Spirit with a slight amount on Pall Mall.
But these are all equity-building investments consumer engagement those types of things which we feel are very impactful to the consumers in the converting.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And to that point then Tom launching VUSE and having a more aggressive investment in VUSE I mean your -- sort of your net investment if you want to call it that your brand-building is actually your equity building has just gone up this year is that what you're saying? Yes definitely.
The investment with -- when you add VUSE into that patch and we've said there's other investments behind VUSE.
If you think about things like merchandising materials and VUSE has got racks hopefully you've seen them on many chain stores in your area.
But so that's sort of a one-time thing with the merchandisers.
And so VUSE had incremental launch expense and the other brands have had continued equity-building promotional support.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question.
As you look at the brands of Winston Salem and Kool that you're divesting is there any need for you to invest in those brands in the short run to maybe stabilize their market share performances or basically to hand them off in a better position when that occurs or when the merger closure next year.
We're obviously keeping an eye on them because we've sold them -- we've sold the package.
Clearly Imperial is planning to support some of those brands.
And so we'll obviously keep an eye on that.
But I think we're going to have a strong competitor Imperial.
We're delighted to be acquiring Newport into the R.J.
Reynolds portfolio.
We believe we will have the strongest and most balanced portfolio in the industry.
So obviously we will keep an eye because this divestiture package will be handed off upon closure of the transaction.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> You just mentioned what a strong Imperial you consider -- what a strong competitor you consider Imperial to be.
But you also alluded earlier to potential revenue synergies.
How do you balance those 2 in terms of needing to kind of equip them meaningfully enough to convince regulators that they're a viable competitor but also having brands that are being divested that have lost share within your portfolio? Do you expect those brands to gain share from you post-deal? Do you expect to gain share -- what's the right way to think about how to balance that together? Well I think if you think about that Imperial will have 10 share points and today they have like 2 share points and they're a global competitor you can see how -- and they will invest in those brands and of course we have not invested in those brands particularly.
But I believe -- and so yes there'll be some movement in the market.
But I believe that our profiles and our -- the geographic balance that we will gain in the growth portfolio and our demographic profile will compete very very well.
And of course we'll still have what are quite often affectionately called tail brands.
We still have in the portfolio if the transaction is approved 90% of our volume will be in the drive brand.
But we also will still have 10% of the volume in some of our current support or non -- the sort of non-support brands with Misty and Capri and Old Gold and of course there's still other deep-discount brands and businesses out in the market.
So there'll still be some market share in flux I would say.
But I believe Imperial will be a strong competitor.
But I believe we will have in my opinion the strongest most balanced brand portfolio and our commitment to this transformation of the tobacco industry with our participation in categories across the space committed to offer adult tobacco consumers a full range of products.
As we've said before including Niconovum.
I feel that we will be excellently well served to achieve that vision.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And you mentioned filing the HSR today.
Can you just give a sense of what some of -- any other of the next steps are or milestones to watch for or just a little bit of some of the timing in terms of what to expect? Yes.
We will update when we can Chris on the reynoldsamericaninfo.com.
I've been advised that the process is actually fairly private in the context that there won't be a lot of visibility of that review process as it's unfolding.
But whatever we know and can disclose we will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on VUSE.
You alluded to this earlier when you were talking about warehouse inventory constraints.
But in terms of -- you also said there was the trade deloading that impacted some of the cigarette volumes.
Are those related is there certainly a dip in the shipments on cigarettes just because of VUSE going national late in the quarter? And then related to that are you seeing the same thing with any pressure on facings at retail? Michael this is Tom.
I don't think there's any relationship between the inventory deload on the combustible cigarette side and our national launch of VUSE.
And with respect to are we losing any space? No we're not losing any space.
I mean we're actually plugging those VUSE fixtures into the middle of what had been basically a flipper in the contracted space.
So we're not losing any visible facings.
I think what you have to think about is that the wholesalers and the retailers there's a -- VUSE has gone nationally our competitors have gone national that it's just that the wholesaler and retailer have been asked to invest either more money in inventory across the space or they're reducing some of their volume in the combustibles to accommodate the inventory requirements of these launches.
So Altria was out there with a big launch VUSE really is relatively small compared to that.
But I just think we're going to see how these inventories net out.
I think Tom mentioned in his script we've seen some recoveries in those inventories as we've come into July.
So we'll keep you posted.
Research Division</strong> But at retail the facings are 100% incremental or I guess something very close to that? They're not all incremental.
But -- so we've recalibrated some of our space to place VUSE and that can impact the inventory.
But what primarily predicts the inventory is the demand.
And -- but retailers and wholesalers will be balancing that with incremental requests to buy more new stock.
So -- but we feel confident that we have the space to accommodate what we need at retail and we have a strong portfolio to do that.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Susan so just on the -- on your comment about the technology-sharing agreement that you're pursuing with BAT.
Maybe a little bit more color around just given the relationship that both companies have had in the past what may have been preventing the agreement to go forward in a more accelerated fashion? What would drive that agreement to essentially accelerate going forward? And maybe just some timeline that could help us out in terms of how we're thinking about the past.
I think well we have shared technology.
As you know Reynolds developed the capsule technology and we've licensed that to British American Tobacco.
So we've done this more in sort of one-off technology areas.
And I think both companies as the strategies -- BAT's strategy on a global basis and Reynolds' strategy in terms of our vision to transform the industry here in the United States I think those strategies have dovetailed.
And so British American Tobacco is very interested in heat-not-burn opportunities and of course we've done a lot of development over the years in that space.
And I think they view very positively our VUSE technology.
So the opportunity for us to sort of work together and not duplicate in that space I think will result in better and stronger R&amp;D because of less duplication and a faster commercialization of new technology.
And certainly with the FDA here in the U.S.
and preapprovals being required for certain new product offerings doesn't mean that new product offerings can't be launched elsewhere with more rapidity.
And I think that's an opportunity.
And that all shareholders on both sides will benefit.
And so Judy the other answer to your question we have not defined specifically the structure of that initiative.
Because as you can appreciate we were working hard on the 4-party transaction.
And now we are sitting down with BAT who are very interested in figuring out how we'll structure this to all parties' benefit.
Research Division</strong> And would that -- would the deal have to close before that agreement to be structured in a way that both parties would benefit? No.
Absolutely not.
That will be totally separate unrelated and we want that initiative up and running certainly before we would expect to close the transaction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one clarification on the potential transaction.
Is there any impact on your MSA cost or FDA user fee or anything with respect to the brands you're transferring to Imperial potentially? No there's not.
Those will just go straight across.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
[Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions in queue.
I'd like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.
Okay.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.