Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll review Reynolds American results for the third quarter and nine months as well as our outlook for the balance of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we're not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thanks Morris.
Good morning everyone.
I’m delighted with RAI’s results for the third quarter which reflects the continued strong performance of our operating companies.
For some time now our strategy has been to strengthen the operational performance and profitability of our core cigarette and moist snuff businesses.
As you can see from today’s report these efforts are really paying off.
Earnings and margin are up across the Board and our companies’ key brand remained a powerful force in the competitive marketplace.
Our companies are also building for the long-term and that means investing in platforms for sustainable growth in an evolving environment as part of our strategy to transform the tobacco industry.
This too is paying off.
For example I’m very pleased with the results today of the national expansion of VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette which began in June.
By early next week VUSE will available in almost 70 000 selected retail outlets across the country and this will be followed by an additional wave of expansion early in the New Year.
VUSE production capacity is still being ramped up and I would remind everyone that the company will continue to make substantial investments on VUSE in the fourth quarter in line with the brand’s expansion.
A second investment in our transformational product portfolio is the national expansion of Niconovum USA’s ZONNIC and RT gum which is generating strong interest from retailers and smokers.
ZONNIC which performed very well in its initial markets of Iowa and Omaha is expected to be in about 8 000 selected outlets by the end of October and its national presence will continue to grow through the rest of this year.
We will have a lot more to say about VUSE and ZONNIC as well as other innovative development during the webcast of our Annual Investor Day presentation next month.
So that’s a top level look at our successful performance to-date.
Before I turn to the quarter’s performance in more detail I want to welcome Debra Crew as the new President and Chief Commercial Officer of R.J.
Reynolds.
Debra who joined us at the beginning of this month has extraordinary experience in growing some of America’s best known consumer brands and I know that she is going to play a key role in our mission to lead the transformation of the tobacco industry.
I also want to give you a quick update on where we are with the Lorillard transaction.
We continue to work hard on obtaining the necessary regulatory shareholder and other approval for our proposed acquisition of Lorillard including the divestiture of select brands and assets to Imperial Tobacco.
As expected we received the second request for additional information from the Federal Trade Commission and we are in the process of responding to that.
We have also just filed our preliminary joint proxy statement and prospectus with the SEC.
As you know this is a complex process but all in all things are progressing smoothly.
I remain confident that we will reach a successful closure of the transaction in the first half of next year and transition planning is well underway.
I would remind you that we have a dedicated transaction website at reynoldsamericaninfo.com and we will continue to update you on progress as new information become available.
Now let’s turn to the discussion of our quarterly results.
Reynolds American increased both adjusted earnings and margin in the third quarter on net sales growth of almost 5% wrapping up a strong first nine months.
As a result of this successful performance and with a clear eye on what’s in store for the rest of 2014 I am pleased to say that we are on track to meet our earnings guidance for the full year.
Today we reaffirmed that we expect an increase in adjusted EPS of 5% to 8.2% over last year’s adjusted results.
I’d remind you that this projection takes into account the investments behind VUSE as well as the ongoing equity building initiative on our operating companies’ key brands.
Naturally there is an impact on short-term earnings from these investments but these expenditures position us well for profitable long-term growth.
R.J.
Reynolds American Snuff and Santa Fe really came through in the third quarter with higher net pricing realization being a significant contributor to earnings and margin growth.
Our companies also continue to refine their approach to balancing market share and profit growth.
During the quarter R.J.
Reynolds also benefited from a moderation in its cigarette volume decline especially when compared to the first half of this year.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share which were supported by solid performance of its growth brand Camel and Pall Mall was down one-tenth of 1% from the prior year quarter at 26.6%.
For the first nine months their share was flat with the prior year period and the combined cigarette market share for RAI’s operating companies was up in each quarter this year and increased by two-tenths of a share point for the first nine months.
R.J.
Reynolds growth brand Camel and Pall Mall had a combined market share of 19.7% for the quarter that’s up three-tenths of the percentage point.
Again it's worth noting that R.J.
Reynolds streamlined portfolio and strategic focus on these two brands has made a huge difference to the company's bottom-line.
Camel continue to deliver great performance increasing its third quarter market share by four-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 10.4% and that was on volume growth of 3%.
This growing momentum was seen across both its regular and menthol styles.
Camel’s growth is driven by its very strong brand equity and it’s also clear that the company’s innovative capsule technology on the brand’s menthol offering has been a significant factor in the brand’s growth.
CAMEL Snus also continued to perform well in the quarter maintaining its leadership position in this Snus category with about 80% of that market.
Pall Mall the nation’s number one value brand by a wide margin delivered solid performance in the quarter with the market share at 9.3%.
Pall Mall continues to maintain its strong conversion rate of about 50% among adult smokers who try the brand.
Going forward Pall Mall is expected to benefit from a recent upgrade in its packaging.
This incorporates a more modern look and each pack is embossed for a premium in-hand feel and appearance.
Now turning to American Snuff which continues to perform well in a highly competitive promotional environment the company reported a double-digit increase in third quarter operating income and its operating margin came in very strong.
American Snuff flagship Grizzly brand increased market share during the quarter to 31.1%.
The company continues to invest in equity building initiative to further enhance the Grizzly brand.
At Santa Fe third quarter performance was outstanding.
The company also delivered double-digit operating income growth well its operating margin continue to widen.
Santa Fe's Natural American Spirit cigarette brand found new opportunities for growth for its additive-free tobacco styles including those made with organic tobacco.
Natural American Spirit packaging was also recently upgraded aligning its iconic logo across the portfolio.
The brand added two-tenths of a share point from the prior year quarter to 1.7%.
So that’s the top level review of a very successful quarter and first nine months.
Before I hand the call to Tom for more detail I’d like to mention another highlight which speaks to the effort of all our companies are making on long-term sustainability.
RAI announced in September that it had been selected again to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index.
We greatly value this independent recognition as it demonstrates our commitment to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
We wrapped up an excellent nine months at RAI with third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.95 which was up 10.5% from the prior year quarter.
Higher pricing was a significant factor as well as the ongoing benefit from the partial settlement of certain NPM adjustment claims and the favorable impact from the share repurchase program that we completed in the second quarter of this year.
These items more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investment behind VUSE.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.05 per share for transaction-related and financing costs and the charge of $0.02 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits.
On reported basis third quarter EPS was $0.88 up 4.8% from the prior year quarter.
From the first nine months adjusted EPS was $2.55 up almost 5.5% from the prior year period.
This also excludes the items I've just mentioned as well as the one-time benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement a gain on discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs and other tobacco-related litigation earlier in the year.
RAI’s adjusted operating margin also continued to improve increasing two-tenths of a percentage point to 38%.
As Susan mentioned we are reaffirming our earnings guidance for the full year in the range of $3.35 to $3.45 per share.
I would note that this guidance excludes the items I just referenced that were excluded from the nine months results.
Our guidance also reflects this year’s investment on the national expansion of VUSE as well as continued initiatives to build the equity of our operating companies’ key brands.
Now I’ll turn to our operating companies’ performance where I will focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
RJ Reynolds had an especially good quarter with adjusted operating income increasing by just over 14.5% to $748 million as higher pricing and lower MSA cost more than offset the cigarette volume decline.
The company’s adjusted operating margin came in very strong as well increasing 4.1 percentage points to 41.6% and that brought nine month adjusted margin to 39.2%.
As Susan mentioned the decline in cigarette volumes moderated during the third quarter.
RJ Reynolds third quarter cigarette shipments declined 2.9% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 2.3%.
After adjusting for changes in wholesale inventory levels RJ Reynolds estimate their volume declined about 4.3% while industry volume was down about 2.7% in the quarter.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7 billion units at the end of the third quarter down about 800 million from the prior year quarter while RJ Reynolds inventories of approximately 1.7 billion were down about 200 million.
At American Snuff third quarter operating income increased by almost 11% to $117 million bringing the first nine months to $329 million up 6.5%.
The benefit of higher pricing and volume more than offset additional promotional support required in the highly competitive moist snuff market and these higher support levels are expected to continue in the fourth quarter.
American Snuff’s third quarter operating margin increased 0.8 percentage point to 57.8% and that brought the company’s nine month margin to 56.4%.
Turning to moist-snuff volume American Snuff’s volume increased 2.9% from the prior year quarter compared to the industry growth of about 3% to 4%.
Grizzly’s volume increased 3.6% for the quarter.
Now I’ll turn to Santa Fe's performance which also benefited from higher pricing and volume.
The company increased third quarter operating income by just over 19% to $98 million.
Santa Fe's nine month operating income came in at $247 million which was also up more than 19% from the adjusted prior year period.
Third quarter operating margin at Santa Fe was 54.5% which was up 3.5 percentage points from the prior year quarter.
For the nine months operating margin was just over 51%.
The company’s Natural American Spirit brand continued to advance in the quarter reporting volume growth of nearly 8%.
Now turning to the balance sheet I would note that Reynolds American ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.3 billion.
So that concludes today’s overview.
We're on track to finish the year in strong form and we're making good progress in bringing our plan to purchase Lorillard to successful close.
We remain focused on returning excellent value to our shareholders and our companies are doing a great job in fulfilling that commitment.
Thank you.
Now we will turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
Good morning Nik.
So I never thought I would be saying this but looked like pricing is almost too high this quarter.
Just I was wondering if you can give any context around that.
And then the second question really is to the degree you can share what kind of information has the SEC asked for regarding the second request? Sure Nike.
It's hard to say that pricing can be too good to be honest with you I think.
We were obviously delighted with Camel and Pall Mall’s performance as well as Natural American Spirit and certainly on the cigarette side pricing performed very very well.
And you saw that industry volumes moderated.
We're looking now at about 3.5% for the year and so that obviously played a role as well.
We are very focused right now rolling out VUSE and of course competing assertively in the moist snuff space which is -- it’s still got quite a lot of promotional activity.
As it relates to the SEC it’s really not a transparent process.
What I will say though is that there are no surprises in the request that we’ve received and we are working diligently to comply with those requests to submit all the information that they have asked for and we remain confident that we will close the transaction in the first half of next year.
And just one more for me.
The volume trajectory in the cigarette category obviously has improved sequentially.
And I am just hoping maybe you can provide some reconciliation with that and kind of all the talk about the e-cigarette and vaping category if you can just help tie those two together? It’s still very early days Nik to talk about what is substitution or otherwise.
But my hypothesis in the wholesale space is that when we saw in the second quarter all of the launches and particularly in c/gas where they took in from quite a number of companies large volumes of inventory of e-cigarettes and tanks and the liquid etcetera.
And so those inventory dollars were diverted to those products and they are now managing their cigarette volumes according to offtake.
So I think it’s early to say exactly what is going on out there but that's what I believe was happening in the second quarter and why we sort of rebounded in the third and it’s a little bit more steady-state.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thanks Nik.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Matt.
Good morning Matt.
Susan I wanted to ask first about the impact of the quota buyout expiration and your level of confidence I guess that we can maintain this level of constructive pricing environment.
I know it's impossible for you to talk prospectively about competitive dynamics but how confident are you that a meaningful portion of that savings can be taken through to the bottom line? And to the extent you would reinvest it how are you weighing the potential options whether it’s promotion VUSE or ZONNIC? Matt we are not really the price leader here.
And so the quota buyout has expired.
We will have a few charges in the fourth quarter as those inventories roll through but we will wait and see what happens to that in terms of what happens with the industry.
We are very clear about meeting our guidance for the full year.
We have extended investments in VUSE.
As we mentioned in the release we will be in 70 000 outlets from next week.
And of course we are preparing and expensing in the fourth quarter for our next large rollout in the New Year.
So we will meet our guidance and we will wait and see how much of that quota buyout money flows through.
Okay.
And I know it’s clearly very very early days here but have seen any evidence of marginal changes in competitive dynamics during October thus far? No not really Matt.
I mean everything -- moist snuff market continues to be very competitive.
Camel is still looking strong I really don't see any disruption.
Okay.
And then just a question on American snuff.
First your commentary on the industry growth shifted slightly here.
I think you now see the industry volumes growing around 3% to 4% versus 4% prior.
And it seems based on your results that some added pricing realization maybe playing a role there but can you talk about any other cross-category factors that might be impacting MST growth? Not really Matt.
I mean it’s early days again smokers and dippers alike are obviously trying alternatives and we need to see where this land.
Grizzly we're very pleased with Grizzly’s performance.
Yes there was a lot of pricing realization.
We had double-digit margin growth and it is over 31 market share.
So those growth rates in terms of it’s -- in this very aggressive environment are -- we’re happy with those results.
The other thing you have to consider is every year the category is getting bigger and so the percentage increase is under pressure I mean 3% of Xs versus 3% of X plus.
So I think we are still seeing growth in that moist category and Grizzly is performing very well.
Okay.
Understood.
And very quick last follow-up on MST.
Just you mentioned that there was some substantial pricing realization during the quarter.
Just trying to reconcile that with your commentary on a highly competitive environment.
Does that pricing realization suggest that you're seeing competitive dynamics relax a little bit or was that just a function of how you chose to manage the business during the quarter? It would be the latter Matt.
We are very conscious of balancing market share and profitability and we chose to compete in this fashion.
Okay.
Thank you Susan.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hey Vivien.
So my first question has to do with Pall Mall can you offer a little bit more in terms of specifics on the timing of the packaging change? I am just curios whether that had an impact on your market share at all given this is the first time we had seen a down market share admittedly you had a restatement but in about two years for that brand so whether that had an impact? I would say it did not have an impact.
That new packaging is really rolling out as we speak in October.
And we have been very conscious with Pall Mall to balance again market share and profitability.
And we are delighted with Pall Mall’s performance its continued conversion rate and it’s contributing significantly to the bottom line so.
Anyway -- and so I look forward to the reaction of consumers to Pall Mall new packaging because the upgrade does give it a more modern look and feel.
And we are continuing to invest in the equity because it truly has a point of difference as a longer-lasting value proposition.
Understood.
The second question is for Tom.
Tom you mentioned pricing in MSA being a key driver for RJRT operating profit growth.
Were there any cost-cutting or productivity benefits as well because OI growth is incredibly robust? I mean it’s just the normal ongoing manner in which we operate the business in terms of efficiencies.
As we’ve said cost-cutting and watching the pennies is kind of in the DNA and it’s been there over the years and now it’s embedded in the organization.
So it’s as much the cost savings are as much bottom-up driven as they are top-down driven.
That's great.
My last one is a housekeeping item.
Can you guys offer what Camel Menthol's share was in the quarter? We can.
Quickly refer it must be 4.3 -- Vivien Morris will get back to you on this specific.
We saw growth in Menthol and non-Menthol with Camel this quarter and it grew 4.10.
Wonderful.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning.
Morning.
Good morning.
I just had two questions for you if I could.
I did want to ask a bit of a follow-up in relation to the category -- the cigarette category overall.
Do you have a good measurement of vapor and e-cigarette sales that you believe that encompasses the whole category? I guess I'm trying to understand was it just less of a drag this quarter? Can you go that far to say that and therefore the category did better? The description I gave previously about the wholesale inventory the buying in the second quarter a lot of people are launching in the space.
The question about having a robust e-cigarette across all channels I would say we don’t.
It’s early days and of course there are lots and lots of vape shops out there and our measuring devices are basically focused on cigars.
So we're watching what happens in cigars but that doesn’t have the whole range of vapor product.
So we are very pleased with the early results of VUSE.
We kicked off the marketing in September.
We will go into another 35 000 outlets next week and we will look to have some more to report at Investor Day.
But it really is early days in this space.
Okay.
And just maybe a follow-up.
I think this is for Tom but in relation to the other division I know there was a lot going on there is there any way you can help with the phasing of investments just to understand how much investments -- if you are increasing your outlets further here in the fourth quarter does that mean a stepped-up sequential investment in VUSE? I know some of that investment was more front-half loaded.
I think related to that the revenues were down sequentially in that business.
There could have been a load.
I'm just curious to understand that element of it as well.
Okay.
Susan as we had in our prepared remarks we are going out to about another three five thousand outlets next week.
Okay.
And we spent some money on merchandising in the third quarter to basically have these merchandisers in store.
We will be doing the same thing in the latter part of December as we get ready for an early next year launch for our next wave.
So the spending is going to be roughly the same as what we saw in the third quarter I believe.
Okay.
And then how about the revenue being down sequentially? Is that a function of just what was shifted in prior to the -- like in 2Q for example? We’ve got a number of small companies that are non-reportable segments that have been down there and some of it’s some of the promotional activity that we did in the third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Sure thing.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Bonnie.
Bonnie.
Hi.
I guess my first question is on your guidance based on what you just said.
I guess -- and the double-digit EPS growth you had in Q3 and with the buyout fee going away next quarter.
I guess I'm surprised you didn't at least take up the low-end of your EPS guidance range.
So could you help us understand that or are you just remaining or trying to remain really cautious with your guidance? Well we reaffirmed that guidance today and we will land there.
To make that range even smaller is always dangerous.
You’ve got a little bit of a spread there.
You’ve got to land the carrier but we will be investing in VUSE as Tom just said in the fourth quarter.
And the quarter is looking well so far but we are very confident that we will hit in that range and we will see how the quota buyout money flows through and what happens in pricing.
But we will come in that range.
Okay.
And then my next question is on VUSE because it has obviously been a very successful rollout so congratulations.
And I would like to understand then how you are going to balance the spending behind the brand driving trial as well as the new product developments.
Given how fast this industry really is evolving I would like to hear where you are at with your next-gen product especially since some of your competitors are already rolling out their new products already.
And you did mention you have more to report at Investor Day so maybe you want to save some of that for then.
That’s a good idea Bonnie.
Just suffice it to say that we are clearly focused on next-generation product and we do have plans.
But our priority is to launch VUSE our digital vapor technology which actually delivers an equivalent 200 same-puffs to smoking consumers.
This is our priority.
And getting them to try this to try VUSE is essential because you have smokers out there who have tried a lot of different e-cigarettes.
They have not found them all satisfying and so we’ve got to get them to try another one.
And so our promotional activities are focused on doing just that as we rollout across the country.
But we will talk more at the Investor Day.
Okay.
And then I just have one final question.
It's a follow-on on your strong pricing in the quarter and given that vapor and e-cigs really have become more and more affordable how realistic do you think it is for the strong combustible cig pricing to continue? And then I would be curious to hear from you if you think this might suggest that this combustible cig industry is primarily losing their price sense of consumers I guess? Are those the ones that are switching to these e-cig and vapor products in your mind? No Bonnie I don't have any evidence that vapor trial on an overall basis is driven by value.
Now it is early days but the combustible cigarette pricing is -- as we thought we had good pricing I mean -- and look at Natural American Spirit I mean… Yeah.
I mean we keep growing that brand and that is at a substantial premium to the generally recognized premium segment.
Yeah.
No I guess I was just thinking then the ones that are staying which obviously a lot of individuals are staying in the combustible cig industry and not switching.
But maybe those are the ones that aren't necessarily looking for affordable products and maybe it's the ones that are looking for in an affordable solution that are switching.
And that could help to explain some of the strong combustible cig pricing you are seeing and generating? Yes.
I just don't have any evidence to that effect.
Okay.
As we’ve said to look at what is the substitution in terms of the e-liquid e-cigarettes versus combustible there is a lot of trial going on out there across the categories.
We’ve always seen people dual use snus and moist or combustible and snus and we see reports of people using combustibles and vapor.
And then you see reports of people switching to vapor.
It’s just too early to have a real handle on it.
No fair enough I appreciate.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Owen.
Apology if this has already been asked but I got cut off.
Just the shared dynamics on snuff and the share decline appears to be driven somewhat by pulling back on the promotion.
I was just wondering can we expect the pricing into the rest of the year at the expense of share or will you look to try to balance this again with some more improved share development in the fourth quarter? Thanks Owen.
We are very mindful of balancing market share and profitability.
It is very competitive in the environment and the promotion activity in moist has really not pulled back.
Now as you said we did achieve pricing.
We achieved very nice operating company growth at ASC but we will continue to balance that.
Grizzly did -- it lost a tenth and it’s actually still up the tenth year-over-year and it is 31 market share.
So it’s important to balance that and there is still quite aggressive promotion in that category.
But we will continue to manage it closely and we continue to invest in the equity behind Grizzly and to look at new innovative product to ensure its continued growth.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CSLA (sic) [CLSA].
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So back on the pricing mix at RJR it was over 6.5%.
I was wondering if you could just give us a sense last quarter you called out about an $11 million headwind from mix and $27 million year-to-date and $57 million for last year.
What was the mix component in this quarter? Did that turn positive because it certainly looks like your premium brands did well and you've got the strong number? How much was mix a contributor to that? Well mix was a contributor because we saw premium growth and Camel volume grew.
So if you have Camel and Natural American Spirit growing and of course the tail brand are shrinking but not at any accelerated rate.
So the mix enhancement certainly was positive.
Right.
And I guess just focusing on RJR for a minute because I'm thinking certainly Natural American Spirit helps but even with Camel strength over the last six quarters you've called out the mix headwinds in your Qs and Ks.
And so just curious if that number has turned positive? Have you seen a sequential improvement into mix on just RJR business as well? I actually don't have those details right in front of me Michael but right at the conclusion of this call we’ll be filing our Q.
And I do believe that information is in the MD&amp;A and I just don’t have it.
Okay.
All right no thanks.
And just on -- sort of related to that on Pall Mall with the packaging upgrade.
Is there any expectation of tweaking the price gaps and giving it this more upgraded premium look or positioning? Would you try to capture some of that in pricing or is its price positioning going to be unchanged? If price positioning is unlikely to change obviously you work with what sort of promotional spending is required to balance market share and profitability.
But we -- the packaging upgrade does not have the objective of raising the price.
It’s the country’s leading value brand by a very wide margin and we will continue to balance its share and profitability.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then on VUSE how much -- to what extend is the production automated and how much if at all does that limit any of your flexibility on innovation? It is automated.
It’s very automated.
In this day and age to be honest with you does it limit your flexibility not necessarily because things like robotic it can also be reengineered to robot something else.
So I think this is not a concern of ours.
Okay that's great.
And you had said last quarter that you had expected investments to continue on VUSE into early next year but that it would be profitable by around the middle of the year.
Is that still your expectation for the pacing? Yes it is.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly one other question back on RJR you mentioned the wholesale inventory shift having some impact on the volume number.
Is that a catch-up from 2Q or did that pull some out of 4Q? Is there a 4Q impact kind of on the reverse of that that we should expect? Well we’ll have to see what inventories are in the fourth quarter.
I think that’s the answer to that.
But I guess I'm just curious about the end of 3Q inventory levels.
Does that suggest that it's heavy or that there is any likely way that that would flow through into the 4Q numbers? We would say that’s it -- it was quite normalized as we exceeded the third quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
It’s Ivan Holman sitting in for Judy.
We were wondering if you could provide a little bit more color on the impact of VUSE on your P&amp;L just in terms of potential revenue gross margin operating profit impact.
And then in terms of the production ramp-up in the timeline with regards to that it seems that you guys are still on allocation.
Could you provide a little bit of color on that as well please? With respect to VUSE we are not going to provide that information because it’s not a reportable segment for SEC purposes.
And so I’m going to decline to do that.
And I’m sorry the second part of your question was would you please repeat that.
Sure.
Could you just give us a little bit of color if possible around the timing of the production ramp-up on VUSE as you are still on allocation? It’s been ramping up all year.
And as we go out to additional retail outlet we build the capacity in order to stay in that launch and then we continue to build it out.
So it’s going to build throughout the balance of the year.
And we are confident that we can supply.
It’s their accounts that as you say where we have some allocation.
It’s important as we rollout to 35 000 outlets that we supply them and so they will be supplied but we're not running short on capacity.
The ramp-up has occurred as we planned.
Thank you very much.
Congratulation on a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my question.
Tom I was hoping that you could just provide a little bit of insight into how you’re generally thinking about your funding needs going forward given some of the market volatility that we had recently? Specific could you talk about how you look at cost of carry all-in-rates and then certainty of execution? Yeah.
I mean we do look at the cost of carry the negative carry.
We look at pre-funding issues and we’re running -- as you can imagine we’re running lots of different scenarios around our current portfolio and the perspective portfolio.
And at this juncture we haven't decided exactly which way we’re going to go.
We still believe we have some time to make that decision.
But I mean you can rest assure that we are looking at lots of different scenarios.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just secondly it looks like the documents that have come out so far indicate that Lorillard as a significant subsidiary would theoretically become a guarantor were the bridge to be executed post closing the merger.
How do you think about the guarantee structure for new ownership? Is that something that would likely be in bonds that are newly issued? And then if that's the case how do you think about the remaining bonds that are already outstanding and the differences in the guarantee structure there? Thank you.
We’ve been looking at the Lorillard bonds specifically and the guarantees around those.
And going back to what I said earlier we are working through those things.
We’re looking at different scenarios and that how we would structure all those stuff once we consummate the deal.
And beyond that I’m not going to comment.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from Sachin Shah from Albert Fried.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good quarter congratulations.
Thank you.
Just had a question as a follow-up in regards to the FTC.
Because you have been forthcoming with the divestment package just curious to find out if there have been any comments or any conversations with them in regards to the divestment package? As you guys are bundling the information for the secondary request? That's the first question.
The second question is last week there's been some volatility obviously in the stock market but the spread based on the merger terms have been essentially getting wider.
So I know that you have been pretty confident and your comments have discussed that in detail in the confidence of closing the deal in the first quarter of next year.
Is there anything that we are missing as far as states local governments aside from the FTC any issues that you see that could be a problem for the deal not closing as expected in light of the divestment package because the spread -- the merger terms are indicating something else? Yes.
Thank you.
I would say there is -- I’ve said before but there is nothing that has happened in this review process that has surprised us.
And of course there have been discussions with the FTC about the divestiture package and they will meet with all of the parties involved.
And the third-parties like the wholesalers like the retailers they are doing their job investigating the impact on competition and that’s what they're supposed to do.
So there is no reason that the spread should be widening.
If you say is anything missing obviously some investors are missing confidence that it will close.
We continue to believe that we will close this transaction and that the divestiture package is very robust.
And that that will ensure that there continues to be a continuing highly competitive marketplace.
And nothing really will happen between now and the time that we know the answer.
So I think people have -- their tolerance for time must be affecting their investment theses.
But we always said this would take 9 to 12 months to close and we’re on that path.
Okay.
Just one follow-up question.
I know you just filed the proxy last Friday so congratulations on that but any timing for the shareholder vote? Is it possible that we could see that? I know it may be a little tight this year or is that going to be something that you are kind of shooting for early next year 2015? Well we really have to wait and see because as you know this S4 process you submit the S4 to the SEC and then they will come back with question or comment and then you resend it to them.
And they really have to sort of acknowledge and authorize before you can send it out.
And so then you have to send it out 20-days before you’re going to have the shareholder vote.
So we just need to see that unfold.
But it will certainly be -- it is most likely to be in the first quarter.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from James Bushnell from Exane.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you very much for taking my call.
My question was on your divestiture package given the conditions you have there whether you could tell us what the current share is of Winston Kool and Salem in aggregate in the last quarter please? We don’t report those brand market shares so I would just decline to comment.
But they continued to perform as expected.
Okay.
I understand.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any further questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.