Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Reynolds American Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we will review Reynolds American's results for the fourth quarter and full year as well as our outlook for 2015.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Tom Adams our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American reported another great quarter overall in what can only be characterized as a fantastic year.
With our continued earnings growth momentum and excellent returns to our shareholders in 2014 I'm hopeful that our investors are as pleased as we are with the year's results.
Our companies made substantial progress in many areas but I'd like to call out a few of our key achievements over the past year.
Our companies strengthened the profitability of their core cigarette and moist snuff operations through smart business strategies and execution and a tight focus on efficiency and productivity.
And they also continued to invest in the equity of their powerful key brands growing market share and profitability.
The marketplace is quite competitive so that kind of brand performance is a tribute to our companies' highly engaged and expert consumer and trade marketing teams.
And in keeping with our commitment to our investors our companies' outstanding performance yielded excellent value for shareholders.
Total shareholder return which included a dividend increase of more than 6% was just under 35% for the year again significantly outpacing the S&amp;P 500.
Before I get into more details on the quarter I want to give you a quick update on our proposed acquisition of Lorillard and the divestiture of certain assets to Imperial.
As you know the shareholders of RAI Lorillard and Imperial Tobacco approved the transaction last month which was an important milestone.
And RAI has substantially complied with the second request for information from the Federal Trade Commission.
We do not know the exact timing of an FTC decision and I can only reiterate that the process continues to proceed as expected.
And I remain confident that the deal will close in the first half of this year.
Before I turn to a review of our companies' performance let me reemphasize the important role that innovation plays as a driving force in our strategy to transform the tobacco industry.
Our companies are committed to providing superior products to meet emerging consumer preferences.
In 2014 VUSE digital vapor products were rolled out across the country after a highly successful performance in Colorado and Utah.
VUSE is now available in about 100 000 outlets primarily in convenience gas.
And VUSE is already the top-selling e-cigarette in that channel overall.
VUSE is truly satisfying.
It's simple and it's convenient to use.
And importantly VUSE is earning the trust and credibility of skeptical vapor users because of its proprietary digital vapor technology and its American assembly.
These are meaningful points of difference for adult consumers and providing them with distinctive products like VUSE is key to gaining a competitive advantage.
To build on the brand's market-leading position and growth momentum VUSE added 4 more styles to the Colorado and Utah markets in mid-December: rich mint crema chai and mint.
Adult smokers and vapor users have shown a high degree of interest in these styles.
And although it's still early days we expect these styles will broaden VUSE's appeal to adult smokers and vapors.
Another innovation case in point is Niconovum Zonnic NRT Gum which began its national expansion late in the third quarter following a positive reception from retailers and consumers in Iowa.
Zonnic also added fruit and cinnamon flavors to its portfolio last year.
This rollout is going very well and the brand is now in about 18 000 outlets primarily convenience gas as well as some drug and grocery chains.
Finally on the subject of innovative products in the fourth quarter we announced expansion plans for Revo which uses proprietary heat-not-burn technology developed by R.J.
Reynolds.
R.J.
Reynolds' expansion of Revo in Wisconsin is now underway.
And we believe that evolving consumer expectations and heightened interest in innovative tobacco products will draw attention to Revo.
Now let's turn to the discussion of our quarterly results at our operating companies.
At R.J.
Reynolds fourth quarter earnings and operating margins were substantially higher on increased pricing and the favorable impact from the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout.
And I'm pleased to say that the moderation in cigarette volume decline continued in the fourth quarter as lower gas prices and an improved employment rate benefited discretionary consumer spending.
R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette market share for the year was quite stable down 0.1 percentage point from the prior year at 26.5%.
R.J.
Reynolds' growth brands Camel and Pall Mall continued to perform well and now make up almost 3/4 of the company's total cigarette market share.
The combined fourth quarter share for these 2 brands grew 0.2 percentage point to 19.7%.
Camel's quarterly market share was 10.3% which was up by 0.3 percentage point which was a fitting end to a great year for Camel an iconic and innovative brand and the company's largest and fastest-growing brand.
Next month Camel will launch the Premium Camel White style in 21 Western states.
Available in mellow and menthol these styles offer an inset filter that provides adult smokers with a unique look and a smooth smoking experience.
It puts a new unique twist on Camel's rich bold flavor.
R.J.
Reynolds continues to balance Pall Mall's market share and profitability in the value category.
And in that context the brand has done very well and remains by far the nation's #1 value brand.
Pall Mall's full year market share of 9.4% was in line with the prior year period.
Pall Mall has a distinct and appealing brand and product proposition.
And the company is investing in consumer-driven opportunities to expand awareness of Pall Mall's unique brand proposition genuinely more.
As you know Pall Mall's packaging was upgraded in the fourth quarter.
All of our companies stay on top of consumer insights and continue to evolve their brands so that they stay fresh contemporary and exciting to adult smokers.
Turning to American Snuff.
The moist snuff market remains highly competitive and the company's bottom line was impacted in the fourth quarter by increased promotional spending and a modest decline in volume.
This resulted in slightly lower earnings while the operating margin remained very strong.
American Snuff continues to strike a balance between market share and profit growth for its flagship Grizzly brand.
As a result Grizzly's fourth quarter market share of 31.3% was in line with the prior year quarter and up 0.5 percentage point for the full year.
American Snuff continues to invest in equity-building initiatives to further enhance the brand.
For example Grizzly Dark Wintergreen is being expanded nationally and has received very positive results in Indiana.
Dark Wintergreen offers a differentiated darker and richer wintergreen flavor.
At Santa Fe performance was very strong once again.
Higher pricing in the fourth quarter coupled with higher volume delivered operating income growth of almost 25%.
Santa Fe's super premium Natural American Spirit brand added another 0.3 percentage point in market share to 1.8% making it 1 of the top 10 cigarette brands in the U.S.
Natural American Spirit's packaging was also recently upgraded contributing to the growth of its additive-free tobacco styles including those made with organic tobacco.
I hope you'll agree with me that RAI and its operating companies posted a successful fourth quarter and a very strong full year.
And before I hand the call to Tom for more details I'd like to say a few words about his upcoming retirement.
This will be Tom's last earnings call.
He will be succeeded as CFO by Andrew Gilchrist next month.
Tom will stay on as Executive Vice President until later this year to ensure a smooth transition and to provide oversight on completion of the transaction and the initial integration process.
Tom you have been an outstanding member of the RAI leadership team and I thank you for your invaluable contributions to the company's success.
And now I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
I must say it's been a great experience over the years and I'm proud of the results we have achieved.
It's good to know that I'll be leaving the business in strong hands.
I would like to thank everyone on the call for your interest over these many years and I wish you well.
Now let's take a look at the financials.
RAI finished the year in strong form increasing fourth quarter adjusted EPS by 13% from the prior year quarter to $0.87.
Once again higher pricing was a significant factor and the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout had a positive impact as well.
These major items more than offset lower cigarette volumes and the investments behind VUSE and our company's key brands.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.51 per share pensions and postretirement mark-to-market adjustments which were mainly due to updated actuarial assumptions on mortality rates; a charge of $0.06 per share for transaction-related and financing costs; and a charge of $0.02 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits.
On a reported basis fourth quarter EPS was $0.28 down just over 48% from the prior year quarter.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $3.42 up 7.2% from the prior year period.
This also excludes the items I just mentioned as well as the onetime benefit from the NPM Partial Settlement a gain on discontinued operations and charges for implementation costs.
On a reported basis full year EPS was $2.75.
RAI again improved adjusted operating margin.
For the fourth quarter margin was up by 1.2 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 36.6%.
And for the full year it was up 0.1 point at 36.7%.
Now I'll turn to our operating company's performance where I'll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds had another strong run in the fourth quarter with adjusted operating income increasing by almost 14% to $676 million.
And for the full year the company's adjusted operating income was up by more than 8% at $2.7 billion.
The company's adjusted operating margin continued to widen in the quarter increasing 4.4 percentage points to 40.5% and that brought the full year to 39.6%.
As Susan mentioned the decline in industry cigarette volumes continued to moderate.
R.J.
Reynolds' fourth quarter cigarette shipments declined 4.9% from the prior year quarter while industry volume was down about 2%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.5 billion units at the end of the fourth quarter down about 700 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 200 million.
At American Snuff fourth quarter adjusted operating income of $113 million was down 3.2% from the prior year quarter.
But for the full year it rose by almost 4% to $442 million.
The company's operating margin remained strong at 56.4% for the year.
As we predicted in our last call higher promotional support levels continued in the fourth quarter and because of the highly competitive moist snuff market American Snuff saw a 1% decline in volume.
Moist snuff industry volume was up about 1% in the quarter.
American Snuff's flagship Grizzly brand delivered volume growth of 3.5% for the year.
Now I'll turn to Santa Fe where higher pricing and volume drove the bottom line higher.
The company increased fourth quarter operating income by more than 24% to $90 million.
That brought full year operating income to $337 million which was up 20.5%.
Santa Fe's fourth quarter operating margin rose 2.6 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 51.7% bringing the full year to 51.2%.
Natural American Spirit's market share gain of 0.3% that Susan mentioned was on volume growth of 14%.
Now I'll turn to some other items before opening up the Q&amp;A session.
As we reported previously Reynolds American expanded its revolving credit facility from $1.3 billion to $2 billion in the quarter and the company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1 billion.
Our pension plans remain well funded on a PBO basis.
Although no additional funding is required this year I would note that we plan to add just over $100 million to the pension plans.
With our companies expected to continue their growth momentum this year RAI is issuing 2015 adjusted earnings guidance in the range of $3.65 to $3.80 per share.
I would note that this guidance excludes any impact from the completion of our proposed transaction but it does reflect continued investment on VUSE as well as initiatives to build the equity of our operating company's key brands.
Thank you all.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get in the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Hayes of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two from me.
Firstly on Pall Mall.
Obviously you mentioned the packaging relaunching the course [ph] but market share was still down 20 basis points I think.
I just wonder if you can talk about the timing of that launch and whether there was some disruption of any sort? And whether you're happy with the launch? Was there anything that you expect to improve on that relaunch into the first quarter? And then secondly for me on the smokeless category.
It looks like it's slowing pretty rapidly I guess from 4.5% -- 4% to 5% last year -- in '13 to 3% to 4% I think you said in the third quarter so category about 1% growth in the fourth.
I guess with the gasoline prices I always understood that was a category that did pretty well [indiscernible] of that relationship.
I'm just wondering whether you can talk about why that slowdown in the category is happening? Or again whether you feel that that's something which will pick up through 2015? First the question about Pall Mall.
We're very pleased with Pall Mall's performance at 9.4% market share.
We are very focused on balancing Pall Mall's market share and profitability and this is a very competitive environment.
But the packaging upgrade didn't cause disruption.
So we would continue to see Pall Mall playing that role in our value portfolio but we are actually very happy with that performance.
Secondly on the smokeless side I think there's been discussion about the slowdown in growth of the overall category and we're pleased with Grizzly's performance.
It's a very competitive environment in the smokeless arena.
Grizzly over the year picked up half a share point while it was basically flat quarter-over-quarter.
The slowdown in the sector there are some thoughts about that in the context of -- as you know there are about 8 million dippers and they -- about 5 million of those are dual users.
So in the fourth quarter did they switch to cigarettes? I think we'll have to see how this plays out.
We are confident that the category will continue to grow but we're not sure if it's going to be in the 2% or the 3% to 4% growth this year.
But again Grizzly's performed very well and we will continue to heavily compete in that space.
Research Division</strong> So just quickly coming back on the Pall Mall.
The timing of that packaging launch was that happening through the quarter say from the beginning of the quarter and is now done? Or was it a late initiative sort of later in the year and therefore may make an impact in the first quarter '15? We were shipping that in October.
So it should be pretty well through the pipeline and we'll continue to monitor that offtake.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the outlook for earnings growth's clearly incredibly robust for 2015 obvious benefit from the tobacco buyout expense.
But as I think about the magnitude of the range it's roughly comparable to the range you guys initially offered for 2014.
So I was just hoping you could comment a little bit on kind of the wide range given that you know you're going to get this benefit from the tobacco buyout expense? Vivien it's Tom.
We look at this every year and we like -- we kind of like the wider range.
It encompasses -- I mean it's early in the year.
We're concerned -- the competitive environment is as it has been very intense in all segments that we're operating in.
So we like the wider range to provide us flexibility.
LLC Research Division</strong> That seems perfectly reasonable.
And then on the Revo launch I understand it's kind of early days.
Where is that product getting shelf placement? And what brands would it be substituting in the stores that you're rolling it out in? Vivien this is Susan.
We are in the process of launching it and the specifics of exactly what shelf space exchange I'm not certain but we're encouraged by Revo.
I think we've done a lot of consumer testing.
We talked about it at Investor Day.
As consumers look for more innovative products and our focus on innovation and transforming the industry we believe that there will be interest in Revo as people understand vapor and they understand combustibles.
And Revo with the proprietary RJRT technology is somewhere in between all of that.
So we will keep you posted but it is too early.
It's -- we're 4 weeks into the shipping or something like that.
But we'll certainly keep you posted as it unfolds.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you if I could on if you look at the cigarette category which has improved pretty dramatically in the second half of the year do you have a good outlook you expect for 2015? Could we see this at least with the comps the first half of '15 be like the second half of '14 if you will? Chris I'll tell you.
We are still looking at it in this 3% or 4% decline range as we have in the past years.
You'll remember that we talked in '14 that part of that in the first 6 months could've simply been particularly convenience gas taking in lots of new vapor products.
And it was a restricted inventory investment as opposed to actual offtake.
And obviously the vapor space is continually evolving and we will continue to report on that as we see it.
But our opinion is that the underlying combustible decline will stay consistent.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question for you I guess really related to VUSE or -- and then all other division.
I'm just trying to get a better sense of like the degree of investment you expect there this year.
Do you expect it to be comparable to the investment you made in '14? Or is that unrealistic given you've already launched the product? Or do you've more products potentially in the hopper that could force you to invest equally heavily in the coming year? Chris it's Tom.
From a financial perspective it will not be as large as it was in 2014.
And we're -- probably really don't want to comment on launching innovative products in this space right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you -- the phasing of the new VUSE flavors is that happening now? Did that happen in the first quarter? Or is it that happened throughout the year? I'm just curious how quickly that can build.
We launched in December in Colorado and Utah and we are watching that very closely.
And then we will determine and certainly advise when we decide to extend that.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask more about the pricing and volume balance during the quarter.
Now obviously 8% pricing excluding the contract manufacturing is a very strong number so I don't want to -- not trying to nitpick on the number.
But we also saw volume declines accelerate slightly while the industry trend was going the other direction.
So how do you think about the balance between those 2 factors? And whether we're sort of in the optimal place when you're realizing 7% to 8% price mix but also trying to protect share on a couple of nonsupport brands and maintain the momentum of your growth brands? Matt I would say this all sort of varies quarter-to-quarter.
We are pleased with the way we are balancing market share growth on our drive brands investment in new innovation and profitability.
So I would say obviously the quota buyout rolling off in the fourth quarter was great but we feel like we are in a good mix.
And you can see from the guidance this year we are guiding from 7.1 to 11.1.
And so we continue to be confident that we can get that balance right while focusing on driving our premium brand growth on our focus brands.
Research Division</strong> And just one other question on RJR.
For the quarter again you had strong pricing-driven revenue growth which resulted in 15 -- close to 15% operating profit growth but the bottom line was still constrained I think similar to what one of your peers reported a week or 2 ago by a pretty large step-up in per pack costs year-on-year.
Can you just speak to that year-on-year cost dynamic? And whether that's just quarterly phasing or something we should expect to see continue going forward based on reinvestment initiatives you might have in place during the sort of post-expiration of the quota buyout? Matt we really look at this as timing fluctuation.
And I wouldn't project all of that forward on any meaningful basis.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question on your process with the FTC.
I guess I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on the possibility that the FTC does approve the deal with Lorillard but with some modifications.
I've heard several questions or concerns related to your EDLP program from retailers so wondering how important this option is for Newport? And how concerned you would be if Newport won't be allowed to be added to your EDLP program right away? Essentially would you be willing to move forward to deal with some restrictions? Just trying to get your sense of that.
Bonnie really I don't have much more to add than I said in my prepared remarks.
We are continuing to work with the FTC.
The process is not a transparent one.
We continue to be confident that it will close in the first half.
And how that will all unfold we will keep you posted when that -- when we know and it becomes public but I have no real other comment to make.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then I have a question on Santa Fe.
Obviously the brand continues to perform extremely well.
However a couple of other brands are more intensely targeting the super premium organic space.
So I just wanted to get your thoughts on how increased competition could impact Santa Fe? And what you're seeing in this category? And then given NAS's positioning how confident are you that the brand will continue to grow at double-digit rates? Thanks Bonnie.
It picked up 0.3 share point this year at 1.8% market share.
It's one of the top 10 brands in the U.S.
And we continue to see a lot of runway because as you know it's not really 1.8% market share anywhere.
It has very strong market share in growing urban markets and we continue to see that expanding.
As we said at Investor Day we're adding some sales force members to that team and we continue to see distribution and offtake growth.
And it grew in 49 out of 50 states last year.
So I really don't see that slowing down.
To your point that there's other competition in the space I think NAS is uniquely positioned.
I think that the packaging upgrade will help us continue that momentum and I continue to be confident.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe 1 final quick question.
I believe you conducted a clinical trial on vapor emission that was expected to be completed by December.
Has this study concluded? And then could you share some of the findings from that study with us? Bonnie I'm not in a position to discuss that.
And we will get some more information for you when that's available.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Back on Revo is national expansion sort of a foregone conclusion? Or what are you looking for in Wisconsin that would determine how you move ahead? Well this is -- we're going into Wisconsin to see how consumers react to this new branding.
And obviously as consumers are more aware of innovative products and more understanding of vapor versus combustibles we're looking to see how they respond to Revo.
And we will determine when that would continue to roll out as we watch that.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any consumer communication restrictions? And what kind of things are you doing to make people aware of the brand? Certainly it's important with a brand like Revo to generate trial because people have to see if they like this kind of technology.
And it smokes very different from a combustible and it smokes very different from an e-cig-alike vapor product.
So we -- obviously the restrictions if you will -- Revo falls under the combustible advertising restriction.
But we'll be using our consumer engagement force to explain the proposition to consumers and generate some trial.
Research Division</strong> And because it falls under combustible you're not also allowed to modify the product any either right? Is that -- it needs to stay the same? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on vapor you had said previously that you expect it to be profitable by 3Q of this year.
Is that still on track for that? Yes we believe it is.
Research Division</strong> And would that be profitable for the full year? Or just in the back half? Probably just in the back half.
I think Michael we watched this space evolve.
And we're looking at VUSE and we continue -- VUSE is the largest selling vapor e-cig-alike in convenience gas across the country.
And it's very important for us to continue to generate trial because our digital vapor technology truly is a point of difference.
And we are American-made as I said in my prepared remarks.
So generating trial in VUSE will give us the conversion and -- so we will market that to the right effect.
Research Division</strong> And some of your competitors have come out with products that are more vaporizer-like but with a closed tank.
And I know you've been outspoken about the risks of open tanks but would you pursue something with VUSE that might be a little more vaporizer-esque but with the same closed tank capability? I'm not going to talk about any future innovations but suffice it to say that it is clearly part of our strategy to transform the tobacco industry to become the vapor authority.
Our next question comes from James Bushnell of Exane.
Research Division</strong> I had 3 questions too which have been answered.
So the third one which was a smaller question was just to come back on all other line which in Q4 was again at a reasonably high level.
I just wonder if you could give us a flavor as to how much of that uptick year-on-year is investments in VUSE versus expense elsewhere? Would that be launched also for Revo Zonnic or other things that are going on? It's primarily VUSE.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I had 1 quick sort of administrative question and that was just whether you had any borrowings outstanding under your revolver at quarter end? And then secondly Tom is as you guys are thinking about the funding for the Lorillard transaction do you have any updates there given where we are in terms of the regulatory process? And whether we should still expect $500 million in facility borrowings to help fund that split? Okay.
With respect to the at year end or quarter end we didn't -- we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
And with respect to the transaction we would expect when it closes that we would use a portion of the revolving credit facility to fund it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Sachin Shah of Albert Fried.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to understand because you're in substantial compliance with FTC is it just kind of a waiting game that we're waiting for right now in regards...
I'm sorry Sachin you're fading out.
We can't hear your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes so -- can you hear me now? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just want to understand in regards to the FTC because you're in substantial compliance are you just waiting for them to get back to you? Is that where we kind of are? Well we continue to -- we are working with the FTC as I said to you the process is not transparent and so we continue to believe we will close in that -- in the first half of this year.
And of course we will be forthcoming as soon as we know something.
LLC Research Division</strong> So in regards to communicating even though you're in substantial compliance the clock sometimes -- if there is a clock 30 days or more that you haven't had that agreement or a timing agreement with them thus far and so you're in dialogue in the interim while that substantial compliance has been met? Sure we're in dialogue and the clock still ticking.
And we'll get back to you when we have more information.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 1 last question in regards to all of this.
I think when you reported your third quarter results the merger spread was double it -- what it was now little over $8 and now it's $4 just a little bit above $4 and the fact that it is still $4 still raises some uncertainty about that and just was curious to find out how you felt about that in light of the fact that you have all these things that you presented to the FTC and being in substantial compliance? Well I think Sachin what the spread is and how all that works is all about investor sentiment.
And as we've always discussed we're very pleased the shareholders had a resounding vote and we still have the next step of the FTC.
And obviously there are investors who are still betting for and against that.
But we continue to be confident and we will -- once the first half is past and we've confidently closed then we'll see how the investors feel about the stock price.
Our next question is a follow-up from David Hayes of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I know [indiscernible] before but I just wonder whether you can add any detail to the 4.9% market share sort of level in terms of the brands that you're selling to Imperial and then obviously the Doral brand impact of that.
I wonder if you can give us an update as to where that market share sits relative to that level today? And then secondly just on Revo 2 I just wonder whether you can update us on where you are with the potential launch of that with a partner? Again I think you said previously maybe BAT that wasn't actually firmed up.
I just wonder whether you can talk about that Revo 2 development in other markets? Is that a possibility for next year? Is that something that we can expect to see in the numbers in terms of the development of that product as well? David this is Tom.
I'll take the first part of that.
We're above the 4.9% that's in the agreement for Winston-Salem and Kool at this point.
And on the second question we are in continued dialogue with British American Tobacco to look at opportunities for commercialization and research and technology development and commercialization of those innovations.
So we will obviously keep you posted as we come to whatever agreements we make.
But at this stage certainly there are opportunities we do see international monetization of our innovative technology as a future revenue stream.
But there's nothing concrete in 2015 as we sit today.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> David had 2 very good questions which were just like mine so I'm all good.
I appreciate your time.
Thank you.
And at this time I'm not showing any further questions.
So I'd like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.