Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Now I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we will review Reynolds American’s results for the first quarter and our outlook for the full year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As you read in today’s report Reynolds American got off to an excellent start this year with sharply higher earnings and operating margin in the first quarter.
I would like to highlight the main reason for these strong results.
First is the continued strong performance by our operating companies and continued momentum in their powerful key brands.
All of our reportable business segments again increased profits and operating margins and they remained focus on strategic initiatives to enhance their key brands in the competitive marketplace.
Our company’s results also benefited from higher pricing across the board and the end of the federal tobacco quota buyout late last year.
In addition cigarette volumes performed better than the historical decline rate.
The decline in shipments continue to moderate and we believe this is largely driven by improved economic factors including lower gas prices as well as favorable comparison with the prior year quarter.
One other development that favorably impacted our bottom line in the first quarter was the one-time benefit from the 2003 NPM adjustment claims and Andrew will give you more details on that shortly.
In addition I would note R.J.
Reynolds announcement in February that the company together with Philip Morris and Lorillard have negotiated an agreement to result hundreds of Engle progeny lawsuits that are pending and not yet tried in the Florida federal court.
This resolution was a unique opportunity to essentially close out the federal Engle progeny docket although the agreement still has to be finalized.
As part of our transforming tobacco strategy our companies also made additional progress in positioning their innovative product platforms for long-term growth.
As you know RJR Vapor VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette completed its national expansion in the first quarter and the brand is now available in about 100 000 outlets mainly convenience and gas stores.
VUSE a highly distinctive and superior vapor product continues to perform well and the band retains the number one position in convenience gas outlet.
VUSE added four more styles in Colorado and Utah late last year and as we expected these are attracting the interest of adult smokers in vapors.
Good progress is also being made with the national expansion of Niconovum’s Zonnic NRT Gum and that brand will be in about 27 000 outlets primarily convenience gas by the end of this month.
In February R.J.
Reynolds expanded Revo heat-not-burn cigarettes in Wisconsin.
Revo which uses proprietary technology is in nearly all contracted retail outlets in that state.
Revo is getting strong support from point-of-sale signage and engagement with age verified adult tobacco consumers as well as direct mail and email for those adults who have registered to receive such information.
Revo is still in very early days and the focus remains on building brand awareness.
So more to come on this as we get more data.
So that’s a quick update on our companies’ most recent achievement.
I would like to address one final item before we discuss our companies’ performance in more detail.
I know that you are all waiting for more news on our proposed acquisition of Lorillard but all I can say at this point is that the regulatory approval process is still underway and we remain confident that the transaction will close by the middle of this year.
So low let’s turn to the discussion of our quarterly results at our operating companies.
R.J.
Reynolds had a very strong quarter with earnings and margins substantially higher on increased cigarette pricing and the favorable impact from the completion of the federal tobacco quota buyout.
As I referenced earlier the company’s cigarette volume decline continue to moderate in the first quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette market share was down 0.5 percentage point from the prior year quarter at just over 26%.
R.J.
Reynolds growth brands Camel and Pall Mall reflected solid market performance and now make up about three quarters of the company’s total cigarette market share.
Their combined first quarter share of 19.4% was in line with the prior year quarter.
Camel’s market share increased from the prior year quarter to 10.1% and Camel continues to enhance its brand equity with the expansion of Camel White to 21 Western states in late March.
This style available in mellow and menthol offers an inset filter and premium tobacco that provide adult smokers with the perfect draw and smooth taste.
Pall Mall the nation’s number one value brand continue to demonstrate solid performance in that category and first quarter market share of 9.3% was down only slightly.
Pall Mall is a longer lasting high quality product at an affordable price a true value proposition and the focus remains on building awareness and trials.
Now turning to American Snuff which also generated strong financial performance in the first quarter the moist snuff market continues to be highly competitive but the company increased its operating income by double digits and American Snuff operating margin remained very strong.
The company’s overall moist snuff market share declined 0.2 percentage point to 34.5% and the market share for its flagship Grizzly brand was in line with the prior year quarter at 31.6%.
In late March Grizzly expanded its Dark Wintergreen style nationally a bold product offering that has a differentiated and richer flavor.
Grizzly has led the growing Wintergreen segment since 2008 and Grizzly Dark Wintergreen is expected to continue the brands momentum and further solidify its leadership position.
I think it’s fair to say that the star of the quarter was Santa Fe where both financial and marketplace performance was outstanding.
The company grew operating income by more than 40% and that of course was driven by higher pricing and volume.
Santa Fe’s super-premium brand Natural American Spirit continues to go from strength to strength and it increased first quarter market share by three-tenths of a percentage point to 1.8%.
To put that in perspective the NAS share increase was the biggest quarter-on-quarter increase in its history and the brand shipped 1 billion cigarettes in the first quarter.
Santa Fe is doing a really great job with Natural American Spirit it’s expanding consumer franchise and the appeal of the brands distinctive additive free tobacco style including those made with organic tobacco continue to deliver impressive results.
So that’s a wrap of a very successful quarter and I’m delighted with the progress our companies are making on all fronts.
So now I’ll turn the call over the Andrew and welcome Andrew to your first earnings call.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI began the year in strong form.
The quarter benefited from higher pricing and the completion of the federal tobacco-quota buyout and we increased adjusted EPS by almost 19.5% from the prior year quarter to $0.86.
These adjusted results exclude a one-time benefit of $0.08 per share from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim.
Pennsylvania and Missouri are no longer challenging the findings of non-diligence entered against them by the arbitration panel in connection with this claim.
So part of the potential recovery from these two states is now certain and can be estimated.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds expenses for the MSA were reduced by $70 million for the first quarter.
Our adjusted results also exclude a charge of $0.06 per share for transaction related and financing costs in connection with the proposed Lorillard acquisition $0.02 per share for tobacco related and other litigation and the charge of $0.13 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits including the proposed settlement for the federal cases.
On a reported basis first quarter EPS was $0.73 up 9% from the prior year quarter.
RAI’s adjusted operating margin continues to strengthen coming in at 37.2% for the quarter.
Now I’ll turn to our operating company’s performance where I’ll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted result.
R.J.
Reynolds performed extremely well with adjusted operating income increasing by more than 16% to $645 million.
The company also increased adjusted operating margin by 4.6 percentage points to just over 40%.
As Susan said the company’s cigarette volumes continue to moderate and were down 2.4% from the prior year quarter.
Industry volume was up about 0.5%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 6.5 billion units at the end of the first quarter down about 200 million from the prior year quarter while R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately 1.6 billion were down about 100 million.
Now I’ll turn to American Snuff.
Higher pricing and volume benefitted first quarter operating income which increased 16.7% to $118 million.
The company’s operating margin rose 3.8% to 58.9%.
In additional to remaining very competitive the moist-snuff industry is clearly seeing an impact from the shift by adult tobacco consumers between various tobacco and vapor products.
Industry volume was up just over 1% in the quarter and American Snuff’s volume increased 0.5%.
As Susan said Santa Fe continued to build on its strength and delivered outstanding results in the first quarter.
The company increased operating income by nearly 42% to $92 million and operating margin grew by 5.6 percentage points to almost 54%.
These results were driven by the very strong performance of Natural American Spirit which delivered volume growth of more than 23%.
Now there are a couple of other items I want to mention before I open up the Q&amp;A session.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $1.6 billion and I also want to confirm that R.J.
Reynolds made its MSA payment of $1.4 billion in April which included $429 million that was paid into the NPM disputed funds account.
Lastly our outlook as you can see from today’s report RAI and its operating companies had a great first quarter and we are reaffirming our full year adjusted earnings guidance in the range of $3.65 to $3.80 per share.
Please not that this guidance excludes any impact from our proposed transactions and we will reassess our guidance after the proposed transactions close.
Thank you all.
Now we will turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Owen Bennett from Nomura.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning guys and couple of questions please and firstly and obviously a very strong quarter in terms of cigarette industry volumes I was just wondering can you give any outlook for how you see industry volumes now trending for the rest of the year? And secondly you said previously you hope for the e-vapor business to become accretive by the second half.
Does this still stand? It’s just the loss in the first quarter seemed it was a bit worse than what we had expected or is this just a case of much of the investment was front end loaded this year.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Owen.
Sure industry volumes were strong in the first quarter if you think about that and look back to last year when we saw what everybody was worried about was it was going away very quickly and we talked about the inventory dollars being spent on vapor and vapor launches in the c/gas space and that that was taking away from inventory dollars in cigarettes.
And I think that is proving to be true.
So as the year unfolds of course the volume will continue to be at this pace.
We’ve always talked about a 3% to 4% decline sort of a long term measure.
Our guess is that this year it will be on the low end of that call it 283 3Q something like that we will continue to watch and see how that unfolds but it was a very strong first quarter in volume term.
The other thing I would say about that in the context of the consumer you know while there are technical inventory reasons we also saw good premium mix in the first quarter with lower gas prices and so we feel that that has also impacted the volume result.
When we think about vapor I think it’s important to say that it is as you look at the dynamics of the segment at the moment it looks like it’s kind of flattened out.
Now one of the reasons for that is we are laughing at again huge numbers of launches and of course there has been a lot of consumer trial and consumers are perhaps waiting for the next innovation and we are still looking to get brand awareness in trial on views.
Views just went really achieved national distribution in the first quarter of this year and so we certainly are spending to increase brand awareness in trial.
As you know we believe it’s a superior vapor product that delivers real satisfaction and therefore we continue to invest in that trial.
So certainly as you said in the first quarter it looks like we spent a fair amount of money and we did because we are really driving for trial and we would reiterate that in the medium term we certainly expect to have very strong margins and profitability on views whether that exactly occurs in the second half remains to be seen because this is still a very volatile and dynamic category.
Thanks Owen.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open please go ahead.
If you have your phone on mute can you un-mute your phone please.
Sorry about that.
Hey Nick.
Hey Andrew I was wondering if you can provide a little bit of context on legal cost just trying to get a sense of how much of your legal budget is being spent on Engle that’s number one and then second for Susan if you can just give us some context around Santa Fe I mean is this the level of volume growth something you should be expecting for the rest of the year or is this a pipeline sale for the new packaging that was kind of part of the quarter any context around those two questions would be helpful.
Thank you.
Yeah thanks Nik.
This is Andrew.
Just a follow-up a significant portion of our legal budget at this point is being spent on Engle.
It is something that we obviously are looking at on a regular basis to see what does the effect of the proposed settlement on the federal side how does that play up for the rest of the year but a significant portion obviously we got a number of trial this year we’re expecting 30 to 45 trials and that is obviously taking up a great portion of the legal budget.
Nik this is Susan on Santa Fe I think it really was the star of the quarter.
When you look at that volume growth and that profitability growth we continue to see the momentum we saw in the second half last year.
If you - Santa Fe as we go through this year I think that the momentum will continue but there are harder comparison in the second half than we have in the first half.
Now having said that the biggest market share jump we’ve ever seen on a quarter over quarter basis you know 1.6 billion in the quarter in what’s usually a relatively light quarter.
We are very enthusiastic about that and I think Santa Fe is benefitting obviously from us continuing to invest in the equity as well as the distribution of the brands and from the economics for the consumer in terms of the premium mix.
So we are obviously very keen on Natural American Spirit and we believe that it will continue to go from strength to strength.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
I just wanted a few question first if I could and to follow a bit on the industry volumes comments there before I think you said Andrew that inventories were down in the quarter I think you also mentioned at one point that this is a bit of an easier comp on the first quarter so I’m not sure if you gave a number Susan if you did I missed it obviously we have some momentum carrying over from the second half of last year are we looking at industry volumes declining more like 3% sort of 4% like towards the lower end of your range or have you given a better estimate where you stuck for the year at this point.
Thanks Chris.
Yeah I did say that.
I did say that we believe that they will be at the lower end of that range of that 3% to 4% range so call it 3%.
And was there any there was an inventory adjustment it seems like in the quarter for the category overall for the industry and it was down year-over-year is that right? It certainly was down from the previous quarter end a year ago.
So that is basically how we are looking at it yes.
Got you.
Just one other question if I could on the cigarette business just the price gap between premium and discount brands has narrowed and economic conditions are in better shape and gas prices are lower and that kind of thing I’m just curious you think that price gap can expand a bit and just what that would mean for Camel versus Pall Mall and your portfolio? I think you are right when you look at the economics of the category we have seen that gap narrow and we’ve seen a consumer who is feeling good at the c/gas store shall we say.
And how does that exactly plays out we’ve seen relatively stable pricing in the quarter we’ve seen good net price realization of course as the year unfolds eventually we will last the end of the quota buyout which is in the fourth quarter but I think it remains to be seen but it’s still a highly competitive marketplace and we are pleased with the result of both Pall Mall and Camel as well as of course Grizzly and NAS but I think that the sector is in a good place both with the consumer environment and with the volume if you will.
Okay just if I give one quick follow-up which will be the market share for the brands you are divesting to Imperial can you give that market share were those brands stand today they are above that threshold I assume? Yes.
They are above the threshold and I don’t think we need to go through the market share specifically but they are above the described threshold.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery from CLSA.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit about Santa Fe in terms of some of the drivers and I know you detailed some of the marketing and different things but was there anything unusual in the quarter? And how much is international driving that? Is there any geographic expansion involved? We have as we I think talked in Investor Day may be at Cagney as well.
We have added some sales force to Santa Fe and I think that the brand is certainly benefiting from that.
We also of course launched the updated packaging in the fourth quarter and I think that is doing very well.
And again the general consumer environment is working well for premium.
I think the equity of NAS and it’s absolutely spot on trend in terms of consumers looking for products generally speaking that have our additive-free and that also of course we can have some organic style but I think NAS in its super premium format will continue to grow.
Just for your information there are no international numbers in that reported segment.
Those are in other? Yes.
Okay now that’s helpful.
Thanks.
And as far as the consumer environment being favorable are you seeing greater trial and what kind of repeat and adoption are you getting out of that? Is this a deeper penetration? And how much of that where you are concentrated certainly in very high shares in some cities how much of that is spreading into newer areas where its typically not been as well developed? We continue to see progress on NAS on a national basis.
I think the sound by was that it grew in 49 of 50 states or something.
So we are - I believe that it is - the proposition is continuing to resonate the distribution continues to get stronger with greater style availability and that we will continue to see that moment.
And just in terms of - even if it is in the other segment how is the brand progressing outside the U.S.
or is there any investment there or any kind of push that’s driving some of those numbers as well? We are pleased with the way it’s performing internationally.
I mean as you know this is very small piece of our business but certainly from a brand proposition the resonance and the response we are very pleased.
No that’s great.
Thanks.
And then just one other one on Revo it’s certainly very early there.
What kind of things are you looking for as your guide to what would trigger a broader expansion there and how is it looking like its progressing against any of those benchmarks? Well as I said in the prepared remarks you’re absolutely right it is very early days and we talked about this also I think at our investor presentation where this proprietary heat-not-burn technology and the consumers understanding of that seeing it between vapor and combustibles is very important.
And so what we’re really looking at is proposition understanding.
And if people understand the proposition and they try do they convert? And so it’s going to take some time to get that data.
So we are pleased so far that the brand awareness is building and that then the trial will build.
And then of course the trigger is always is do they convert and is there enough repeat purchase to justify a business expansion.
So we will continue to watch that but we are certainly encouraged with the distribution penetration as I mentioned and we will keep you posted.
And when you say awareness are you measuring an understanding of the proposition or is it more just that they have seen a point they’ve heard of the brand how deep is that awareness measure and obviously it’s not a super exact science but are you trying to get at - when you say awareness does that get it some of the understanding of what the proposition is? Yes it really has to and particularly in a unique product such as Revo because being aware of it but not understanding what does heat-not-burn mean and how - what are their expectations in terms of how the product will perform you’ve got to have proposition awareness to be able to convert people from trial to conversion and loyalty.
So yes it is a deeper measure and as I said as this - as we get more clarity we will certainly share that with you.
Alright thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Judy.
Hi Judy.
So may be a question about the more smokeless tobacco category just in terms of the positive economic impact that we are seeing from a consumer perspective on the cigarettes.
Obviously that doesn’t seem to be impacting the smokeless tobacco category.
So is there number one an element smokeless tobacco consumers that may have traded or cigarette consumers that may have traded down to smokeless in a more difficult economic environment and they are trading up to the cigarette category? Where are you seeing more of the volume from smokeless tobacco going as you think about the broader tobacco categories? Thanks Judy and I think you are spot on.
Remember that there are 9 million smokeless users and 5 million of those are dual users.
And so I think there are several factors impacting this moist category.
One certainly is your hypothesis that if the consumers are feeling better and they have a choice between cigarettes and moist and they want to have a cigarette that is happening.
Second of all is of course moist users seem to be the most promiscuous if you will across the new alternative.
So we see a lot of trial in vapor among moist users.
We’ve always seen the trials news a lot of that came from our moist users.
And so they are more experimental and so correspondingly we see I think it was 1% or so growth in that moist category in the first quarter.
We are very pleased with Grizzly’s performance strong financial performance in a very competitive environment.
The share year-over-year relatively flat but we continue to lead the Wintergreen category and our pouch which is also the fastest growing category is also the fastest growing.
So I think we will see where those moist users land over time but we are pleased with Grizzly’s participation.
Okay.
And then Andrew just a couple of I guess P&amp;L questions first on the NPM adjustment claims I just want to understand I guess make sure that they understand correctly so you’ve got the $70 million that you backed out of - in terms of getting to your adjusted results.
That’s right.
If a look at your MSA payment in the P&amp;L it was down about 14% or so year-over-year.
So can you just give us the clarification of why it was down so much on a year-over-year basis just from the MSA settlement expense perspective? Yeah.
So Judy you’re talking about adjusted or you talking about the GAAP basis? I guess - is that where it’s a GAAP – the $70 million came out of just in terms of - so if I’m just looking at the MSA settlement.
Yeah.
So $70 million was adjusted out that related to the Missouri and Pennsylvania claims that are now certain and can be estimated so we did make that adjustment and that is obviously benefited.
Okay.
So the $394 million of settlement expenses in your supplemental information is inclusive of the $70 million benefit? Yeah.
That’s right.
Okay sorry just a clarification okay.
And then the other expense line you had is $70 million of expense in the quarter? We had income $70 million of income yes.
Yeah.
So can you just tell us what that was because I know last year it looked like that was pretty minimal? Yeah that’s generally related to some foreign exchange exposure that we have.
I think we are one of the few companies with positive FX albeit small.
That’s great to hear okay.
So that was more of a - I guess maybe a one-time kind of a benefit that we shouldn’t necessarily look forward to I guess depending on the FX translation? Okay.
Okay I think that’s clear.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone and welcome Andrew.
Good morning Matt.
Thanks.
Just a couple of questions and some of these you may not be able to address but just to see what we can add.
First you are generating very strong operating profit growth at RJR at the moment and obviously the stronger volumes on your growth brands.
But presumably the high levels of pricing realization are spread across the portfolio.
And you may not be able to decompose this but is this the case for the profit growth is disproportionately skewed to the growth brands or is it more evenly spread across the RJR portfolio? And if so does that result in a slightly higher contribution margin for the divested brands once the transaction closes? Matt I think I am not going to bisect the profit growth across the brand portfolio.
We are very pleased with the profit growth.
We have a 40% margin at RJRT and we are confident in the way that this is balanced.
So that’s it.
Okay.
Thanks Susan.
And could you talk a little bit more just about the Engel settlement on the federal cases and what you see is the benefits of that? And I definitely understand the arguments in favor of foreclosing the tail risks associated with those and the favorability on legal expenses.
But do you think there is an inherent risk to settling in such a high-profile class of litigation? Matt I think as we’ve said in our releases we feel that putting behind us these hundreds of cases on the federal docket is the best result.
And while the settlement isn’t finalized it makes sense for us from a legal expense perspective and we don’t believe it will have negative impact on our ability to try the state cases.
So we have done a lot of evaluation of this settlement and believe it’s the best way forward.
Okay.
And then lastly just on guidance and the competitive environment I know I’m probably on some level there is a desire to wait until the potential closure of the transaction to revisit guidance.
But in prior quarters you’ve talked about your guidance range accounting for some degree of competitive uncertainty going forward.
I guess my question is after several quarters of very strong pricing it doesn’t seem to have slowed that materially.
Do you think the level of competitive uncertainty in the cigarette category has declined or has it taken a step back in a way that might persist for the foreseeable future? I think the competitiveness of the category is very strong and everybody is executing against their strategy.
As it relates to our guidance of course we will look at revising our guidance upon the closure of the transaction.
So traditionally we have looked at our guidance as the year is unfolded and tightened that range and we would certainly expect to do that if for some reason that the transaction doesn’t conclude.
But as I said we remain confident.
Okay.
Thanks and congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bonnie.
Good morning.
My first question is on your margin but just asking a little bit differently your expansion of 4.6% was huge.
So could you drill down on the drivers behind this to help us understand how much of this is driven from higher pricing and favorable mix shift versus your lower costs? And then could you also quantify your net price realization? I am not sure if you did that yet? Yeah Bonnie.
I think - this is Andrew I think as we look at this obviously net price realization was a key driver of this.
We did see some growth of 5.9% at RJRT on net price realization.
The other driver obviously on the cost side that you are seeing is the tobacco quota buyout ending last September.
So that obviously played a significant role in the cost coming down as well.
Okay.
And it’s really those two drivers that are - along with the volume component that are driving this.
Okay and then a question on Camel.
Susan you mentioned the lower gas prices are certainly helping and if I am - and I’m also hearing this from a lot of the retailers which is leading to up-trading.
So was this one of the key drivers behind your Camel’s strong performance? And then do you believe you can retain Camel’s strong volume momentum once gas prices go back up? Well I think Camel as we continue to invest in new styles like Camel White and in the equity behind the brand the Camel’s momentum which we’ve really seen over the last several years and the momentum f capsule - that obviously if people are trading up and they are satisfied and become loyal to the brand that we would be able to continue that.
And of course gas price is a very real economic change for our consumers but the general economy also has an impact.
So if gas prices go up the general economy also raises and it affect wages then that keeps our consumer in a good place.
So we will continue to watch this but of course it was a very favorable quarter.
Absolutely.
And then just my final question is on vapor.
Although the broad vapor market is still growing quite a bit the growth seems to have moderated and a couple of concerns I have include one the performance of existing products in the market still isn’t strong enough for greater conversion from combustible cigs.
And then secondly there is an increasing perception that e-cigs and vapor may not be as safe as originally assumed.
So I was hoping to hear your thoughts on both of these topics and what your strategy is to address them.
Thank you.
Yeah as I said I think we’ve all to seen – and I think your report on that was absolutely right that we are seeing flattening in the space of course there is continued growth of the tanks and the mods and the liquids and how does that affect the ciga light market and it’s still very very dynamic.
What we do know is there has been tremendous trial of vapor across cigarette smokers and the conversion has not been as high as we would have liked to see and yet there is continued use.
And so what that would say to us is that people aren’t finding the complete satisfaction either from a convenient or from a satisfaction prospective in the vapor space as of today.
Now we still believe there is a lot of upside for VUSE because we do know when we get that into the hands of cigarette smokers or people who have already moved to they think that it is satisfying.
So I think what we would expect to see is there will be more trial and we will continue to drive trial on VUSE specifically but then there are consumers who are waiting for something that isn’t out there yet.
They are looking for perhaps satisfaction and convenience that’s not available as they know it today.
So I think that also there is an impact of your second point which is the contradictory information in the media about the relative less harm of e-cigarettes.
And I believe that conversion to e-cigarettes has the potential to be good for public health and I believe that’s still what the data implied.
But there is a lot of contradictory arguments and this is making consumers question whether or not they should be in the vapor category.
So I think that it is very important that we continue to see public entities and lawmakers provide consumers with accurate information on the potential for harm reduction across the continuum and we continue to be proponents of that.
So I think we are just in the timeframe when everything is scrambling but hopefully there will be more clarity and there will be more science and more people who have the capacity and the credibility to talk about that science.
Yes good point.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sachin Shah from Albert Fried.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Happy Friday.
Good morning and to you.
Just curious in the last two three weeks we’ve seen several positive reports on the deal kind of ranging from FTC mulling a settlement with you guys to allow the deal to – the FTC Bureau of Economics as well as the Head of the Bureau of Competition Director Feinstein basically in favor of the transaction.
So I guess the question is just wanted to find out if those reports were accurate? And also it just seems that the question is more of when they will approve the deal versus kind of if they approve the deal at this point is that kind of a fare assessment? I think it’s obviously always interesting to see the media.
I learned a lot from the MLex report myself but that’s – anyway certainly there has been a lot of speculation.
As I said in my prepared remarks I continue to remain confident that we will close in the first half.
Many of you will realize actually that this earnings call is earlier than we usually go and of course that enables us to have the most flexibility.
Should the transaction be agreed and should we want to prepare to close obviously it gives us ultimate flexibility for financing.
So I think obviously you will hear when we do but we continue to be confident.
Okay.
Just one last point.
I think you guys stated and maybe this is just a little semantics but you are expecting the deal to close by the mid-year is that May June July versus the first half which is basically the end of June is there anything to read from that I mean –? No this is not a tricky question.
I would say that the first half is by June 30.
Okay perfect.
Thank you Cameron.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer from Cowen and Company.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
So my first question have to do with MST pricing which was incredibly robust is there anything to call out there that was kind of one-time in nature in the quarter? I would say no Vivien.
You are laughing the first quarter last year and actually probably the competitiveness and the promotion in that market continue to accelerate through last year.
So I would say it was very strong we’re very happy with Grizzly’s performance but I would call out nothing specific.
Yeah Vivien if you remember we had the launch last year of the Wide Cut Wintergreen and obviously there was promotional activity that went along with that.
We did not have that activity in first quarter.
Our launch in this quarter was actually at the end of March so there was some timing differences.
But overall first half of the year we are going to have very similar dynamics as Susan says.
Understood.
That’s helpful.
In terms of the state excise tax environment can you offer an update on that and what your expectations are for a full year as ET increases? Yeah.
I mean it’s still early.
As you know most of these people go home around the summertime.
We think we’ve had some good results so far but we are looking at less than $0.10 and that continues to be our marker and obviously as these states go home we will be able to update.
Still early early time.
Yeah it’s still April.
That’s great.
It sounds pretty accommodative.
My last question has to do with the TPSAC meeting on modified risk tobacco products and whether you could comment at all on kind of how you view the agency looking at MRTPs after you’ve kind of had an opportunity to see them review one of your competitor’s proposals? You know Vivien it’s very hard for me to make any commentary on the TPSAC and what they may or may not do and what they will review will consider I think obviously it’s clearly in the agency’s purview to look at any of these products.
And we continue to want the agency to publicly address the risk continuum.
And so if this contributes to that in my opinion that would be a good thing.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I had just a quick follow-up question actually two if I could easy ones.
Just ask Andrew with the MSA benefit you got in the quarter is there an ongoing benefit from Missouri and Pennsylvania that will flow through your earnings while you are recognizing the incoming earnings? No there is not.
This is solely related to the 2003 arbitration.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just one other quick one which would be the all other division the revenue was down sequentially from last quarter and just with VUSE having hit its peak if you will in terms of outlets I just was surprised by that is there anything unique going on in that division? There’s a lot of little things in there but just with VUSE growing the way it is I just was surprised for that being down sequentially in revenue.
Any thoughts or commentary on that would be great.
Yeah there is nothing really unique going on there.
I think some of that is just related to the roll-out and pipeline associated with the VUSE’s expansion.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Morris Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining us today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.