Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Reynolds American Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we’ll review Reynolds American’s results for the second quarter and first half and our revised outlook for the rest of the year.
As usual our discussion will focus on adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron; and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by Federal Securities Laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As our report today makes clear we accomplished a great deal during the second quarter making further progress in our continuing transformation journey.
In mid-June of course we successfully completed RAI’s purchase of Lorillard and the related divesture to ITG Brands and I am pleased to say that the integration of the Newport brand is going very well our employees have done a fantastic job in managing the initial transition.
In fact RAI had an excellent quarter reporting substantially higher earnings and operating margin and that wrapped up a very successful first half.
These results reflected strong financial performance at all of our operating companies and continued momentum behind their distinctive brands.
Of course I would note that given the timing of the closing in mid-June second quarter results versus last year or not directly comparable.
So it was a strong second quarter and first half marked by higher pricing across the board and strong volumes.
And now we’re poised for new growth following the acquisition.
As we settle along the addition of the Newport brand will give R.J.
Reynolds increased scale and improved operational efficiencies as well as higher sales volume resulting from the complementary nature of Newport and the rest of R.J.
Reynolds cigarette portfolio.
The result will be a significantly more profitable business that will continue to reward shareholders and fuel the continued research development and innovation that our companies need for long-term sustainability in a changing environment.
Our transition is still far from complete and here I would remind you that the manufacturing of Newport will continue under a reciprocal agreement until production is fully transferred to the Tobaccoville manufacturing facility later next year.
A good deal of work remains to be done but we have a great track record and it’s executing these kinds of combinations and I am confident that the process will continue to run smoothly.
The second quarter strong business performance has reinforced our confidence in the continuing strength of our operating company.
So we are making several important announcements this morning.
We are increasing our quarterly cash dividend by 7.5%.
This is our 12 dividend increase since RAI was formed in 2004.
We are also implementing a two-for-one stock split which will be our third stock split since 2004.
In addition we have increased our adjusted earnings growth projections for the year to a range of 11% to 17% over last year’s adjusted results.
That compares with our previous 2015 guidance of 6.7% to 11% growth.
I think you will agree that these actions clearly demonstrate a high level of conviction for our businesses as well as our commitment to returning value to our shareholders.
And Andrew will be giving you some more details shortly.
Before I move on to discuss our operating performance I'd like to give you a quick update on our progress with other key aspects of our transforming tobacco strategy.
I am pleased to report that RJR Vapor VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette continue to perform well in the second quarter.
VUSE which uses digital technology to deliver a superior vaping experience has been a consistent category leader.
VUSE is now in national distribution in more than a 100 000 retail outlets and has solidified its position as the top selling electronic cigarette in the C-Store channel.
VUSE’s success is based not just on its strong and distinctive product qualities.
The brand also offers retailers best in class support with high-impact national and local marketing campaigns.
We continue to see great promise in the vapor category and we will continue to innovate and invest to keep VUSE’s as the leading most advanced product in the marketplace.
000 outlets.
Zonnic is the leading NRT in the convenience gas channel and we expect its phase expansion to continue into next year.
Also as you know R.J.
Reynolds expanded Revo heat-not-burn cigarettes into Wisconsin in February to gain learning on consumer interest in heat-not-burn products.
Revo has seen consumer interest and trial but actual adoption rates of the product have not met our expectation.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds has decided to discontinue marketing support for Revo in Wisconsin.
However we do remain optimistic about the long-term potential for heat-not-burn and we continue to work to improve this technology.
So that’s a quick review of the quarter's main headlines.
Before I turn to discussion of the results at our operating companies.
I would just note here that we have refreshed our corporate branding and redesigned our website to reflect the new brand portfolio and there will be more news on that in early August.
I also note that we’ve changed the method of measuring our operating companies’ cigarette and moist-snuff retail market share to more accurately reflect marketplace performance across all channels.
While absolute retail market share levels may differ from previously reported data the overall trend are not materially different.
Now let’s start the discussion with traditional cigarettes which we refer to as combustibles.
Total RAI operating companies’ domestic cigarette volume increased 5.6% in the second quarter and 2.4% for the first six months of 2015.
This compares to cigarette industry gains of 1.9% and 1.2% during the same period.
However on an inventory adjusted basis industry cigarette volumes were down slightly from both periods.
Total RAI operating companies’ domestic retail market share increased two-tenth of a percentage point to 33.6% in the second quarter and one-tenth of percentage point to 33.8% for the first half of 2015.
R.J.
Reynolds turned in another strong quarter supported by higher cigarette pricing and the completion of the federal tobacco-quota buyout.
In addition the company’s cigarette shipments increased in the second quarter benefiting from the addition of two weeks of Newport.
R.J.
Reynolds cigarette volumes therefore increased by almost 4.5%.
I also need to note that R.J.
Reynolds retail market share is presented on a pro forma basis which reflects share information from the company's new brand portfolio following the Lorillard acquisition and the related divestiture.
As a result R.J.
Reynolds total cigarette retail market share was down slightly from the prior year quarter at 31.8%.
R.J.
Reynolds new portfolio of growth brands Newport Camel and Pall Mall performed well in the second quarter and now make up more than 90% of the company’s total cigarette market share.
Their combined second quarter share was 29.2% and that was up two-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
Newport continue to advance in the second quarter we share of retail shipments increasing four-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter to 13.2%.
Newport’s gains were driven by its strength in menthol and R.J.
Reynolds strategy going forward will be to energize and reinforce this powerful brand.
Camel also continue to benefit from its menthol styles that use capsule technology and the brands total cigarette retail market share was in line with the prior year quarter at 8.2%.
R.J.
Reynolds Pall Mall value brand is playing an essential role in the company's portfolio strategy by providing the right balance between market share and profitability.
As a result Pall Mall second quarter retail market share of 7.8% was down three-tenths of a percentage point from the prior year quarter.
This true value proposition is expected to benefit from additional brand equity building efforts going forward resulting in increased trial and conversion.
At Santa Fe performance continues to exceed even our own high expectations.
The company increased second quarter operating income by almost 50% and reported a significant quarterly jump in operating margin.
The Santa Fe team is really executing wonderfully and of course the Natural American Spirit brand is the driving force.
This undiscounted super-premium brand ended the quarter with the retail market share of 1.8% on volume growth of just over 25%.
Natural American Spirit has a loyal and growing franchise and the brand strength is based on its distinctive additive free tobacco style including those made with organic tobacco.
Now turning to moist-snuff an American snuff strong performance.
Higher pricing and volume came through for the company in the second quarter and operating income again grew by double-digits.
Moist-snuff industry volumes continue to be impacted by consumer shift between various tobacco products and the industry remains very competitive.
Even so American snuff second quarter moist-snuff volume increased by 6% almost double the moist industry volume growth.
The company's moist-snuff retail market share increased 1.1 percentage points to 33.8% in the second quarter.
American snuff’s flagship brand Grizzly performed very well in the second quarter with its retail market share increasing 1.3 percentage points to 31.1% and this was on volume growth of just over 7%.
Grizzly’s momentum is being driven by its popular pouch style which is the fastest-growing style of moist-snuff and represents about 18% of the total categories.
The brands Dark Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally in March is also performing well and contributing to Grizzly's growth.
So as you can see it's been a really terrific quarter for our company.
And as I said earlier there's a lot of work still to be done with the integration of Newport’s but this kind of performance both very well for the rest of the year and beyond.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
RAI had a stellar second quarter and first half over and above our completion of the acquisition of Lorillard and the related divesture.
RAI increased second quarter adjusted EPS by 14.6% from the prior year quarter to $1.02 supported by higher pricing across the board as well as the benefit from the completion of federal tobacco-quota buyout in 2014.
I would note that the completion of the Lorillard acquisition did not affect our adjusted EPS in the second quarter.
As a reminder our shares outstanding increased by 183 million to 715 million shares post close.
These adjusted results exclude a charge of $0.09 per share for transaction related and financing costs a charge of $0.12 per share were integration and implementation costs and the gain of $2.57 per share for the divesture.
On a reported basis second quarter EPS was $3.38 up more than 267% from the prior year quarter driven by the gain on the divesture to ITG Brands.
First half adjusted EPS was $1.88 which was up 17.5% from the prior year period.
These adjusted results exclude the previously mentioned items as well as the benefit of $0.08 per share from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim a charge of $0.13 per share for Engle progeny lawsuits and a charge of $0.02 per share for tobacco related and other litigation.
On a reported basis first half EPS was $4.20 up over 164% driven by the gain on the divesture to ITG Brands.
RAI’s adjusted operating margin also came in very strong again increasing 4.7 percentage points to 42.1% for the quarter.
Now I’ll turn to our operating company’s performance where I’ll focus on adjusted results.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
R.J.
Reynolds performed very well reflecting about two weeks of Newport’s results.
The company’s second quarter adjusted operating income increased by more than 19% to $832 million.
That brought first half adjusted operating income to $1.5 billion.
In the company’s second quarter adjusted operating margin rose by 4.2 percentage points to 44.4%.
With the moderation in cigarette industry volume declines in the first half of this year the company’s second quarter cigarette volumes were up 4.4% from the prior year quarter.
This compares to cigarette industry volumes which were up 1.9%.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7.6 billion units at the end of the second quarter up about 1.6 billion from the prior year quarter.
While R.J.
Reynolds inventories of approximately 2.4 billion were up about 800 million reflecting the impact of additional Newport inventory resulting from the acquisition.
When adjusting of these wholesale inventory changes cigarette industry volumes declined approximately eight-tenths of a percentage point in the second quarter.
Santa Fe another incredible job in the quarter driving operating income up by 48.9% to $125 million and that brought its first half to $217 million the company’s second quarter operating margin jump by 7.6 percentage points to 57.2%.
Now I’ll turn to American Snuff.
The company benefited from higher volume in addition to higher pricing and the second quarter operating income increased almost 18% to $130 million that brought first half operating income to $248 million.
The company's operating margin rose 3.1 percentage points from the prior year quarter to 59.4%.
Before I open up the Q&amp;A session I’d like to cover some other financial items.
Earlier this month RAI successfully concluded the private offers to exchange the outstanding senior notes originally issued by Lorillard for newly issued notes of RAI.
Together with our successful bond offering related to the acquisition itself the company’s long-term debt now stands at $17.6 billion.
Our debt portfolio carries an average interest rate of 4.5% in an average maturity of 12.4 years.
I do want to emphasize here that our near-term focus is to deleverage as efficiently and quickly as possible while maintaining appropriate financial flexibility.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $4 billion and that reflects the $1.4 billion MSA payment in April.
Finally I’d like to add some details to the important announcements that we made this morning.
RAI’s board approved the two-for-one stock split which will be payable on August 31 to shareholders of record on August 17.
And the 7.5% dividend increase will bring our annualized split adjusted dividend to $1.44 or $0.36 on a quarterly basis.
This reflects our commitment to our 75% dividend payout ratio following the Lorillard acquisition.
Now that we’ve completed our acquisition of Lorillard along with a very successful first half RAI is increasing its full-year adjusted earnings guidance to a range of $1.90 to $2 per share.
This of course reflects the pending stock split.
We expect to narrow this 2015 guidance range when we report third quarter results as we gain more insight into the dynamics of the new product portfolio any potential impacts to the industry's competitive environment and the phase of our anticipated cost synergies.
Please note that this adjusted earnings guidance excludes all of the items I mentioned at the beginning of my discussion.
Thank you.
Now we’ll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone and congratulations on the quarter.
Good morning Matt.
Thank you.
Thanks.
So first just two question.
This maybe a topic for Friday but Andrew could you talk a bit about how you are thinking about the pacing of synergy realization whether you have any initial targets you can share on what might be achievable as we’re thinking about 2015 and what are some of the early milestones on the integration that we should be looking for that would allow you to accelerate the cost savings? Yes I think as we look at this nothing is really change in terms of our outlook on the synergies.
We still anticipate $800 million for the cost synergies we think $300 million of that will come over the next 18 months.
In terms of the timeframe there Matt nothing has changed we certainly will have a better view I think by the end of the third quarter and whether that 18 months is still a reasonable timeframe or whether that's something we can accelerate forward.
So the $800 million is still the number we are working off of it at this time and as far as the anticipated benefits as we’ve said we will be accretive in the first full 12 months and then we’re looking at double-digit accretion in the second full-year.
Okay.
Great thanks Andrew.
And then I wanted to ask just for your assessment of the performance for Susan I guess the performance of Newport across its various styles.
How you would characterize the brands momentum right now across both its menthol styles and the red and gold variance and just any initial thoughts on how you might approach those line extensions differently? As you know Matt I mean we really haven't headed in the house that long but clearly the momentum is primarily driven by its strength in menthol.
And so we’ll evaluate the red and the gold styles they certainly add to the overall market share of Newport which has picked up four-tenths year-over-year but we will look to energize and reinforce Newport and be focused really on the menthol portfolio.
Okay great.
Thank you both.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
You mentioned change - or I guess you mentioned some push on for trial and conversion on Pall Mall is there any change in your approach there? And can you talk a little bit about how it might be different versus what you’ve done with the brand in the past? Really I think we talked about Pall Mall which truly has this longer-lasting benefit.
It has more tobacco it has more puffs than any other value brand and equal are more than actually other premium products.
So the big issue with Pall Mall is really awareness of the proposition.
And we’ve continued to grow that awareness as obviously we’ve grown the brand but there is still enormous opportunity and certainly when we do research amongst consumers if they knew about that proposition they would choose Pall Mall.
And so we will do some investment as we have done but we will do some investment to increase that proposition awareness.
The other thing you need to think about because Pall Mall did lose some market share year-over-year we were also focused on ensuring that Winston-Salem in KOOL were met the asset purchase agreement arrangement and so we were spending to make sure that those market shares came through.
And of course that did in effect we pulled back a little bit on Pall Mall and so we are confident that Pall Mall will continue to play it’s very important role in our portfolio and we will balance profitability and market share.
Okay that’s helpful.
Yes thank you.
And then you also mentioned on capital allocation the focus on deleveraging but your near-term maturities are relatively limited is there going to be a focus on prepayment of some of those debts or is it just in terms of building your cash balance or EBITDA in terms of net debt to EBITDA metric.
How are you thinking about that? It certainly will be trying to grow our business that's certainly is a component but we will be looking to pay down our debt as it matures over the next several years.
But not necessarily ahead of that in terms of the maturity schedule.
At this point not necessarily.
And so then is there I mean I know this is a bit premature but is it possible buyback skip back on the radar maybe in a year or year and a half? Michael what I would say on that is we’re focused on deleveraging when we get to that one and a half to two and a half range that’s when we’re going to revisit buybacks that’s when we revisit our dividend policy and sort to look at all of those sorts of things and how best you to return value to shareholder.
So really our focus short-term is to get back into that range of one and a half to two and a half and then we’ll revisit some of those things? And then just lastly on that the dividend obviously is a part of that but you’ve said you want to get to the 75% payout and it looks like you’ve got some headroom there.
If you have a line to say early next year and the dust is settled on some of the moving parts of the deal is it possible you could have move on the dividend.
I know it’s up to the board but that’s not necessarily just a year away is that a fair way to - is that a fair assumption to make? I think that is a fair assumption I think we’re obviously committed to the 75% payout and that’s something that we’re going to be looking at on a regular basis to make sure we can deliver on that.
And Michael to be fair we do recognize that the range that we're providing today while it’s a 11% to 17% is a wide range and that is why we said that as we get into the end of the third quarter we should be able to tighten that and obviously we’ll have a clear perspective on where it's going in 2016.
Right.
And then 11% to 17% is also above the 7.5%.
So it seems like there is definitely some room for maneuvering there right? Yes.
Okay.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vivien Azer of Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you good morning.
Good morning Vivien.
Good morning.
So industry volumes continue to impress quite nicely even on an inventory adjusted basis.
So Susan I was hoping to hear your updated thoughts on your outlook for the industry in any incremental insights on what's driving this change in consumer behavior please? I'm sure as you noted industry volumes are up 1.9% but on an inventory adjusted basis they’re down about eight-tenths of a percentage point.
So as we think back to 2014 when we saw in the first half lots of inventory dollars going into vapor.
We think that of course that has ended and now we’ve left those six months the industry has performed very well.
And we expect I think as the year unfolds that the volume will decline year-over-year around 2%.
And we’ll just have to see how that unfolds in this third and fourth quarter.
That's great.
Thank you very much.
My second question have to do with the Camel brand roughly holding share.
But the share gains have decelerated a bit as I look at kind of the quarterly progress accounting for the change in your share presentation.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the competitive dynamics that may be impacting Camel? Yes I mean we were happy with Camel volume up 3.5% and as you mentioned the change in the share metrics you know obviously impacted the year-over-year compare.
But that's all in there on a pro forma basis.
So Camel has continued to do very well.
We are very happy with the menthol style performing well and you know I did mention before of course there is always a little bit of impact when we were focusing on Winston and KOOL and so that can touch everybody a little bit.
But now those brands have been divested and Camel has some exciting programs in the second half.
So we are continued to be confident on Camel’s opportunity.
That’s great thank you.
My last question for Andrew please the margin expansion that Santa Fe delivered clearly exceptional? Can you give us a framework for thinking about margin progression for that business in the back half for the year? Yes I think you know the biggest element here Vivien is obviously we’ll be lapping the tobacco-quota buyout in fourth quarter.
So there will be a bit of an adjustment there but generally what we’re looking at is volume and pricing for Santa Fe and that’s really driving everything.
So we’ll obviously have a pullback based on the lapping of the tobacco-quota buyout but overall that's pretty much the math behind it.
Vivien the other thing I thought I'd add you asked me a little bit about consumers in the context of this volume you know we did see the moist industry was up about 3% in this quarter.
But we continue to see a lot of consumers trying different kinds of products particularly moist consumers very interested in vapor interested in other tobacco product types.
And of course as we know many moist users also smoke cigarettes.
And we have seen you know continuation of gas prices have been good we hear C-store traffic is good.
And so there's been a resulting benefit in premium mix as well as in overall consumption.
Terrific thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Owen Bennett of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Owen.
Good morning.
And just quick on e-vapor.
I was just wondering if you could comment on the e-vapor performance it looks like it could have become profitable in the quarter based on the all of the segment.
I was just wondering is this more driven by investment being pulled but not all top line momentum? Thank you.
Thanks Owen.
I would describe the vapor segment and there has been a lot written about it is relatively stable you know VUSE continues to be the number one is E-Cigarette in gas convenience and vapor is probably 5 or 5 plus percent of total tobacco today when you add in all the vap shops and all forms of vapor.
Having said that in terms of our financials on VUSE we are lapping the national rollout and of course the expense in this quarter - it is certainly much lower than the same period last year.
We will continue to invest in VUSE and we will make appropriate investments as we work to continue to add innovation to that category.
Okay thank you.
So if you think I mean is there any timeframe on when it will become more consistently profitable I guess? There is not really a specific timeframe we are happy with its contribution and as I said we will continue to innovate in this space to offer consumers choice.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everyone.
Good morning Nik.
Good morning.
Couple of questions.
First I just want to make sure to get the pricing math right.
So we’re looking at about 6%-ish in terms of net price realization in the cigarette business and that's accounted for Newport coming into but the divested brands coming out.
So I guess the question is the divested brands going out that they have similar level of pricing as Newport.
That’s the first question just so I can get that right.
And then the second question is really on the regulatory side so the [indiscernible] given their viewpoint on modified growth but the FDA has not and Susan I was just wondering if maybe you could opine on your thoughts on how the FDA is thinking about this whole situation? Nik let me take the first question on net price realization you are looking at that right RGRT was 6.1% for the quarter Santa Fe was 3.2% for the quarter.
So on the cigarette business the 6% are good number.
I think when you look at the impact of Newport I would say that had very minimal impact on the overall net price realization.
It was obviously only two weeks and looking at the divested brands numbers I would say it was minimal in the quarter minimal impact from Newport.
Great.
And Nik on the other question we continue to believe that the deeming regs will come out sometime this summer summer is beginning to go past but that’s the best information that we have and of course we feel very confident that we can respond to whatever those regs are.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Hi I just had a two follow-ups if I could from earlier questions and not to be so short-term focus but is there earnings accretion coming through from the Lorillard acquisition here in the second half if you will or here in 2015? There will be yes.
Okay.
Although as we’ve said we expect that in the first 12 months or will be some accretion in the back half of this year yes.
Okay just want to be sure on that.
Thank you.
And then I was also curious in relation to Camel is the capsule technology and its presence in menthol is that complementary to Newport or is that change your sort of marketing strategy for Camel going forward just given your now very large presence in the menthol category? We are getting to know very well now the Newport consumer and the most important thing is to look at the consumers for Newport and the consumers for Camel there actually is not a lot of overlap and so we see opportunities for both brands and we will continue to refine that strategy going forward.
Okay and just one quick follow-up on I believe the question on like debt-to-EBITDA and debt payout focus are now.
Is there a certain threshold where not - you would like to share repurchase the company’s more comfortable is it two times the debt to EBITDA that you like to get back to before you start thinking about share repurchase activity is there or a hard line there? Well certainly we are looking at 2.5 is the number that we’ve talked about getting back to before we start to evaluate the options on share repurchase.
So we like to operate in that 1.5 to 2.5 range but certainly if we get to 2.5 that’s sort of the threshold that we would start to evaluate whether it would be share repurchase or potentially a dividend policy change back to our 80% that we had historically.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Judy.
Good morning.
For Andrew just a couple of follow-up from me and just in terms of the quarter I know you said the deal didn’t really impact the earnings number but can you just give us the impact on revenue and operating income? Sure if you look at net sales that was about 6% impact from the acquisition and on the net income side it was about 6% and then obviously the diluted shares outstanding changed about 6.8% The net income impact to 6% do you have the operating income impacts? Operating income was 9%.
Okay and then on the guidance I think you just answered Chris’s question about the accretion from Lorillard being some of the drivers but in terms of if you look - we look at your underlying results you’ve increased guidance for the year.
Does that also include some positive performance in terms of volume and pricing and margin in terms of your underlying performance as well? Certainly that takes into account.
The outlook for the year we think we’re obviously ahead of very good first half for the year and it does take into account the accretion that we’re claiming to have in the back half of the year as well as just overall performance.
As Susan said one of the things that we will be looking at with industry volumes up 1.9% in the first half.
The second half we do anticipate being a bit different than that because we will be lapping some of the moderation of the industry volume decline as well as we will be lapping the federal tobacco-quota buyout ending in October so both of those things have been taken into account.
Okay.
And then Susan maybe just your perspective on with some of the changes in terms of the brand ownership with Imperial and obviously your ownership of Newport’s just your assessment of how you envision the competitive dynamics sort of evolving into next 6 to 12 months.
And then as you now become as your brand mix is now a bit more premium is there any change to just in terms of how you think about your pricing and promotional strategies for your total brand portfolio? I mean it’s little early to describe all that and we will go into some more details in the meetings later this week and early next week and those will also be webcast.
But I would say obviously we are very excited to have Newport in the house very excited about the opportunity for Newport.
And as you’ve referenced we sit here with 90% to 92% of our volume now in the growth brands with an enhanced premium mix and we will certainly go to market to compete in those must win segments.
And we’ll also take a look some of you read through the asset purchase agreement and the surrounding terms but we are in sort of a standstill period at retail with ITG Brand and that will evolve over the next six months and we’ll explain some of those things as I said as the week goes on but sufficed to say that we are getting to know the Newport consumer we’ve picked up 50 000 additional retail contracts many new customers and a significant database of those customers.
And so we are working on our strategies to optimize our performance and I think that you'll see a great run going forward.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Thanks Judy.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Bonnie.
Good morning.
Well I just have two questions I guess I was hoping you could talk a little bit more in the manufacturing of Newport and why this transition won't take place until next year Susan I think you mentioned later next year so should we assume third or fourth quarter and I guess I'm curious why this is taking so long.
Sure Bonnie.
We’ve scheduled this for 18 months we are physically moving the machines that made Newport from Greensboro into our factory in Tobaccoville and this absolutely ensures that we will meet the FDA requirements to produce exactly the same specification.
And so we're moving a machine every couple of weeks but it takes time to move those machines and then we have complexes that are moving to Greensboro to produce Winston-Salem and KOOL.
And so that has all been lined up the volume will fold in here.
So it won't come exactly smoothly and we’ll be prepared as Andrew said I think but the back of the third quarter we’ll be able to give you a little more information about that but we have allowed the right amount of time to ensure that we can exactly reproduce and so in that interim we have a reciprocal manufacturing agreement with ITG Brands.
We are making Winston-Salem and KOOL for them and they are making Newport for us and once that volume all gets into Tobaccoville of course we will recognize quite a significant operational efficiency and cost base.
So it’s really a second half 2016 by the time you're finished with this transition? Yes it is.
And then just quickly are you seeing any disruptions at this point so far with this reciprocal agreement? We are not.
I think there has been some rumblings about Newport inventory and actually to be honest with you the total inventory of Newport that is out in the trade is absolutely standard levels.
It's not exactly all equally placed as it happened and so we have not heard of any concerns about retail out of stocks but there have been some wholesalers that put things on quota.
And it was interesting because we close that transaction on June 12 and we took orders on the [Monday].
So we manage that transition very well but we move for instance from a one-day to a three-day delivery so we had wholesalers ordering more product upfront.
We also probably had wholesalers that we’re worried it wouldn't work so they ordered a lot of product upfront.
And then there were a couple of states where there were tax increases where there was no floor tax and they ordered a lot upfront.
So we are very confident in the manufacturing agreement and all volumes are intact.
It's just that they're finding their way to the right places in this early stage.
Yes we’re working to smooth out that inventory.
I think it should be considered sort of a short-term issue.
Okay that’s good to hear.
And then my final question is sort of a follow-on Natural American Spirit which again continues to perform very well.
So curious to hear where these share gains are being sourced from and then could you may be drill down on the strength of the brand and how much this has been a function of the stronger tobacco consumer versus some of your stepped-up promotions behind the brands.
Because I think as you mentioned earlier the stepped-up problem was probably contributed to your lower net price realization for the brand.
We’ll probably remember that’s off a much higher base.
Right.
So NAS does not discount and the promotions are trial promotion only.
I’d say the following we would say that the increase in sales volume at NAS is more than half same-store same style and so it really continues to resonate with consumer.
Now to your point the whole premium segment is doing well amongst consumers but NAS particularly has such a relevant positioning for today's consumer and it’s a differentiated positioning.
And we’ll talk again a little bit more about that on these upcoming webcasts and in the meetings that we’re going to hold Friday and Monday.
But NAS continues to go from strength to strength is gaining market share in every state and I think it reached that sort of critical mass tipping point in many of the very trendsetting cities here in the U.S.
So we are very bullish about it continuing to run.
I would just add on the marketing support promotional support side that has not changed significantly year-over-year.
That’s been pretty consistent all the way through.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Bonnie.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Marshall of Barclays.
Your line is open.
I just had a couple of follow-up questions we haven’t talked a whole lot about specific revenue synergies with the acquisition and you’ve talked a little bit about how Camel and Newport are both pretty complementary also from a geographic perspective they are pretty complementary.
So I was curious if we could get your thoughts on the potential for geographic expansion for Newport I know it's still early days but just how you are thinking about that going forward.
And then just as a follow-up how to ensure from the sales force perspective that they are prioritizing the two brands Camel and Newport both are doing very well obviously and how you keep the focus on both brands separately? Thank you.
Sure Bill thanks.
I think certainly there are opportunities for revenue synergies if you think about it Newport has almost doubled its sales force representation within this transaction and so there are just that many more people out there representing Newport in that many more stores.
We are very confident that our sales force with prioritized programs will focus on our priority brand.
There is certainly geographic complementarity and as we will talk a little bit more about how this will unfold in terms of the retail universe over the next 9 month to 12 month as we get into these meetings later in the week.
But we are confident we do believe that we can accelerate the growth of Newport and specific plans on how that will happen will unfold by the end of this year.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning and thank you so much for the question.
First the housekeeping item the perspectives related to your debt issuance indicated that you had $1.1 billion in revolver borrowings outstanding around mid-June.
I’m curious if that was still the case that month.
And then secondly if you look at sort of your schedule for debt maturities that looks like you don't get back to that 1.5 times to 2.5 times range potentially into 2018.
I wanted to make sure that that sort of directionally the right way to think about it or if there is some potential to hit that range little sooner? Thank you.
Yes I think the answer to your first question yes that has been paid back the $1.1 billion was paid back in June and so that is reflected in the numbers.
And I think you are looking at exactly right 2018 if we continue to pay that debt down as it matures that 2018 is the timeframe that that would be in.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Priya.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Michael Lavery of CLSA.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Two quick follow-ups first enter the 6% and 9% contribution from the deal to sales and EBIT is that for RJR segment or the total company level? That’s the total company.
Okay great thanks.
And then just back to following up on the vapor question - what that profitable in the quarter that was apparent to me? It was not it was not I think Susan outline that’s we are going to continue to look at the we’ve had year now since the national launch and were continuing to refine our strategies and our view on that but it was not in the second quarter.
That makes more sense.
And then did you still think that it would have been in 3Q or is that and fairly the case? That is not necessarily the case we have not given any specific timeframe for that I think we are going to continue to evaluate the category continue to see how that category develops and the competitive environment and we’ll invest appropriately.
But we are confident long-term that our model is the right model and that will get to very profitable situation.
So do you’re not thinking anymore that it will be profitable starting next quarter or that I guess this quarter that we’re in now.
No.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Spielman of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Adam.
I wanted to ask a question about how fall the route-to-market agreements limits your ability to markets and change the promotion and the way you deal with consumers in the next five months and also the next I guess 18 months or 17 months.
What impact that will have on your business? Adam if you'll indulge me we will cover that this Friday in New York and next Monday in London and it will be webcast because it takes a little time to walk through the various portions of that timeframe and that route-to-market.
So if I say we are absolutely confident that we will continue to be competitive and that that our brands will continue great performance but there are phases in the route-to-market that will affect some of the development timetable.
So we will outline those later this week.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
At this time there are no other questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back Mr.
Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you again for joining our call today.
If you have any additional questions please contact us at Investor Relations.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.