Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Reynolds American Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to avoid any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session Thank you.
Morris Moore Vice President of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we'll review Reynolds American's results for the third quarter and first nine months as well as our revised full-year outlook.
As usual our discussion will include adjusted results as management believes this provides better perspective on our underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of reported to adjusted earnings is in our press release which is available on our website at reynoldsamerican.com.
Joining me this morning are RAI's President and CEO Susan Cameron and Andrew Gilchrist our CFO.
The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements.
When we talk about future results or events a number of factors could generate results that are materially different from our projections today.
These factors include but are not limited to items detailed in our press release and SEC filings.
Except as provided by federal securities laws we are not required to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Susan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Morris and good morning everyone.
As you know it was a very busy quarter for us.
And I'd like to start today with Reynolds American's results which wrapped up a very strong first nine months.
Our net sales earnings and margins were all significantly higher in the third quarter driven by excellent performance at our operating companies and the impact of Newport's addition to the R.J.
Reynolds portfolio.
Adjusted industry cigarette volumes declined by 0.8% in the quarter with continued growth in the premium cigarette category.
In the moist-snuff category the environment remains competitive and adult consumers continue to move back and forth between the various tobacco categories modestly impacting the growth in moist-snuff volume.
As I said before our operating companies have a key advantage in offering a diversified product portfolio across tobacco categories with a range of distinctive brands at different price points and this broad portfolio is also aligned with the key consumer macro trends that are driving brand choice.
In addition our company's strategy is to maximize the performance of the entire portfolio with each of their key brand playing a distinctive role.
Our companies are successfully managing this dynamic interplay between categories and between their key brands and RAI is benefiting greatly from it.
Of course a major highlight of the quarter with the significant momentum on the Newport brand and a significant contribution to R.J.
Reynolds profitability.
The integration of Newport which was acquired in June continues to go very well.
The reciprocal contract manufacturing with ITG will continue until later next year but the transfer of equipment to the Tobaccoville facility is well underway.
Under the route to market agreement no changes can be made to existing retail contracts until the middle of next month.
The R.J.
Reynolds is currently selling in new retail contracts and we are confident that Newport's expanded presence will drive further growth on the brand.
The company's marketing and sales teams are also very focused on doing the necessary consumer research on Newport and identifying additional revenue opportunities for the brand as well as for the company's other growth brands Camel and Pall Mall.
Our employees are doing a great job with Newport's integration and we are very happy with the way things are progressing.
Before I give you more details on our operating performance I'd like to update you on VUSE e-cigarettes and then I'll cover a number of other recent developments.
RJR Vapor's VUSE Digital Vapor Cigarette continued to perform well in the third quarter and increased its number one share position in the C-store channel.
At the end of last month four additional styles of VUSE cartridges were made available nationally.
The brand now offers crema mint berry and chai in addition to the existing original and menthol style.
Adult smokers have told our company's consumer engagement team that they are interested in having more options in addition to the traditional tobacco flavors because they say that this could help them to switch to a smoke-free alternative like VUSE.
Offering adult vapors a variety of options to consider is very much in line with our company's commitment to driving innovation which is a key part of our transforming tobacco strategy.
VUSE continues to invest in the development of a robust pipeline of innovation and we'll be giving you more details on that at our Investor Day presentation in London and New York in November.
As we announced late last month manufacturing operation for VUSE has been consolidated at R.J.
Reynolds' Tobaccoville facility in line with the services agreement between R.J.
Reynolds and RJR Vapor.
And this will increase efficiencies as the vapor category and VUSE continue to develop.
Moving onto some of the other headlines.
In September we announced the proposed sale of the Natural American Spirit business outside the U.S.
to the JT Group for $5 billion.
We believe it's a great deal.
It will allow our companies to focus on brand growth here at home or the strength of JT Group's international capabilities will support the tremendous growth potential for Natural American Spirit overseas.
I should note that this transaction still have to be approved by regulatory authorities in a number of countries but that's expected to happen by early next year and the transaction should close shortly thereafter.
Another development was the signing of a technology sharing term sheet between R.J.
Reynolds and British American Tobacco which provides a framework for collaboration and mutual cross-licensing of vapor product technologies through 2022.
The companies are still negotiating specifics of the agreement and they expect to reach a definitive contract by the end of this year.
In addition R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe reached a settlement last week with the State of New York on the NPM disputed payments.
The settlement resolves NPM adjustment claims encompassing 11 years and puts in place a new method of determining future adjustments from 2015 forward.
We are very pleased to have reached a resolution on this longstanding dispute with New York.
And as a result the companies will receive significant value for the impact to their brands resulting from manufacturers who are not subject to the obligations of the Master Settlement Agreement.
R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe will continue to pursue resolution of their NPM disputed payment claim against the remaining 27 states and other jurisdictions that have not yet settled with the companies.
As you know there have also been developments on the regulatory front.
In response to the FDA ruling that four of R.J.
Reynolds cigarette style are not substantially equivalent to their respective predicate products the company immediately stopped sales and notified trade partners of appropriate steps to stop further distribution marketing and promotion of those products.
R.J.
Reynolds took the same action on Camel White styles because the products have the same characteristics as the Pall Mall styles impacted by the ruling.
I'd remind you that these cigarette styles represent a very small portion of R.J.
Reynolds business and we believe R.J.
Reynolds brands will capture the majority of volume from the discontinued styles.
Let me reiterate that the company strongly disagrees with the FDA's ruling and is still examining all of its options.
Now let's start the rest of our quarterly discussion beginning with traditional cigarettes.
Total RAI company's domestic cigarette volumes increased 29.5% in the third quarter significantly benefiting from the addition of Newport.
Overall cigarette industry volume declined 2.2% for the quarter; when adjusted for wholesale inventory changes industry shipments were down about 0.8%.
Total RAI operating company's domestic retail market share also increased in the quarter by 0.3 of a percentage point to almost 34%.
Focusing for a minute on R.J.
Reynolds I'm very pleased to report that the third quarter was very strong for the company.
Adjusted operating income and margin were significantly higher driven by an increase of over 30% in the company's cigarette shipments.
I'd note that R.J.
Reynolds' retail market share is presented on a pro forma basis which reflects share information from the company's new brand portfolio following the acquisition and the related divestiture.
Reflecting these factors R.J.
Reynolds' total cigarette retail market share was down slightly from the prior-year quarter at 32%.
However the company's expanded portfolio of growth brands Newport Camel and Pall Mall added 0.2 of a percentage point in combined retail market share to 29.4% for the quarter.
These brands now make up about 92% of the company's total cigarette market share.
Even with the standstill and restrictions that I mentioned earlier Newport is showing excellent momentum with third quarter share of retail shipments increasing 0.5 percentage point from the prior-year quarter to 13.3%.
Camel's retail market share performance held steady in the quarter at 8.3% and the company remains focused on initiatives to build the brand's equity.
Performance of R.J Reynolds' Pall Mall value brand reflected the company's continued balance between share and profitability.
The brand's retail market share was down 0.3 of a percentage point at 7.8% in the third quarter and was flat sequentially.
As I'm sure you noticed in today's release Santa Fe drove performance to new heights in the third quarter with double-digit growth in volume and operating income.
The company's highly profitable Natural American Spirit brand is successfully broadening awareness and trial beyond its traditional strong markets in the Western U.S.
and the brand reported retail market share of 1.9% for the quarter.
That was up 0.3 percentage point from the prior-year quarter.
And Natural American Spirit's distinctive natural tobacco styles grew volume by almost 20%.
Now turning to moist-snuff and American Snuff's continued solid performance in a competitive market.
The company again increased operating income with its flagship Grizzly brand delivering higher volume and retail market share.
American Snuff grew total moist-snuff volume by 4.4% which again outpaced industry growth of about 2.5% for the quarter.
As a result the company's moist-snuff retail market share was up 1.3 percentage points from the prior-year quarter at 33.7%.
Grizzly delivered third quarter retail market share growth of 1.4 percentage points to almost 31% and that was on volume growth of 4.6%.
I'm pleased to say that Grizzly's reputation for offering innovative products continues.
The brand's Dark Wintergreen style which was expanded nationally in March is performing very well.
So all in all RAI's third quarter and nine months have gone extremely well and we continue to deliver excellent total shareholder returns.
And I'm especially pleased with the way that Newport's integration is progressing.
So now I'll turn the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Susan and good morning everyone.
Reynolds American and its operating companies had a great quarter which included Newport's first full quarterly contribution earnings and this resulted in a very successful first nine months.
RAI increased third quarter reported EPS by 4.5% from the prior-year quarter to $0.46.
On an adjusted basis third quarter EPS was $0.55 up 17% from the prior-year quarter.
These results were supported by higher pricing and volumes across the board the expiration of the federal tobacco-quota buyout as well as continuous productivity improvements.
Adjusted EPS excludes a charge of $0.04 per share for implementation costs and a charge of $0.05 per share for asset impairment and exit costs related to the consolidation of VUSE's manufacturing operations.
RAI's nine month reported EPS was $2.45 about double the prior-year period.
On an adjusted basis nine-month EPS was $1.50 up more than 18%.
Adjusted EPS excludes the items I've just mentioned as well as the gain on the divestiture a benefit from the 2003 NPM adjustment claim charges for transaction-related and financing costs Engle Progeny cases and tobacco-related and other litigation.
RAI's third quarter adjusted operating margin jumped by 6.4 percentage points to almost 44.5%.
Now I'll turn to our operating companies' performance where I'll discuss adjusted results where applicable.
Please refer to the schedules at the end of our earnings release for reconciliations from our GAAP to adjusted results.
As Susan said R.J.
Reynolds performed very well in the third quarter with higher cigarette pricing and the expiration of the federal tobacco-quota buyout benefiting the bottom line in addition to Newport's contribution.
The company's reported operating income was $1.1 billion.
Adjusted operating income increased by 64.6% from the prior-year quarter to $1.2 billion.
For the nine months R.J.
Reynolds' reported operating income was $2.4 billion.
Nine-month adjusted operating income increased by more than 35% to $2.7 billion.
The company's third quarter operating margin grew by 5.1 percentage points to 46.7%.
And as Susan mentioned the company's third quarter cigarette shipments were up 30.2% from the prior-year quarter.
Wholesale inventory levels for the industry were approximately 7.6 billion units at the end of third quarter up about 600 million from the prior-year quarter.
R.J.
Reynolds' inventories of approximately $2.3 billion were in line with the preceding quarter reflecting the normalized level of the new cigarette portfolio.
Before I move on to Santa Fe I'd like to highlight the favorable impact from the settlement between the participating manufacturers in the state of New York on the NPM disputed payments.
As a result of the settlement R.J.
Reynolds and Santa Fe will receive credits currently estimated to be approximately $290 million that will be applied to the company's MSA payments over the next four years for its adjusted claims relating to the years 2004 through 2014.
Additionally the company may also receive credits based on a sliding scale key to the volume of non-state-excise-tax paid tribal sales in New York during the relevant market year.
I'd note that since 2012 R.J.
Reynolds has reached settlements in 24 jurisdictions on NPM adjustment claims related to the company's Master Settlement Agreement payments.
Now moving on to Santa Fe.
Higher pricing and volume also boosted Santa Fe's earnings and the company increased operating income by more than 23% from the prior-year quarter to $120 million.
That brought nine-month operating income to $337 million which was up almost 37%.
Santa Fe's third quarter operating margin also rose by 0.7 percentage point to more than 55%.
It's worth noting that for the nine months the company reported operating margin of 55.5%.
Now let's turn to American Snuff.
The company increased third quarter operating income 3.4% to $121 million as higher pricing and volume more than offset the timing of marketing support activity.
For the first nine months operating income rose almost 12.5% to $369 million.
American Snuff's operating margin remained strong at 57.5% for the quarter.
Before I turn to the Q&amp;A there are some other important items I want to mention.
In line with the company's commitment to deleverage as quickly as possible while maintaining financial flexibility we plan to pay down $450 million in debt that matures on Friday.
At the end of the third quarter our total long-term debt was $17 billion.
I'd note again that we have a very manageable debt portfolio which carries an average interest rate of 4.5% with an average maturity of 12.1 years.
The company ended the quarter with cash balances of $2.9 billion.
We remain deeply committed to returning value to our shareholders.
And in that vein I'd remind you of our two-for-one stock split in August as well as the most recent 7.5% dividend increase.
So that finishes up a highly successful year-to-date.
And as a result we're tightening our full year adjusted earnings guidance to a range of $1.94 per share to $2 per share.
Please note that this adjusted earnings guidance excludes all the items I mentioned at the beginning of my discussion.
Thank you.
Now we'll turn to the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator would you remind our callers how to get into the queue? Your first question comes from Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Bill.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I actually just wanted to drill in a little bit actually on the technology-sharing agreement with BAT that you discussed.
I don't believe that this agreement includes the heat-not-burn technology if I'm not mistaken.
So I just wanted to check on that.
And then in the past you've kind of alluded towards developing maybe a Revo 2.0 or Eclipse 2.0 product and I was curious with the high hurdle to get a product like that maybe in the U.S.
with the FDA restrictions any reason why that wouldn't be included in this agreement with BAT and then maybe something you could look to sell internationally to get it off the ground? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Bill.
The companies are still working out the definitive agreement.
The top line term sheet was very much focused on vapor.
Certainly we are open to discussions when it comes to heat-not-burn.
And you're not wrong in the context of using some of the innovation that we've already developed in heat-not-burn outside the U.S.
will be quicker than getting it through our own FDA.
So those possibilities are all still open to us.
We're hoping to come to a definitive agreement by year-end and of course we'll share the specifics with you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Bill.
Your next question comes from Owen Bennett with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Owen.
Morning.
Hey.
So firstly I was just wondering what changes you have been able to put into place with regards to driving the sub-prime synergies of Camel and Newport bearing in mind the marketing restrictions.
Or are the share gains that we are seeing is that just the existing underlying momentum before any change is put into place? And then secondly how are you progressing with the cost saves? And can you give an estimate of how much you expect to deliver in the current year? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll take the first one.
We're delighted with Newport's momentum.
It does seem to be accelerating you're right I mean up 0.5 share point over year-over-year.
And we've not been able to change the merchandising.
So as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we are very encouraged that as we are selling in these retail contracts that we'll be able to build this momentum once these contracts go into place.
And remember the contracts will probably take three months to four months to set on a national basis beginning in mid-November.
Really I would attribute the current momentum yes the brand came to us with natural momentum but remember we doubled the sales force overnight.
And so I believe there's just more feet on the street looking out after Newport.
And I'll hand over to Andrew on the synergies.
Yeah.
On the cost savings we're on track as we've talked about $800 million worth of synergies we've got $300 million we anticipate achieving over the first 18 months of the deal so we're on track with that.
There's obviously continued efforts to try and accelerate and improve that number we've incentivized the entire workforce to continue to look for those synergies and cost savings across the board.
So we're on track; we feel good about that.
We haven't provided a number for this year but I would say that majority of that $300 million is actually back ended as that volume transitions out of the former Lorillard factory now owned by ITG and into our larger facility in Tobaccoville.
Okay.
Thanks very much guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Owen.
Your next question comes from Vivien Azer with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Vivien.
Good morning.
So I recognize that we're still waiting for regulatory approval on the sale of Natural American Spirit outside of the United States but can you give us some color on how we should think about the opportunity to de-lever the balance sheet and the implications for returning cash to shareholders please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll just start and then turn it over to Andrew as necessary.
I think you're absolutely right.
We do have these regulatory approvals.
We do expect it to close early in the new year.
And I think we've sort of stated our commitment to returning value to shareholders and our priorities to de-lever.
We are not prepared at this stage to give specifics to those dollars but we will certainly be coming forward with that as we approach the close.
Yeah.
I think I would just add we're obviously looking at the different options.
It's a good problem to have and we're going to be looking at that and we'll come forward when we have something specific to talk about.
Terrific.
Thank you.
And then a question on the substantial equivalents and your decision to pull Camel White's voluntarily; do you feel like there's anything else in the system that could be at risk or do you feel like you've cleaned up the portfolio from an SE perspective? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly from those SE rulings Vivien we are totally clean.
Those Camel White styles had the same characteristics as the ruling on the Pall Mall styles.
And so that was a decision that we took.
And as I stated we disagree with the ruling.
We look forward to working with the FDA on the process and we'll see where we go from here.
But certainly we are clean and as you know that combined market share was about 0.34% (26:46) and as I stated we do expect that we will recapture most of that volume with other styles in the family.
Terrific.
That's very helpful.
If I could just squeeze in one last one obviously industry volumes continue to track very well.
Susan on the last call you indicated that you thought industry volumes could be down 2%.
So I was wondering if you could update that.
And additionally if you could offer any commentary at all on the volume trends that you're seeing in Hawaii just because of the implementation of the new legal purchase age please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll say – as we saw the quarter was down 2.2% 0.8% on adjusted basis.
When we think about it we are expecting – if you look back over the years and during the recessionary period where people were mixing down we saw 3% to 4% of cigarette declines and in the really strong years we've seen it – like this year it's been particularly strong where the economy – we've had very good economic tailwinds for our consumers.
But probably the average of this 2% to 4% decline rate is where we should look as we go forward and obviously we'll report on that every quarter.
We have not yet been able to dissect Hawaii.
As you know it's a very small state and we'll certainly look at those results.
What's interesting and the perspective on that is that we have worked with the states for years to reduce underage smoking and we've been very successful getting laws in place.
The vast majority of volume that is used by underage is bought for them by adults.
So the outcome of the 21 versus 18 I don't think we can see anything yet with that.
There are better ways to address it.
But having said that that's the state's call but we will be following that and obviously we'll be following if there's any other momentum as we go forward.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Vivien.
Your next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Judy.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
So Andrew I actually have a few detailed questions around the deal impacts.
So first just in terms of the impact of acquisition sized divestitures on volume and net pricing? Yeah.
Judy we have some estimates and I'm happy to share it's going be just that though an estimate.
Obviously this gets more difficult as we go forward in terms of really assessing where we would have been versus where we are.
But on the volume side our estimate is about 5%.
Okay.
And then any color on revenue or pricing? Yeah.
On pricing if you look at our numbers our net pricing for the quarter was about 14%.
I think if you take out the acquisition and the mix we would be in that similar position as we were in the first half which was right around 6%.
Okay.
And then on the COGS side so I guess I'm just trying to understand how the cost transfer to Imperial would have shown up in the quarter because if I sort of look back at your base RJR or Reynolds' COGS and then add Lorillard's COGS I'm getting kind of a $574 million or $590 million.
So pretty similar level excluding the settlement payments and excise taxes and so forth.
So how should we think about that $500 million COGS transfer that would have shown up in the quarter as a result of the Imperial transaction? Yeah.
I think that's right; so the costs essentially have come out of the business that's $500 million on an annualized basis of course.
So we're basically tracking right on that.
So the impact from the additional synergies that we talked about as I said earlier will be back-ended.
There are some that will show up this year but it's going to be minimal.
The majority of the first year – first full year synergies will come in the second six months as the volume transitions out of the Lorillard facility.
Okay.
Okay.
And then Susan just a question about Camel franchise and I know that you've talked about your efforts to improve the brand equity of that franchise but just wanted to see if you can kind of point to what you're doing more specifically if you look at some of the share trends obviously it's been a little bit softer in the context of the growing premium segment so what do you think is causing a little bit of that softness and kind of what are you doing exactly to drive better growth in the Camel franchise? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We are actually pleased with Camel's performance.
Of course it did take a little hit this quarter from those SE – those non-equivalent styles.
So that did have a small impact on the Camel brand with Camel Bold and the Camel White style.
So we feel good about Camel.
We are very excited about the new retail contracts for Camel which I know goes beyond the equity exploration but we are excited about the expanded presence for Camel on the Eastern side of the U.S.
which will start in November.
So the whole industry has mixed up a bit premium is up certainly year-over-year and of course we benefited substantially with NAS and Newport and Camel's held its own.
So we are working as Debra talked about I think at the last time we met at an Investor Day at looking at how that family will present itself going forward and making sure that we have the most relevant styles but we continue to be pleased with Camel menthol's performance Camel Crush performance and that the family is in good shape.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Nik Modi with RBC Capital Markets? Oh sorry about that guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Nik.
Yeah I forgot that mute button.
So two questions.
Smokeless just wanted to get some context kind of what's going on in the category.
Looks like volumes have rebounded nicely but pricing was negative so just state of the union there and how long that will continue? And then just the big picture question on e-cigarettes I see the other line is still in negative territory.
I know you guys said that you'll continue to spend as you see fit so just curious on the strategy there.
I mean are you seeing competitors – exit the market and so you feel like there's a window of opportunity to kind of consolidate the shelf.
Any perspective you can share on the strategy behind the e-cig spend? Thanks.
Very good.
Nik I'll take I guess first shot at the question.
With regard to American Snuff Company obviously we showed an adjusted operating income of 3.4%.
A lot of that was driven by timing of marketing activity.
And if you go back and you look historically we've had some ups and downs by the quarter but really I think I'd point you back to the year-to-date of 12.4% we're very happy with that.
Some of this was just a matter of timing in terms of some of our marketing expense.
So nothing beyond that.
We feel very good about the volumes obviously coming through and I would look at the year-to-date as the more – a better indicator of sort of where we are with the business.
With regard to the electronic cigarettes and VUSE yes so we've seen some improvements there obviously we're focused on productivity improvements.
We've consolidated the operations.
All of that is moving in that direction.
But as we've talked about previously we want to be prudent with our investments.
We certainly want to invest based on the opportunity that we see in the marketplace.
And there are certainly opportunities long-term for this category.
I think we've been prudent.
We're now number one in the C-store channel by a significant margin.
We continue to take market share from our competitors.
And I think we're going to continue to read the market and see what opportunities present themselves.
Great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Of course I'd remind you this quarter we did launch the four new flavors and we're getting some enthusiastic response.
And of course that gives VUSE a slightly stronger footprint at retail.
And you do see retailers consolidating certainly the categories certainly traditional retailers.
And so we're investing prudently but it's important that VUSE remain the – we said that our objective was to be the vapor authority and then to invest in other innovative products for consumers down the pipeline is also important.
And then keep in mind the numbers that you're looking at do include close to $100 million of cost that were associated with the consolidation of facilities.
Got you.
And if I can ask just one more question in terms of the take up of the new contracts that you guys will be launching in November when will you have a good understanding of what the take-up rate is for those contracts? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The way these work we're pleased with the results so far.
It's not uncommon at all that a lot comes flurrying in in the last two weeks.
So I think the cut-off day is November 15.
And so we will certainly know more.
Certainly as we come into our investor days that are set up for November we will have much more clarity but we are encouraged.
And of course as you know it's public that Newport is part of our EDLP contract and so retailers are evaluating their participation based on their business model.
So we will be able to update further in a couple of weeks.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Nik.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up Andrew with something I think you just said a minute ago that the VUSE costs included about $100 million from consolidating production.
Was that in the quarter or year-to-date? And is that a number you've excluded as part of adjusted or is that in the adjusted number? Yeah that's in the quarter.
So of the $127 million loss and all other that's in the quarter and that is an adjustment that we have made for third quarter so that does come out.
Okay.
All right.
No problem.
And then just wanted to talk a little bit about Pall Mall last quarter especially you were talking about some of the focus on driving trial and conversion there.
Obviously it's held share sequentially but could you give a sense of some of (39:00) how you feel like that progress is going? Do you expect share gains to return there or do you think that that's sort of a necessary spend to hold share with some – the new competitive environment or how do you think about that brand and what your marketing efforts are likely to give you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Michael.
As we said and as you pointed out it was flat quarter-over-quarter.
So this 0.3% was lost actually early on in the year and at the back-end of last year.
Now – and remember that the whole industry the premium mix is improving.
And so as consumers have traded up to premium and of course we benefit significantly now with Newport as well as NAS and Camel in the portfolio.
So we feel that Pall Mall is playing its role.
We are happy with its market share performance.
It's important to have a strong value property because the economics can change and people can start down trading to a value brand.
But we are very happy with Pall Mall and we do believe actually that as we expand these EDLP contracts these merchandising contracts beginning next month the Pall Mall will benefit from that because it will be the every-day-low-price brand in more stores.
And so we will obviously update that as we go through the first quarter.
But we don't expect Pall Mall to continue to decline but of course we also like the premiumization of the category.
So we are happy with that balance of profit and share as we speak.
No.
That's helpful.
And just back on Camel White can you describe a little bit more on what the similarities were with the NFC (40.42) products? Is it menthol level? Is it the filter? What is it that made you think – it made sense to proactively go ahead and pull that instead of maybe just even waiting until – if the FDA hadn't done something yet were you convinced that they were going to get around to it or what was your thinking around all that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes and yes.
The thinking was the characteristics of Camel White across the board the product was the same as the Pall Mall style.
And therefore our determination was what the FDA ruled on was that product versus its predicate and so it was beholden and prudent on our side to take that product off the market and that's what we did.
And as I said we disagree with the ruling and we want to understand this process and we're pursuing all of our options.
But that was the right decision and that's why we took Camel White out.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi everyone.
Good morning Matt.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Thanks.
So just two questions.
First two clarifications I guess for Andrew and then just one follow-up.
So Andrew I just wanted to come back to the inventory numbers and the sort of underlying volume numbers you talked about earlier.
You mentioned that inventory at the industry level was up about 600 million units year-on-year...
That's right.
...but then industry volumes were down 80 basis points versus reported industry volumes down 2.2% which would suggest the year-on-year inventory reduction.
So I guess could you just help me reconcile those numbers does that just having trouble squaring those two? Yeah.
So the inventory change obviously is versus last year's third quarter obviously when we look at the third quarter volume performance that looks at the inventory adjustments within the quarter.
Okay.
So I'd be happy to take that offline and we can work through that with you but...
Okay.
...obviously the 600 million units versus the third quarter last year.
Okay.
I'll take another look and follow up offline as well.
And then inventory levels generally they are still quite a bit higher than they were at Q1.
Should we think of them as being somewhat normalized now or are they still at elevated levels overall? I would say our inventory is normalized for the new portfolio as you look at that today.
The industry looks to be elevated versus year end last year for sure.
Okay.
And then just the 5% underlying volume number you mentioned earlier could you just clarify what that represents? Yeah that's basically just an estimate of the impact of the acquisition so 5% additional volume in the quarter.
Again and I do want to highlight this because it is an estimate and it's something that's going to get more difficult as we go forward as changes in all of these products occur.
But we are trying to track and make sure that we are achieving all of the synergies and looking at are we getting the impact from the acquisition that we anticipated.
We're right on track.
Synergies are coming in.
The volumes are coming in.
We're very happy with the performance in Newport in the third quarter.
And I think the 5% is an estimate that we're looking at in terms of impact of the acquisition on the volumes.
Okay.
Thanks Andrew.
And then just a broader question about the competitive environment in full flavor menthol I think there is some new line extensions coming to market in the next several weeks.
So just any observations; are you seeing any increase in competitive intensity during this initial period of ownership when you're still updating your trade contracts? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's really stayed competitive and of course we have honored all of Lorillard's commitments to the retailers.
We have put in money where we thought that was necessary and of course we're going into our new contract period and Newport will be featured in more stores.
But the premium menthol space has been very competitive for quite a long time.
And of course Camel from our portfolio has been battling it out with our friends in Richmond forever and now of course we have Newport in our stable.
So we are very confident and we haven't seen any changes in the segment overall.
That segment is still strong and it's still growing.
So we'll see how that unfolds as the new contracts come into place and whatever new styles may be coming.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you both.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Chris.
Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just have a couple of follow-ups for you if I could.
I just wanted to get a better sense and not so much around 4Q or even 1Q but once the new retail contracts are in place I assume you're going to tell me that both Newport and Camel should benefit from that one.
I'm trying to get a sense of is one benefiting more than the other? You have the sort of the new customers or new accounts that perhaps Camel could benefit from on the East Coast and likewise Newport could benefit from Camel contracts – off Camel.
Is there one that benefits more than the other or one maybe you don't want to change too much like those existing Newport customers perhaps you won't see as much change there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think they both will benefit.
There is no doubt.
Now Newport in absolute terms is a bigger brand where it is big.
But I really am excited as we've shown you the math where we get a very balanced national market share although it is made up of different parts of our portfolio and therefore the merchandising opportunities to give Camel some space in the Northeast and give Newport some more space in the West they will both benefit from that.
In their stronghold in the middle of the country perhaps where neither of them – there may not be as much benefit because they're both sort of there.
But I do believe on the coast that both brands will benefit.
And from retail presence from merchandising from the display and where that display is located I think there is quite a bit of opportunity.
And I know our trade marketing guys can't wait to get started resetting the racks and so we look forward to that unfolding over the next few months.
I would just add that I also think Pall Mall will benefit particularly on the East Coast given some of the new contracts that we've picked up with the Lorillard business as well as our new contract with Newport included should benefit Pall Mall as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Are there expenses we should be aware of in relation to the implementation of the new contracts around Q4 Just wanted to make sure were sensitive to any kind of initial costs that may be associated with this? No nothing out of the ordinary.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I just had a quick question if I could on Pall Mall.
If you were to characterize the promotional spending for Pall Mall was it down in the quarter year-over-year? Is that one of the factors that's leading to at least the year-over-year adjustment in – or reduction in market share? No really nothing has changed on that front.
We continue to have strong price realization on Pall Mall but the promotion and the discounting levels of Pall Mall have been fairly consistent.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And that's really why we pointed out that it has been flat quarter-over-quarter.
We lost this market share on Pall Mall partly leading up to the acquisition when we needed to put support dollars behind Winston Salem and KOOL.
And so that is when some of that share was lost.
And then as I talked about the whole sector is trading up a bit.
So we're happy with where Pall Mall is and there's no real change to promotional strategy.
Yeah.
And just to reiterate I think that's really what's driving Pall Mall is the environment has improved and that's why you're seeing the trading up and it is having some impact on Pall Mall but it's not something that we're chasing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you so much for taking the question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Priya.
Inc.</span></strong> I realize it's going to take some time before you are comfortable discussing the use of proceeds from Natural American Spirit and the International transaction.
However I was hoping you might be able to give us a little bit of perspective on how you think about potentially going about your deleveraging plans in conjunction with that.
So as you think about your near-term maturity profile is sort of getting rid of that going to be more beneficial than potentially looking at the interest expense savings that might result from addressing some of your longer dated bonds that have a higher coupon? And then also how do you think about sort of pricing on some of those bonds since taking up the front-end maturities could potentially be cheaper from a cost perspective versus the longer dated? Thank you.
Yeah.
At this point I think it's premature.
We're certainly going to be looking at all of the options in the use of the cash that will come in.
But I think at this point it's just premature to get into all of those sorts of discussions.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Should we still be thinking about around $2.5 billion maybe $2.75 billion of debt reduction as the objective over the next couple of years understanding that you guys are taking $450 million out in coming days? Yeah.
Well ultimately the objective really is to get back to our balance sheet metrics that we feel are consistent with our investment-grade profile.
So we're looking at a leverage ratio of – as we've said we want to operate between 1.5 times to 2.5 times.
So that is really what we've been looking at.
Obviously prior to this announcement we talked about getting to 3 times within 24 months.
Certainly that is still on our roadmap and certainly looking to get that achieved and we'll be looking at the options to use the cash from the sale of the International business and we'll have something more to speak to you probably down the road.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Tim Milway with BlackRock.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Regarding the NPM settlement with New York involving the credits for tribal sales for years 2011 through 2014 payments of $90 million were based on 150 million packs at $0.60 per pack.
Is that 150 million number based on actual sales? I'm trying to get a feel for what the credits are going to be going forward.
At this point I'm not sure.
I'd probably have to get more detail on that.
Probably we can take that offline if you want to reach out to Morris after the call.
I'm not sure...
Okay.
...I've got that specifically at hand here.
Okay.
I'll do that.
Another question regarding the new four flavors for your VUSE brand what are your expectations regarding the FDA in flavors going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well as I'm sure you've read the deeming regs have gone to the OMB.
And so we don't know what they are yet and that means they could come out soon or not.
But we look forward to those deeming regs and we will see what their position is across the categories that we're waiting to hear.
So it may be – they will come out in due course and we'll keep you posted.
Okay.
And just lastly you've been talking about a up-branding to more of the premium brands.
Could you try to quantify that as far as what percentage you're seeing increase from the discounts to the premiums? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think if we look over a year ago the premium are at 1.4% up versus a year ago.
The premium mix is 71.4% and a year ago it was 70%.
So we continue to see that inching up.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your final question comes from Michael Lavery with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
I just have a follow-up to Judy and Matthew's question and sorry if I'm missing something.
But you said that your volumes in the quarter total company basis were up 29.5% but then you're only giving 5 points of that to the acquisition.
What's the missing piece? Am I looking at the right parts there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean...
You know what Michael; I'll take that offline with you if that's okay.
I'll have to go back and see what you're looking at and what I'm looking at as well.
Yeah.
Okay.
That'd be great.
It's all right no problem.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Michael.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Moore I turn the conference back over to you.
Thank you again for joining our call.
If you have any additional questions please feel free to contact us at Investor Relations.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.