[Operator Instructions] And first on the line is Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
I don't know whether we should talk a little bit about gallows humor for a moment but I won't go there gentlemen.
I was hoping maybe we'd get a different outcome on the second time we heard the call.
But maybe we could talk about cash flow.
And I want to put it in context for half a second.
You've stuck to the plan on deferred on the 78.
And that should be a fairly impressive improvement year-over-year call it $2 billion in rough numbers.
Yet and then you also raised the dividend fairly significantly in the fourth quarter.
And you have a plan typically I think it is to buy back about or distribute to shareholders about 80% of your cash flow.
So there seems to be a little bit of a disconnect there.
And I hate to ask you to be a little bit granular on this Greg but could you walk through some of the moving pieces please? On operating cash Howard? Yes please.
Yeah I mean if you look at kind of walking from 2015 to 2016 obviously improved performance as you indicated improved performance specifically on 787 cash.
Some of the things that I'll say kind of a headwind going into 2016 offsetting some of that is certainly higher cash tax payments as we improve our unit cost and performance on the 787.
So we'll have some of that headwind in this year.
And remember last year we had a lot of C-17 receipts as we sold the bulk of the final aircraft.
And obviously we've got one left that we won't get those receipts this year.
And then just continuing to build inventory on the tanker as we get ready to deliver that in 2017.
And as Dennis indicated we've had a very successful milestone there recently.
So that's going well.
And then of course you've got the MAX transition going on.
So those are some of the big moving pieces.
And at the same time the long term kind of view on cash flow remains unchanged Howard.
We expect that to continue to grow.
That's driven by again the improved productivity but also the production rates that we've committed to.
As Dennis indicated we're going up on 37 beyond what we described earlier up to 57 a month in 2019.
But we also have a number of other rate increases in there on the 37 building to that as well as 787 as I said tracking well to 12 a month with a plan to go to 14.
So as we look at it over the long term we don't see a different view.
As far as committing to return cash to shareholders as you indicated we have $14 billion of authorization and we plan to use it as we have the prior authorization.
And we're committed to returning cash to shareholders in the fashion that you've seen over the last couple of years going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the production rate moves you've done and in particular the effects that they've had or will have on the booking rates in terms of margins.
Yeah.
With particular on the 777 given your current program effectively extends only for the current generation.
So if you can walk through the 47 cut the 777 cut what it means to the margins and then maybe the 37 and wrap it all into if there were any moves on the 87.
Thanks.
Yeah the production rates that we talked about the 47 coming down and the 777 going to seven a month in 2017 that's all in this quarter's booking rate.
Okay.
So that's all been accounted for in there.
Combined with the investment for the 37 some of that to go up to 57 out in the 2019 timeframe.
So that's all been taken into account in this quarter's booking rates.
And the only clarification on that seven a month on the 777 that's going to be equal to deliveries that production is equal to deliveries of no in terms of 777Xs or anything like that [indiscernible]? In 2017 it's seven a month.
As we get into 2018 obviously we'll start to build some test aircraft and get ready for the flight test program.
And then very similar to what you've seen on the 787-8 transitioning to the 9.
We'll see some longer flow times and learning associated with those early units.
And those will obviously have some impact in the 2018 timeframe.
But again taking all that into consideration as you look at the top line and then look at the cash flow going forward we expect to continue to grow.
That's what's assumed.
Okay.
Thanks again.
Okay.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
So you said that the 787 deferred would be about 200 in the first quarter and then down as you go through the year.
And yet it looks like the last two quarters were little bit better than expected.
Yeah.
What are the chances that it could be better than that? And what sort of a profile of decline should we look for as we look ahead? And similarly on R&amp;D it on the other hand looks a little higher than maybe some of us thought this year.
What sort of profile should we look for R&amp;D as we think out to 2017 and 2018? Yeah Cai on R&amp;D as you saw we came in a little light on 2015 to what we had guided some of that.
It was just timing moving into 2016.
And obviously the bulk of that is 777X which is actually performing very well to schedule and to cost as we get ready for that entry into service further out in 2020 timeframe.
So that spending is going to start to ramp up here.
But I think for the next couple years Cai you're going to see kind of flattish R&amp;D.
And again that's just some movement between 777X and then 10X winding down.
So that's how we see it going forward.
On deferred you're right.
We have had some good performance there in the last couple of quarters and we've assumed some of that going into the balance of this year.
So we see similar growth as I indicated in the first quarter.
And then that will start to moderate.
And again we see that declining shortly after we hit that 12 a month further out into this year.
So obviously it continues to be a big focus area.
But the team has done a very good job.
And we're assuming additional productivity again through the balance of from 2015 into the balance of 2016.
Cai I think it's reiterating the fact that that profile that Greg just described is completely consistent with what we shared with you previously.
And part of our theme here is meeting the commitments and promises that we talked about.
So 787 getting to be 4Q cash positive out-performing on deferred production inventory meeting the profile that we talked about delivering $9.4 billion of cash in the year.
As you see our guide $10 billion of cash in this year conveys to you our strong cash growth story and we remain confident in that.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to dig a little deeper into the 737 and the rate increase announcement up to 57.
Can you provide some more color on the assumptions under that in terms of retirements or any change in your expectations for mix replacement versus capacity underneath the assumptions in the rate increase? Yeah we continue to see a fundamental strength in the marketplace.
So as you just pointed out stepping up to 57 a month in 2019 just continues the trend of confidence that we see in the narrow-body marketplace.
In particular we continue to see strong long-term passenger growth at 6% to 7% a year that is global in nature.
We're seeing that in all of our different market sectors and across all of our different 737 model lines.
All of that is telling us that continuing to ramp up production to keep supply and demand imbalance is the right thing to do.
And as you know we're very diligent about these rate ramp ups.
We make these decisions with a long-term perspective and this conveys our confidence in the long-term market and what we're seeing in narrow-body growth.
So our plans right now as we transition to the MAX during this coming year we step up to our 47 a month as planned in 2017 52 a month in 2018 and now stepping to 57 a month in 2019 all of that being buttressed with our long-term view of the – of passenger growth.
Do you assume Dennis – I appreciate it – do you assume the retirements maybe pick up again after being down so much here in 2015 and 2014 relative to what we saw in 2010 2011 2012 and 2013? Yeah we continue to see about 40% of overall aircraft are in the replacement category so it's a combination of growth and replacement.
About 60% growth about 40% replacement on balance.
It varies a bit year-to-year region-by-region but that gives you a sense for it.
And the value proposition of our airplanes is compelling whether you're looking at replacement of old assets or the need to satisfy passenger growth.
You see that reflected in some of the just very recent customer decisions.
The Southwest Airlines announcement that was made just a week ago refers to both passenger growth as well as the compelling value proposition of fleet modernization.
And – but both of those continue to play over the long run.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hey.
Good afternoon everyone.
Good afternoon.
Hey Greg or Dennis I was just hoping you could walk us through the disconnect this year between your announced build rates and the delivery schedule or the delivery guidance that you've offered up to us.
I know we've got some inventory that's getting built on the 67.
It looks like a little bit the 37 backs.
Just wondering if that disconnect reverses next year and we actually see deliveries outstrip the build rates or the announced build rates in 2017 because you're undershooting it this year? Yeah let me add just a little color to that Jason and I'll ask Greg to add on as well.
If you take a look at this year again compared to 2015 as you well noted our delivery guidance is down about 20 aircraft.
The majority of that is in the 737 principally because of the MAX transition as we've always planned.
So we'll be building another two test aircraft this year and then we're also building ahead on MAX's that will be ultimately delivered in 2017.
But there's about a dozen aircraft in there that are 737 and related to the MAX transition as planned.
That's why you see deliveries down a bit this year.
There's also a bit of a pullback because of our announced reduction in 747 rate.
So those are the principle drivers in terms of numbers of aircraft.
Now to your point it's really important that we look at this from a long-term view.
So while we'll go through a transition in 2016 if you look at the seven rate ramp ups ahead of us and look out over the next several years you'll see that revenue will grow you'll see that deliveries will grow as we execute on the backlog and so just stepping back from a year of transition and looking out to 2017 2018 you'll see revenue growth you'll see earnings growth you'll see cash growth.
We remain very confident in that story and that's backed up by the committed rate ramp ups that we have in the plan and we're continuing to consistently execute.
So it's very important to note that this year you'll see a bit of a transition because the MAX a temporary reduction in revenue top line if you will as a result but we can tell you very clearly that our long-term view here is increasing top and bottom line performance and cash growth year-over-year.
Greg anything you want to add to that? The only thing I would add Jason is that when you're looking into next year deliveries will outpace just slightly production rates because of everything Dennis just articulated.
So this really is a point of transition and particularly on the 37.
And then obviously we talked about the 747 market.
But I think when you're thinking about the MAX coming in the production system if you think about how smoothly the Dash 9 has come into the 787-8 line.
That methodology and the process that were applied there are the exact same ones being applied here to ensure that we have smooth transition and we meet those rate increases and the commitments we made to our customers.
So it's a near term transition but absolutely the right thing to do for the long term.
And as Dennis indicated 57 a month is very healthy for us as we look at that order book and percentage sold out.
So we feel very comfortable about going up in that rate over the long term but we want to do it as we have very smoothly and very productively through each one of those increases.
And further to Greg's point that approach we've used on the Dash 8 to Dash 9 transition on the 87 using that same approach now on the MAX we'll apply that same approach as we get to 777 777X transition.
And the comments I made just a few minutes ago on our growth prospects and expectations going forward include that 777 transition and the seven per month rate during that transition that I referenced earlier.
So we take a composite view of all of the lines transitioning in the new models and the strength of the rate ups that are in the plan.
The composite of all of that leads us to top and bottom line growth and growing cash.
The 67 line will it see fewer deliveries this year than the build rate and then more next year? Yeah it will.
It will.
I think we had about 16 last year and we'll probably have about 10 this year.
It was a couple of commercial just timing on a couple deliveries.
And then we have tankers that obviously we're ramping up here and we'll complete them.
And they will deliver in 2017.
So we got that transition going on from 2015.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
You're welcome.
Thanks very much.
And good afternoon.
I wonder if we could talk a little bit more about the margins at BCA.
And you guys have talked kind of longer term about it at an aspirational level of those being much higher than kind of the 10% we were running.
But this year in the guidance is to go down to 9%.
So as we think about the moving pieces here going forward how do margins expand off this 9% level at BCA? And I know you mentioned that the 777 cut was incorporated into the program margin this quarter but do you anticipate any pressure on overall BCA profitability as that rate cut takes effect and we move into 2017? Yeah to the first part of your question our goal and aspiration for where we're headed on margins is not changed.
As we've mentioned before we are driving fundamental productivity with a target of increasing our operating margins to get into that mid-teen range.
And that remains our aspirational target.
I think it's a challenging but reasonable expectation.
And we have a number of affordability and productivity initiatives underway to achieve that.
And those are market-based.
They include our partnering for success effort with our supply chain as well as our lien and capturing the value of quality efforts within our factory spaces and our office spaces.
So that long-term target remains consistent and we'll continue to drive in that direction.
There are a few puts and takes for this year as you noted.
As Greg mentioned earlier we do have slightly higher R&amp;D this year driven primarily by 777X.
We do have lower volume on the 37 line because of the MAX transition as we mentioned earlier.
And there is some dilution of margins due to higher 87 revenue.
So all of those are factored into the guidance that we've given you for the current year.
But again our longer-term expectation is to drive productivity and head towards that mid-teen range in terms of margins.
Greg anything you want to add on? No I don't.
I know you covered it unless you have anything else Seth.
And so you would say that a double digit – when the 737 begins delivering in line with the production rate in 2017 a 777 rate of seven a month is consistent with a double digit margin at BCA? That's what we're focused on Seth.
The big factor as well as we continue to ramp up 787 and drive productivity and 787 increasing margins in that program represents a syndicate opportunity for us.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
Following up you talked about in be billed on the 37 and the 67 in 2016.
Can you maybe Greg could you maybe quantify what's baked into your free cash flow forecast? So if we look at BCA inventory less 787 what you're assuming in terms of an inventory build.
And then won't 737 MAX inventory also build in 2017 as you start to deliver the airplanes? I know you're going to be going up in rate behind that.
Thanks.
Well yeah certainly on these aircraft that we're building this year and won't deliver until next that is going to go into inventory.
But that's taken into account with the approximate $10 billion of cash flow in 2016.
So we've taken that into account.
And as we look forward in the year-over-year growth in cash flow all those kind of moving pieces on these rate transitions have also been taken into account.
Thank you.
Hey Doug.
When I look at deliveries Commercial Aircraft deliveries in 2016 guidance versus 2015 and you look at revenues they're both coming down about 2% or so.
So I wanted to understand if you were to think about the fact that you're going to actually have more attractive variance from a pricing standpoint with 787-9 and some larger 737 variance.
And then you think if you've got a little bit from escalation that you might actually see revenue do a little better than that.
When you think about it and you look at escalation pricing mix how do you see each of those moving into 2016 and then perhaps into 2017? Yeah certainly 87 with the more favorable mix on the 9s you're right.
We're going to have more revenue on a per unit basis there.
But at the same time as we said you've got the 37 transition to 67.
And then on 47 we're projecting to have lower deliveries in there.
A the production rate but we've also got some customer requests to move some of those airplanes.
So but we're taking that into account as well Doug.
So it is there's a lot of moving pieces in there obviously.
As far as escalation goes certainly that's a watch item for us as we see lower oil prices and how that will affect the booking rates going forward.
Obviously we've tried everything up for Q4 results.
But it's something we're watching.
There is obviously that escalation that's already assumed in the pricing has been taken into account in our guidance.
So again a number of moving pieces in there but it's really a lot of those transitional points on some of those programs that's offsetting some the additional 787 revenue expected.
Given that you're also your pricing is pretty much set for most everything in 2016 and 2017.
And if you put escalation aside for a moment are you looking at any pressure on pricing in those next two years? No nothing material.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Hey guys.
Just looking ahead to 2017 are we to assume that 737 deliveries are up only modestly given you'll have even more MAXs in the production system? I'm just looking maybe for some comfort that this transition into 2017 and 2018 is going to be kind of smoother and less of a headwind than it looks like it will be in 2016.
Yeah I think that's right.
I mean listen this is there's nothing more to read into this other than smooth transition into the MAX at the 42 a month rate and building those test aircraft.
So that introduction as we going into this year and then as we go further as we increase rate and bring in more MAX airplanes again I don't see that as a significant issue at this point.
I think the plans are very solid but it is some near-term transition that we'll work our way through.
But again as Dennis indicated it's the same approach that we took on the 787 and the same approach we'll take on the 777 and the 777X.
So...
And on the 37 line you'll see is getting to the backside of the MAX transition as we get into 2017.
Yes.
And you'll see us ramping up to the 47 a month planned production rate increase.
But both of those factors will play in an advantageous way to the 37 deliveries in 2017.
Okay.
It's just hard to understand the comparison with the 787 given that you've doubled deliveries there over a couple years as a new model came in.
And now you're talking about 737 being down in 2016.
Well again you've got a couple of test aircraft right for the flight test program that you're not going to deliver this year.
So you're going to produce some and you're going to deliver them.
And then we have additional MAX airplanes that we're actually building this year that will be delivered next year.
So that's the difference.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
And the key here is again we're doing the right thing to make sure this is a profitable smooth transition.
We remain very confident in that.
And as I think hopefully you saw the news recently we are on track to fly the MAX very soon.
So that development has gone well.
The airplane is looking solid and as soon as the weather is right we will fly the airplane.
So we're very confident in the MAX and our planned ramp up.
Hey.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Hey Carter.
Just a clarification and then a question if I can.
On the question relating to the program margin changes you said that are already incorporated in your guidance for BCA presumably the 777 cut had a negative program margin move associated with it and the 737 rate increase had the opposite.
Obviously we had a negative impact with the forward loss on the 47 but are those correct? Well yes they're actually in the Q4 booking rate as well.
Oh of course.
Right? So – and then into 2016.
But yeah there was a modest impact on the 777 with the rate cut and the 37 was at least from a quarter-to-quarter perspective was about flat.
There wasn't a significant change there.
And again that did incorporate some of the investment to go up to 57.
Okay.
And just to clarify here the parallel – the comparison to the 787 that you're talking about on the MAX does that refer to building the 787-9 on the surge line alongside the 787-8 and you're going to build the MAX in a third line at Renton alongside the NG? Is that what you mean by the same plan the same model? Yeah I mean I think that is the same.
And at the same time and as you know when you get further back in the supply chain is where you see the longer flow in learning because sometimes they're utilizing the same tooling and same fixtures.
But that methodology about ensuring we have enough flow time for the derivative aircraft implementation and taking into account the learning associated with that that's all taken into account.
Now the uniqueness to this is that we will be building these airplanes this year and delivering them next year.
But again that's all taken into consideration as a smooth introduction into the production system.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Okay.
You're welcome.
Operator we have time for one more analyst question.
Hey.
Good afternoon Dennis Greg.
Hey.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Hey Greg or Dennis on the CapEx investments whether we're talking all the automation stuff that you're doing on the wing build or the fuselage on the 777 how does that profile look over you know I assume it's again relatively stable this year but do we start to see – when do we start to see all this investment trend down? Obviously now you're talking about a higher rate on the 737 and does that require an additional step up? Yeah just a question on the CapEx profile.
Thanks.
Sure.
Yeah this year is our peak year Peter.
So it'll start to taper off going forward.
And again it just as you described it some of that's on the productivity initiatives and then on the rate increases.
So this will be our year which obviously as we've said is really tied to the growth in the production rate.
So we'll start to taper off going into 2017 and beyond.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Good.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will continue with the questions for Dennis and Greg at this time.
If you have any questions following this part of the session please contact our Media Relations team at 312-544-2002.
Operator we're ready for the first question.
And in the interest of time this afternoon we ask that you limit everyone to one question only please.
And first in line is Jon Ostrower with The Wall Street Journal.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Hi Jon.
Glad we can do this a second time.
A pair of questions actually.
One first for Greg.
Greg I'm curious in terms of returning cash positive on 787 overall.
I'm curious your level of confidence right now in avoiding a forward loss on the 787 program as a whole and whether or not you see the ramping up ahead as a critical event on getting out of the woods as you kind of are able to really measure your level of productivity improvement.
And for Dennis more of a strategic question.
Coming out of 2015 you ended the market share balance with Airbus on single-aisle aircraft for MAX versus 4 400 to 3 100 roughly.
And they just should have number.
I think you guys need to beat Airbus by a 100 orders annually for the next decade and a half roughly to get back to 50%.
I'm just curious what steps you're thinking right now are necessary to redeem that market share parity.
And what are you thinking about from a strategic perspective that's going to be necessary to do that? Okay.
Greg do you want to take the first one there? Yeah Jon as I indicated earlier 787 unit performance is improving.
And obviously we expect that to improve as we come down learning curves as we have on other programs historically.
At the same time implement productivity initiatives whether it's in our supply chain or in our own factories.
And we have plans in place to continue to implement those going forward.
And then obviously we have favorable mix as we look forward as well where we'll have more Dash 9s and Dash 10s as we look to the years to come versus the past.
So no question.
I mean we've got work to do here as we have but I think we've got good plans in place and again solid projects that we've got to go implement and get them matured and get them into the factory.
And Jon to your second question regarding market share and our perspectives on narrow body we remain very confident in the investments we've made in the MAX and its performance in the marketplace.
And I recognize the numbers you pointed out there.
But I think it's important to note that since we launched the MAX it's actually been about 50/50 in terms of orders.
And we also like to make sure we're looking at deliveries of airplanes.
And as noted again we were the market leader in total deliveries again this year.
So when we think about market share it's important to think about both deliveries and future orders.
And as we've had the MAX in the marketplace and competing based on feedback from our customers we see that the MAX is providing a value proposition beyond our competitor's aircraft.
So we feel confident about the MAX and its future prospects.
You see that reflected in our rate ramp up expectations going from the current 42 to 47 52 and as we've announced today going to 57 a month.
We also are mindful that we're going to run a disciplined profitable business.
And so as we think about rate ramp ups we don't simply make decisions based on market share desires.
We make decisions from a long-term perspective what's going to be valuable to our shareholders.
We're going to provide profitable ramp-up and continue to deliver value for our customers.
So I think the performance in the marketplace is speaking for itself and we remain confident in our strategy.
Our next question is from Alwyn Scott with Reuters.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my call.
Switching gears just a little bit here the agreement with the engineers was quite a contrast with the machinists and the prior engineers' contract.
The union said they saw a really different approach across the table.
And Dennis I wanted to ask you do you have a different kind of outlook on this? Is this a conscious decision? And if so what's your strategy there? Well thank you for your question.
I think it's important again to go back to some comments I made on our last call.
And that is for the long term we place a very high value on our employees and their talent.
We think it's important to have a mutually respectful relationship and one that recognizes the value that our team brings to the table every day arguably from my viewpoint the best team in the world.
At the same time we all know the competitive realities that we face.
So we have continued to set a tone and a conversation with our work force that as a company as a team we need to recognize the market realities.
We need to be competitive.
And at the same time we want to recognize this great team and treat them with the respect they deserve.
So that's been the tone of our discussions.
That's been reinforced by Ray and his team in Puget Sound.
And together I think we've engaged in what's been a very productive conversation.
We are very supportive of the tentative agreement that's on the table.
And we're hopeful that that'll be ratified by the membership over the next few weeks.
And if so it will provide labor stability and competitiveness for the company for the long-term which will allow us to continue to invest in the future.
And it will recognize the contribution and talent of our employees.
And so we do think it's a good balanced solution.
So we're hopeful that it will be ratified.
And we want to continue to set that tone of mutual respect and the tone of competitiveness and be the market leader for the long run.
And that's part of the commitment that I've made for my end as well.
Our next question's from Dominic Gates with The Seattle Times.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Actually let me ask first for a clarification because I may have misheard something.
And talking about deliveries in 2016 did you say that the 787 would be flat in deliveries compared to last year despite the rate increase that you planned for midyear? Yes.
Just the timing with regards to some of the customer deliveries.
But we expect to be about flat Dominic.
We had a bit of advantageous timing to 2015.
In 2016 that's offset by the ramp up to the 12 a month as planned.
And so those two factors together make it roughly level through the year.
Yes.
Right.
Okay.
And to my question first of all my apologies for getting a detail wrong in my story last night and making the false assumption that you have a charge related to this 777 rate decrease.
But can you help me explain why does the 747 rate decrease of six planes a year result in an $800 million charge and a 777 decrease of 16 a year no charge? Can you just help me explain that? Yeah I mean Dominic the 747 just is not as profitable.
I mean it's that simple where the 777 is a pretty significant contributor to us and operates at a higher margin and is not at risk to being in a reach forward where the 47 was not.
And so that's really the difference between the two programs.
Did you change the accounting block on the 47? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg.
Please go ahead.
Hi Greg.
Just a quick question.
I wanted to circle back on Q1 free cash flow guidance.
Yeah.
Can you just walk us through what's weighing on cash flow in the first period.
Obviously you see it improving as the year goes on.
And I'm just wondering if it might have been effected by cash advances sliding into Q4 2015.
Yeah no it was not.
If you go back over time you'll see just because of the seasonality of the business whether it's on the commercial side or defense the timing of receipts and expenditures tends to be heavily weighted into the first quarter.
So again if you look back over time you'll see that's either a cash use in the first quarter or breakeven or maybe slightly positive.
So the trend we see into 2016 is no different than that.
And advances aren't really a material driver in that whatsoever.
It's just purely again seasonality and timing around each one of those receipts and then frankly just payments we have to our suppliers.
And our next question is from Glenn Farley with KING TV.
Please go ahead.
How are you guys doing this morning? I am trying to get a better sense for how you or this is – you're looking at a fairly bullish time going ahead even though we're probably dropping back to a book-to-bill ratio of one to one.
But it's fairly optimistic regarding the rest of the global economy considering that the Fed just minutes ago said they were going to keep interest rates unchanged and were going to watch it.
So can you give me a better sense of your confidence level despite the global economic issues that seem to be building? Yeah we will.
And I think your read in that is correct in that we're bullish about our prospects but we're also paying attention to what's happening in the macro environment around us.
If you take a look at GDP projections of about 2.7% growth over the near-term and midterm again that's a balanced view.
That's different in different parts of the world as you well know.
But on balance that's a respectable level for our industry.
The key differentiator is we continue to see passenger growth globally increasing at about 6% to 7% a year.
It is outpacing GDP.
And even in places like China where obviously it's been getting a lot of attention on economic growth prospects even during the fourth quarter of 2015 just as a reference point as GDP in China fell back to a little under 7% airplane and passenger traffic growth increased 15%.
So passenger growth continues to outpace GDP.
That is a strong trend.
It's a long-term trend.
And then that's part of what paints a bit more of a bullish view in terms of our growth prospects.
You see that reflected in our planned production rate increases.
And again we try to be very disciplined about that.
We take a long-term view on these rate increase decisions.
And those are not made lightly.
And we take that balanced view and the fact that we are ramping up should convey our general confidence in the marketplace.
And we'll continue to keep a watchful eye on the macroeconomics.
Operator we have time for one last question from the media this morning.
And that will be from the line of Stephen Trimble with Flightglobal.
Please go ahead.
Yeah I have a question about the 747 rate cut last week and the move to six per year and how long that is sustainable before you have to review that depending on how orders come in.
Especially given this aspiration you've talked about of mid-teens margins.
And I think you talked about how in 2019 you see the 20-year replacement cycle coming into effect.
How long is the six per year sustainable? Yeah Steve that's the decision that we made.
That is a sustainable rate position for that line to bridge us to the 2019 replacement cycle.
And you're right.
When we take a long-term view at the market although cargo has been flattish during this past year at about 2% growth and if we look at near-term projections of about 2% to 3% growth we think that's modest and reasonable.
The production rate announcement we've made factors that in.
As we get to the 2019 timeframe we take a look at the peer replacement market that's out there about 45% of the current fleet will need to be replaced.
I said earlier we'll have 240 large freighters that will be over 20 years old at that point.
So the replacement need is real.
And while the 747 is a niche market it's an important niche market and one that we think is sustainable.
So all of the decisions we've made factor in both the near-term economics as well as this longer-term replacement cycle.
And I think as you said Steve obviously we're watching it closely.
And between this timeframe and the 2019 that Dennis articulated obviously we've got to continue to get orders through that period.
And we have a robust pipeline that the team is working on.
But it's something that obviously we're staying very close to.
It's a great airplane and a tough cargo market.
And we're expecting that to recover and we've got the perfect asset to align to that recovery.
That concludes our earnings call.
Again for members of the media if you have further questions please call our media relations team at 312-544-2002.
Thank you.