Good morning and welcome to the Earnings Call for Raymond James Financial’s Fiscal 2015 First Quarter Results.
My name is Felicia and I will be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded and would be available on the Company's Web site.
Now I will turn it over to Paul Shoukry Vice President of Finance and Head of Investor Relations at Raymond James Financial.
Thanks Felicia and good morning.
On behalf of our entire leadership team I want to thank you for joining the call this morning.
We really do appreciate your time and interest in Raymond James Financial.
After I read the following disclosure I'll turn the call over to Paul Reilly our Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Julien our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks they will ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include information concerning future strategic objectives business prospects anticipated savings financial results industry or market conditions demand for our products acquisitions anticipated results of litigation &amp; regulatory developments or general economic conditions.
In addition to words such as believe expect anticipate intends plans projects forecasts and future and conditional verbs such as will may could should and would as well as any other statements that necessarily depends on future events are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements.
We urge you to carefully consider the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K which is available on the SEC's Web site at sec.gov.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Paul Reilly CEO of Raymond James Financial.
Paul? Thanks Paul and good morning.
I’ve got little cold here you have to excuse my voice.
While we’re here in St.
Petersburg focused on recruiting we can watch the world leaders focused on solving the world’s problems.
But it’s a little bit warmer in St.
Petersburg [indiscernible].
I'd like to start by saying first it’s a solid start to our fiscal year especially considering the volatility uncertainty in the whole capital market segment.
Quarterly net revenue of $1.25 billion is up 6% over prior year and down from the 3% from the preceding quarter.
Part of that is based on an adjustment we’ll talk about.
And we’re also comparing it to last quarter which was an exceptional investment banking quarter.
Pretax income of $203 million which is up 16.2% of pretax on net revenue net income of $126 million or $0.87 per diluted share.
Our ROE annualized is 12% on a conservative and somewhat argue prudent capital base given the state of the economy and particularly 12% given the rate environment we believe is very good on our capital base.
Most importantly our key drivers of our business are up record quarterly AUA of $483 billion down from last month but a quarter of record.
Record quarterly assets under management of $66.7 billion net loans of $11.8 billion and maybe most importantly which drives those other factors is that a net 71 addition of financial advisors in the quarter alone.
Going to the Private Client Group quarterly net revenues of $845 million up 8% but down 2% from the previous quarter 8% over last year and $19 million of that revenue -- Jeff will address the $10.5 million kind of mutual fund adjustment which adjusted in this quarter but could have spread over the last five years and 6% plus in some syndicate and insurance and other conditional products that was down in the quarter.
Pretax income was $93 million which is 30% over last year’s quarter and 11% pretax margin to net revenue.
So a strong performance by the Private Client Group keeps marching on.
Retention; keeping our good advisors is job one and we had good results in the quarter and recruiting is job two with a 158 additional advisors over last year’s quarter and 71 over the sequential quarter.
The pipeline of our HOV which are Home Office Visits is very robust and we look forward to a good recruiting season.
Client assets under administration are $459 billion.
38% of that is in fee based accounts.
In fact or total recruiting revenues in the Private Client Group segment are getting about 75%.
Capital markets quarterly net revenue of $232 million down 3% from last year and 11% sequentially but again last quarter we had a record investment banking revenue year.
M&amp;A stayed really good at $47 million but other investment banking revenue was down.
And the number of deals in the U.S.
were essentially flat.
We had a few less lead deals in that quarter and our fee per deal and our revenue per deal that we participated in was down.
And this was compounded by very weak conditions in the Canadian Capital Markets an energy based economy which has been tough going.
Our tax credit funds are also down about $6 million due to timing not the run rate just when we closed deals.
So they all impacted the quarter.
Volatility helped our institutional commissions up 10% sequentially in equities and 12% in fixed income.
Our trading profits were down but again some unusual factors.
$2 million of that was due to fixed income softer previous quarter.
The $3 million was really a write down in Canada due to an energy related deal and a brought deal that we were right lead on.
So those impacted trading profits.
Asset management is kind of humming along record quarterly assets of $56.7 billion 10% over the private year both by market appreciation and net flows about 800 million of net flows by managed accounts for the last quarter.
Record net revenue a $99.6 million benefited from a $5 million performance fee.
We had a record pretax of 39.8% -- pretax was $39.8 million which gave us a 40% margin but that’s due to those factors and we expect that to move more towards that 30% margin target.
RJ Bank record net loans up $850 million sequentially part of that driven by an acquisition of the $207 million residential portfolio.
Record quarterly net revenues of $100.5 million pretax of $66.4 million up 20% over last year’s quarter NIM improved two basis points over last quarter essentially flat with last year.
The loan loss increases were almost entirely due to loan growth not credit issues.
In fact our credit metrics continue to improve.
If you looked at non-performing assets as a percent of total loans that declined from 60 bips from 69 bips a year-ago included size loans were down also.
So with that I'm going turn it over to Jeff who will go into some more detailed numbers.
Jeff? Thanks Paul.
Paul touched on several line items so I'll try to just hit the ones that he did not touch on.
When you compare this quarter to last year’s quarter in general most of the revenue and expense line items are pretty self-explanatory.
Commissions and fees are up obviously largely PCG and just our general size with more advisors more assets et cetera.
He touched on advisory fee.
We did have a performance fee last December as well in fact about twice the size of the one this year.
So that’s an even more impressive gain in advisory fees over the prior year.
Interest is up on revenue side and that’s just merely as a result of the bank's growth.
Finally all that loan growth we had is kicking into net interest.
Account and service fees is going to continue to grow just as our general size grows.
I know we -- I said last quarter maybe a 108 was the right run rate and that’s kind where everyone had modeled it but the fact is between all the various types of fees that go in there with IRA fees transaction fees and some fee accounts all kinds of fees that are assessed around the organization that are actually the fees we get from other banks and our bank suite program -- remember that’s not interest that's fees us and all those things fall into that line.
So that’s going to continue to grow as our overall asset base grows.
Paul has touched on trading profits and the factors there.
Other is down pretty significantly from last year but last year we had a bigger private equity gain in the quarter than we did this year and we also had $5.5 million gain from ARS redemptions that we did not have this year.
On the expense side just a couple of things that deserve mention.
One is versus last year first quarter communication and information processing is down pretty significantly also down just slightly from last quarter preceding quarter and certainly versus your estimates and I know that’s because of our guidance toward a bigger number.
While we have a -- you might think this is a fairly easy line item for us to budget but the fact is while it’s not difficult to budget total spend it’s a little bit tough for us to judge when and how things will be capitalized versus expensed when things are completed along the way and it’s also difficult as other examples in various projects if we use employees to do the project whether it’s a maintenance project or whatever it could be an expense item.
And if we hire outside consultants to do it it falls in the IT expense line item.
So it’s a little difficult for us to get the P&amp;L impact on that line item.
Although we certainly talk about total spend at the budget meetings quite a bit.
Business development is going to continue to increase largely due to recruiting efforts estimated advisory sub advisory fees obviously growth in assets where we're the advisor and we sub advise in some of our programs to unaffiliated managers.
The bank loan loss provision is up pretty dramatically from both last year and last quarter and that’s -- I don’t think $9.4 million provision expense should really shock anyone in light of $846 million in net loan growth in the quarter.
That’s not all corporate loan growth.
It’s in the various categories.
So I know through November I think we’d only had $300 million of net loan growth from the September.
So obviously we had a very very active December in loan growth at the bank and that's including a full purchase of residential loans and that led to the bigger production and the bigger provision for the quarter.
And then the other expense so that’s another item that’s going to get bigger just as we get bigger.
There are a number of individual small items that go into that particular line item.
Versus the preceding quarter the securities commissions and fees they had -- Paul mentioned they were up nicely on the capital markets side but down sequentially in the private client group side.
And that decline of about $19 million was about half of that or a little more than half of that was made up by this mutual fund adjustment which relates to our going back five years related to share classes used in retirement accounts.
We’ve heard that this was going out to other firms.
So we voluntarily went back five year period and that’s the kind of a systematically generated worst case type number.
I think when we scrub it we may have some positive adjustments to that going forward.
But for now it’s about a $10.5 million type item that we’ve chosen to reverse out of commissions.
Again it covers over a five year period looking back.
And then appropriately we took the corresponding reverse loan expense commission expense related to that.
Investment banking we had a huge September quarter record quarter for us in September.
So obviously you would expect a good decline there.
Again Paul mentioned as pretty active just the economics per transaction were a lot lower than they were in the preceding quarter.
We talked about investment advisory fees.
They're obviously tracking assets and we had the performance fee this time.
Interest is still generated at the bank predominantly in terms of the increase.
The other revenues are actually up nicely.
We had little more PE gains and we also had -- in this particular corridor we had a sale of an OREO property at the bank for a profit which kicked in there.
On occupancy and equipment it may look odd that that would decline.
If you remember it was a little bit high in the preceding quarter.
We talked about a couple of factors in terms of some maintenance work that was being done at one of our facilities in south field and some things like that that made a little bit higher than the run rate last quarter.
So it’s really kind of on track.
And then the other expense -- one other item I’ll mention that's kind of rationing of other expense.
We actually have several of our tax credit fund deals that have been purchased by our own bank as part of their CRA program and it’s a good after tax return to the bank.
The accounting has been changed on those such that if you buy them from a third party the tax effect of what would have been a pretax loss all gets netted down below in the tax line.
However since we’re buying it from an affiliated party on a consolidated basis we end up showing that as a loss a pretax loss on our statement.
And then correspondingly we get a tax benefit.
So not a huge factor.
We only have I think three transactions that we own at the bank.
But just one more nuance that's going to impacts us.
Let me just talk about three other things.
Our pretax margin obviously came in well above our 15% target for the quarter at 16.2% and perhaps our internal target may ratchet up over time here given the state of our businesses and the fact that we’re seeing the leverage from the increased revenues in these businesses that we’ve talked about over the years.
Comp ratio was down to 67.2% but remember we had a couple of adjustments.
We had some -- this mutual fund the expense side of that was reversed in there.
We also in every December reverse whatever over accruals we had from the prior year in incentive compensation pool.
That’s a factor every year.
We try to keep it under 10 million but it's there every December quarter for us to some extent.
Without those things it would have been high 67 and again 68 is an annual number annual target for us not necessarily to happen every quarter just once because of the incentive comp reversal is typically a little lower and then next quarter would be a little higher with FICA restarting another things that we talked about a year-ago.
Lastly the tax rate was 37.8% a higher than was projected and I guess I would say we try to every quarter look at what our annual tax rate is going to be based on what we know for the year-to-date.
We don’t know whole lot by the end of December for the whole fiscal year but one of the things we do know is what the quarterly gain or loss is and it was a nice gain for the quarter.
It was about $6 million gain for the quarter.
So we assume for the balance of the year that it’s not going to change.
We don’t assume that that’s going to be $6 million per quarter.
So on a bigger pretax income base we have less affect from that.
And we sort of somewhat conservatively I think estimate all of the annual impacts just because we don’t want a negative surprises but the minimize the negative surprises through the end of the year in terms of the tax rate but for those modeling forward if you assume a flat market rate environment or flat -- that 37.5 type tax rate probably is still a pretty good estimate to year going forward.
Paul? I'll give you kind of a little bit of a floored look.
Again once our key to good -- the areas is the key drivers of our business which is related to the private client group are all very positive.
So assets under administration and since we bill quarterly in advance we get some tailwinds from that.
Perhaps that’s under management or up.
Net loans with the provision this quarter but those loans should be producing next quarter.
Recruiting remains robust and this is the peak recruiting season this next quarter so in terms of visits.
So takes a while between a visit and a sign on but that's been going very good.
In private client group productivity of the advisors continues to go up.
So we should have a tailwind in that area.
This also impacts the asset management in the bank.
So for us the key is our culture is I think one of the reasons that our net additions are so good is that we're focused on making this a very friendly place to work and that’s our number one.
It allows us to keep people.
It allows us to offer less transition assistance than other firms do to bring people in because people want to be here.
We continue to invest heavily in our tax spend so when it gets down I think the annual run rate we still hold to.
I believe we're becoming a leader really in the FA desktop technology.
Asset management continues to grow with net flows driven by PCG recruitment.
Again the 40% margin I think was a blip that 30% margins were a normal run rate for it.
Bank growth is always tougher to predict.
As Jeff said last quarter wasn’t really big through November and then we had a great December and a little slower start in January.
So it’s always hard to predict what’s going to happen there.
The NIM increased to two basis points.
I think it spells hopefully that spreads are widening a little bit but.
But on that I think we are still comfortable with the mid-teens guidance in overall net loan growth for the year and I think we're still comfortable with 3%ish net interest margin for the year even though we've seen some gradual improvement there? And then Canada will have some impact next quarter.
The 25 decrease does affect our variable rate loans in Canada.
It's got a $600 million book.
So all-in-all I think we're in good shape from those businesses.
Capital markets is a tough one.
Volatility increases certainly helped institutional commissions but volatility sometimes makes it harder to go to market depending if it's volatile trending up or trending down but -- so that has some questions and we do have a very good oil and gas midstream energy practice.
One of our biggest practices certainly in terms of financings could impact the short-term if oil prices stay down.
Certainly M&amp;A aspect which we do a fair amount of also would be up.
And the Canadian business is certainly impacted because its commodity based practice.
But even within that we're growing platform we added a consumer team last quarter this quarter added a life sciences team and new head of M&amp;A in Canada.
Public finance coming off a great year still a tough market.
We went from actually 10 to number 8 in the league tables for full credit to lead on negotiated issues.
For the first time hit over $10 billion last year but still a tough market.
Fixed income trading profits were more difficult as we get a flatter yield curve.
Institutional commissions certainly have increased.
There's been a lot of questions I guess for everyone in general on energy exposure.
So I'll talk a little bit about ours.
If you look at our loan book about 3.4% of our loans are broadly in the energy sector.
We only have one loan to an E&amp;P company and it an investment grade rated facility.
And that we do have some sort of servicers small exposures but most of them are midstream kind of companies and we feel pretty comfortable with our loan exposure.
We have been discussing it don’t feel -- unless oil prices stay down for a very long time that will have a negative impact.
So we like our credit exposure.
Certainly I think oil prices are good for consumers' long term.
So we have a big consumer based business here.
So it may show up in other parts of our business and short term could have an impact on our investment banking financing part of our business but creates an M&amp;A opportunity.
The next quarter in some ways is a tougher quarter for us.
It’s -- sometimes when the lot of deals close by year end you don’t know what’s going to happen in the first quarter in banking.
Certainly our comp ratio will be higher for a number of reasons not just the reversal going away but FICA hits us in this quarter.
As you remember if you go past it’s one of the increased costs.
We also send out lots of statements at the end of the quarter and there's a $2 million impact on that that hits us in this quarter for annual reports and client statements.
So with that the basics of the business are really strong.
I like being here at Raymond James with our position in terms of growing assets capital and advisors.
Short term it’s hard to tell in this type of environment with both the global economy and what’s happening in the U.S.
We feel very very comfortable in our position for the year but it’s hard to predict what’s going to happen next quarter.
So with that Felicia I guess we’ll turn -- open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities.
So I just want to dig in a little bit on the NIM in the bank.
And I guess the puts and takes there too.
I know there's a long moving parts with clearly some rate pressure here.
But then the loan growth has been still upsized and not all of that has been reflected yet.
So I guess the question is does it go up structurally with the loans that you brought on? And then the kind of the offset is the mortgage and rate pressure is going to go off.
But I'm just trying to think through kind of some of the moving parts to how you say 3% or it may even go up a little bit from here? Devin good morning it’s Steve Raney.
As Jeff alluded to the 3% it’s kind of a good target I think for the balance of the year.
I would say right now we’re seeing actually maybe a slight widening in corporate credit spreads.
Residential spreads have probably pulled in a little bit.
But things are relatively stable right now.
So we’re pretty confident that that number is going to be pretty flat for the balance of the year on when you blend it all together.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
And then just looking at the… I am sorry Devin.
I was just going to remind to everybody that majority of our loans are floating rate LIBOR based loans.
Both our corporate loans as well as our growing securities based loans where we’re making loans to Raymond James clients secured with their Raymond James brokerage account.
So those two loan components are almost exclusively LIBOR based floating rate loans.
Got it thanks Steve.
And then with respect to the debt underwriting business I know there was some pressure this quarter as you alluded to.
But I guess the revenues just look pretty soft given that you’ve had some pretty nice improvement there the past few quarters.
So just little more color there would be helpful.
Was there seasonal factors or was it related to just kind of the macro backdrop and the outlook for that business specifically just given that kind of we took a descent step back in this quarter.
I can tell you our pipeline is strong.
We’ve moved up in market share.
It’s just the macro market.
So when it increases we’ll do well.
We’re well positioned.
We have a good team.
We’re continuing to expand the team actually and grow in the market.
So there is nothing.
It’s hard to tell.
The backlog is very good in the business.
But it’s just new issues are down across the board.
Got it okay.
Fair enough.
And then just lastly here with respect to the just a clean-up item the commission adjustment that occurred the corresponding expense what was that in the independent channel or the traditional channel? Just trying to kind of get a sense because I know that can have a big impact in terms of what the commission rate is that was netted again? So I'm just trying to get a better sense of the actual earnings impact? We just made a broad assumption at this point of half and half and they’re [indiscernible] about 60% charge for our payout rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Christ Allen with Evercore.
Just wanted to talk a little bit about the communication information processing line.
You guys provided some color there.
In the last quarter there was -- you talked about being on a big of hiatus in terms of capital projects.
We’re just trying to think about how that line should look going forward just kind of a good run rate right now or should that start to creep back up again? I think it will start to creep back up.
Remember Paul mentioned that next quarter -- it’s not just IT.
It’s really all we call all communication.
So we've put some of these mailing costs and things like that in there as well which are seasonally high in the March quarter with 1099 year-end statements and shareholder information.
That’s over a $2 million charge just because of that and to the extent that we kept up our spend rate which we know we are still investing heavily in technology to stay current here.
Some of the things that we have been working on will start to amortize.
Some of that will be taken in.
So I would certainly expect it to creep back up toward where we have been guiding previously which was the low-to-mid-60s but again it’s a little hard -- bit of a hard number to put our thumb on.
So I can emphasize for your situation.
Got it.
And then I appreciate the color just in terms of the energy exposure in the loan book just wondering how big of a component the capital markets business’s energy been historically? It sounds like stuff [ph] in the account is a little bit weak right now and you provided disclosure on the Canadian overall revenue.
Just wondering within the bank because I am sorry within the capital markets piece how big energy is? It depends when? Last year was 15% it goes up and down.
Real-estate is our biggest practice followed by Energy.
But it depends how those cycles are doing.
And of that 15% a good portion of that was advisory base as well.
So it wasn’t all underwriting 15% 20%.
I would imagine this current pullback is going to create opportunity longer term within that business.
So not all bad near-term obviously a challenge.
And then I just one other question just within the bank it looks like other income that was about $4 billion roughly $3.5 million to $4 million.
I was wondering is there is anything one-timer in there or is it because it was a big jump what we calculated last quarter? Yes Chris one of the things that we alluded to earlier was the sale of a oil property property that we had foreclosed on where we sold it for more than we had written it down to.
That was about a $550 000 contribution.
There is a bunch of other items that are comprised in there foreign exchange.
We mentioned in the September quarter that we don’t have any other foreign exchange.
We moved the loans the Canadians denominated loans to the Canadian finance company.
So there we are really fully hedged now.
So we don’t have that volatility in the bank’s earnings going forward.
So those were the contributing factors.
And there was a loss negative in the September quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Christian Onwugbolu with Credit Suisse.
Just a follow-up on the tax spend but a bit of a broader question.
You've done a very good job in terms of improving solutions for advisors but I'd like to get your latest thoughts on what areas you're targeting for future investments.
And also any thoughts around any additional investments needed for things like data security? First -- I will take them in reverse.
We data security very very seriously and we've had both our auditors and other consultant kind of review our security and we get high marks for our size.
We have Bella and her team and the person that heads our data security have done a great job.
As you all know in this environment we think we're safe as you can be but nobody is bullet proof.
So we're active in it with active monitoring.
So it’s in a focused area and I guess the bad guys get better and we continue to spend more but we feel like we are as state of the art as anyone in this area certainly can’t spend what the biggest firms spend but nor do we have a broad global exposure.
In technology we continue to -- we've focused a lot on the FA desktop and reporting.
We're spending more time now on cash movement whether it’s taking a picture of a check and depositing or making it easy to journal or make our trading systems easier integrating a lot of our data platform so that we can do more data mining and on the underlying systems and able to add to new modules.
So it’s pretty broad based.
We started out with the plan -- a five year plan.
We're half way through it.
We are right on every place we are and we continue to improve and get better.
So it's certainly just helping quality of the system all the way across the make our advisor life easier and be able to manage the business better.
And then on the fixed income business I appreciate it’s very hard to forecast.
But your results have held in pretty well here.
If the environment stays as it is today just love to get your latest thoughts on how you see kind of the revenue trajectory there what would be the next [indiscernible]? Gosh I would have been wrong calling the bottoms for a while.
So I guess the worst case scenario is that short-terms rates go up a couple of hundreds bips and we have a flat yield curve through the tenure and for fixed income.
However we're voting for it.
It will be very good for Raymond James consolidated.
So certainly volatility help in trading but the flatter the yield curve the harder it is on trading profits and on -- and even on commission volumes long term.
So a low flat curve is the worst case and if you had to project it looks like we’re moving closer to that and farther from it right now.
So we like volatility and a steeper yield curve.
So you’re going to have to make some predictions on that business.
So we got a great team and great distribution.
They're very active with the clients.
And so you’re right.
We’ve done better than most.
But I can’t tell you what the macro trends are.
I can’t say anything short term it’s going to make the business look a lot better.
And as I tell our people internally we believe that we have an A-team in the D market and still double digit margins and with a terrible market.
So I don’t see short term really but we’ve got a good team.
Okay thanks for the color there.
And then just lastly from me Jeff just remind us some potential [ph] client cash how much client cash you have on the platform.
How much of that is being swept to third parties and then what kind of yields you’re getting on that sweep? We’re up to about $32.5 billion.
It’s actually increased as we brought on new clients and new financial advisors from the September.
We have probably $28 billion of that $32.5 billion sitting in our bank suite program $10.5 billion of that roughly going to our own bank and balance to unaffiliated banks.
You know what the spread is in our own bank because we’ve talked about the NIM.
The spread from outside banks pretty big range but we’re seeing some upticks in that.
There is more demand from outside banks.
We’ve seen an increase.
We’re over 30 basis points now on average.
And we’re seeing all the new contracts that come up for renewal and the new banks that were bringing on are at higher rates than the ones that are running off.
So we’ve seen a little turnaround there really started about six to nine months ago where banks actually now want deposits again.
They aren’t quite as easy to come by as they were in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
This is actually Neil Stratton filling in for Bill this morning.
I just want to ask the question about the Private Client Group.
You mentioned the robust recruiting trends.
So the two part question is A where is the growth coming from and then B how does the productivity compare of the incoming recruits versus the overall platform? Thanks.
Couple of things.
First the growth in general comes from warehouses for people who are I would say from acquired firms.
The deals build off and they are seeking kind of the cultures they grew up in.
So that’s general.
But also we’ve had -- we focused on opening up the West and North East.
It’s a big focus of ours started couple of years ago and it’s starting to pay off.
So a third of our recruiting growth has come just in the West Coast and North East.
And it happened to be amongst the biggest markets.
So we have very low penetration.
So we see huge opportunity there and assigned some large teams and continue to have a lot of interest in the West and North East.
And if you look at our platform we have national advertising national servicing call centers.
So the marginal cost -- we’re already incurring the costs and not getting the leverage on a lot of those areas.
So we think there is a very very big opportunity there.
It’s coming across all of our platforms employee independent and our RIA channel which we've kind of reinvigorated.
It’s picking up in its backlog of recruits too.
So it’s really across the board.
And we see that if you measure it by home office visits which are -- people are serious enough to come kick the tires here in St.
Pete and us also interview them that's us.
So it continues to increase.
So we think the backlog is very-very good.
In terms of productivity at higher and maybe 20% higher on average and we’ve also seen for us million dollar team should be big.
In last quarter I think we had three teams over $5 million join us just within six weeks alone.
So we tend to get bigger teams.
It doesn’t mean we don’t get smaller producers that are high quality and on their way up.
We’re just as interested in them.
But the average is certainly up.
So it helps move up our productivity numbers.
Okay thank you.
And then my second question is just the outlook for the top to net revenue ratio.
I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned the 68% ratio.
Is that still the -- so the target for fiscal ’15 and how would that sort of move sort of quarter-to-quarter if you could provide any color there? Thanks.
I think that’s probably still a good run rate to use for this year for the entire year.
What will happen to improve that over time and it may improve slightly over that this year is as revenue growth continues eventually you get some economies of scale in the infrastructure you have here as opposed.
So it’s not all variable comp.
There are some fixed comp elements to that.
So it really is going to come with scale over time as revenues grow.
And like I said it may happen this year if revenues continue to increase from the prior year.
But our most challenged quarter is usually next quarter when FICA across the Board and that usually burns off in the third quarter part way through the third quarter.
So typically the pressure on that ratio getting steady business across is in the next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
So I just had a follow-up question on the fixed business.
Just given how [ph] is shape of the yield curve and the rate pressure that had persisted on the long end whether we should be thinking about $10 million as the run rate for net trading profit at least in the near to intermediate term assuming a static curve which I know is a big if.
The front end really for couple of years that run rate is probably reasonable.
I can’t tell you it's been -- it hasn’t been an increasing net profit.
I think trading profit.
This quarter was challenged and we had an unusual situation for the Canada that impacted trading profit.
In Canada everything in equity capital markets is a brought deal and you got five days of exposure versus an overnight exposure.
And we got in on a deal which was an energy credit where we was on all place.
We weren’t the lead left but we were the lead right and oil prices went down or caught in the position.
So that’s kind of a one off thing.
That happens every few years will end up in a position on a deal.
They do great job there but with oil coming in we got caught on that one.
That’s an unusual item.
The rest of it I think is kind of steady.
If we had to pick a range I would say that -- that will be the low end of the range.
So if you want to be real conservative I guess you could use that number.
And then just I guess the follow-up to a question earlier on the communications expense.
I just want to make sure that we are modeling it appropriately.
Should we be thinking about low to mid-60s as the annualized $250 million or so given that it came in about 10 million less than we had anticipated should we assume that an incremental 3 million gets tacked on say normalized rate or should we just assume somewhere in the low-60s going forward at least over the next three fiscal quarters? For all the reasons I enumerated earlier it's a little bit tough for us to tell.
I think low-60s for going forward is probably a reasonable estimate at this point.
And then just one final one for me maybe for Steve at the bank thinking about the provision trajectory it did increase consistent with the guidance you guys have given in last quarter.
Should we assume that this is a reasonable run rate expectation given some of the guidance you have given on loan growth for at least a reminder of the year? Well we're forecasting loan growth to be slower for the balance of this year relative to the December quarter and we would expect provisioning to be aligned with that loan growth.
Does the 130 basis points to 140 basis point provision expectation still hold or is there any remixing issues that we need to consider? No that’s right.
The blend of the business is it does impact that.
Our residential provisioning is lower than our corporate lending provisioning as is our security type lending is lower as well.
So I would say that’s kind of a good 125 basis points - 140 basis point provisioning on loan growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Hugh Miller with Macquarie.
So I guess starting with the couple of questions for Steve.
I appreciate the color you gave on the NIM and kind of the widening of credit spreads and how that’s been helpful to offset some of the pressure on the yield curve.
I wanted to get your take on kind of deposit pricing competition when we start to get into an eventual rising rate environment.
It seems to be I guess [indiscernible] that we have been hearing where some people are expecting that banks will kind of use that increase as a means to kind of lift their NIMs and not really compete as much on deposit pricing where others are expecting some of the larger banks to have to compete actively because of their liquidity coverage ratios.
I was wondering how you anticipate things might shake out when we do see rates rising and how competitive deposit pricing competition is likely to be.
There is a lot of unknowns given that this is totally uncharted waters for all institutions given the regulatory framework that you just referenced.
And the rate setting that takes place that impacts us is really kind of a firm-wide discussion.
We will certainly be looking at what the competitors are doing.
I think that there is some sentiment that as rates rise when we get back to maybe more normalized rate environment that not all of that will go the depositors but that’s yet to be determined in terms of what the competition is doing.
We want to do what’s fair for our clients first and foremost.
But we do take rising rates on the short end.
They probably would help our net interest margins around the firm not only at the bank but the fees -- the spread on the other cash that Jeff referenced.
But we only have about $10.5 billion of the $32 plus billion of client cash balances same deployed in the bank currently.
Great.
Even if it gets more competitive I think the assumption that we’re operating under we've already sort of taken that into account because I’ve not heard anybody be as conservative as we are in terms of client sharing of a rise in rates at this point.
Jeff I appreciate the additional color you guys have given it’s very helpful.
And then some questions on the capital market side.
I noticed the hiring that you guys made with the director up in Canada for M&amp;A.
And I was wondering if you could talk about the opportunities you’re seeing up there? And historically how much business you guys have produced for capital markets in the Canadian region? Certainly the mix was Canada did better than us in ’08 and ’09.
’11 was a very strong year for them and it’s been slower since because its commodity based.
So the one thing we do know is in Canada too much has been on financings and we haven’t really had an active M&amp;A business.
So our M&amp;A work where it's half our revenue here less roughly in the U.S.
it’s been episodic in Canada and there is no reason for that.
There is plenty of business.
So we’ve been looking either for a firm or a leader now for a couple of years and finally I was able to recruit someone after a couple of years' effort.
And we think we have the right person to build out an M&amp;A business.
So we think that will certainly help smooth out the Canadian capital markets business.
And I don’t know if we were projecting.
He's just on board Monday.
So we’re not predicting any short term impact on that.
But he's a quite strong person and then a good player and we’ll build the steam around it.
And I think that will help us and smooth out the Canadian business which very simply it’s just a financing business right now.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the risks and opportunities with energy related capital markets in both underwriting and M&amp;A.
I guess we’ve been seeing a little bit a pickup in some secondary issuings in energy.
People are showing off their balance sheets and there is just some discussion about a potential near term lull in amounts and activity as people are kind of hoarding capital levels at this point.
But longer term expectations are pretty strong.
I was wondering what your view is and what you are hearing with discussions with [indiscernible] and how concerned they are relative to their expectation to be opportunistic? I think that our view is kind of reflective of that that first we’re very well positioned in the downstream energy business in particular.
And debt financing maybe off a little bit here.
But M&amp;A activity will pick up and when that is I don’t know.
Now a big deal was announced yesterday right.
So who knows? But we’re in the mix and certainly clients with cash are looking at these prices and looking for opportunities.
And producers that are more leveraged are worried about it.
So there is certainly interest on both sides.
When you get a deal or how long companies feel like they can hold out or when people think the bottom is who knows.
But I do think that if oil prices stay in the 50ish level for some period of time then M&amp;A activity will pick up significantly.
So and we’re lowering that now but we think M&amp;A is a good opportunity and that potentially financings will come back too.
But I can’t predict when that will happen.
Okay I appreciate that insight.
And then last question from me is could you just give us a little a bit more color or insight onto kind of the economics per transaction that were a little less than what we’ve seen before? And is it just kind of a function of where things shook out in certain sectors where maybe you don’t have that dominant position in or was there anything in particular you guys noticed that would cause that to be the case this quarter? It’s just in the positioning and where it shakes out.
And you have used an extreme example.
Last quarter Alibaba went out everyone you would get a teeny piece but at a pretty free.
So if you are in the syndicate at any level and something that size people do well and the smaller sizes are if you're not lead with multiple lead book runners and smaller co-manager positions.
If you were in that co-manager position on smaller deals you're getting a lot less fee per deal.
And in the September quarter we were on -- we get more lead deals and a lot bigger transactions and in this quarter got the same number of transactions.
I think we’re at three or four less lead positions.
But the deals were smaller.
So I don’t think its endemic of anything.
It’s just when the transactions hit and the sectors they hit in.
Okay.
And I guess just one quick follow up.
As we think about the backlog from a non-energy related standpoint are there certain sectors that you guys are seeing more interest in activity and relative to others? I think the interest is still there.
So I don’t know where people across the board in our businesses -- real estate is our biggest practice but I think if you look at transactions across the board [indiscernible].
So the other thing that some people kind of ignore which is a descent sized business versus tax credit deal.
And it’s doing really well.
And we had a bad quarter in terms of closing.
We recognized our fees on partnership closing and they are lumpy.
We had a very good September quarter and this quarter was off just because partnerships didn’t close but the backlog is very very good.
So that also -- that in Canada exacerbated what was a weaker quarter.
Those two made it look a lot weaker than I think it really was.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Jeffrey with KBW.
Certainly appreciate some of the color you gave on the bank's exposure to the energy sector.
Just wondering if I could dig into the little bit deeper.
This may be a bit too specific for you guys if you're willing to answer.
But when you think about sort of the provision levels that you got on these loans would it be essentially relatively higher than what you're seeing on the average of the portfolio or could you give us any more specifics on kind of how you think about provisioning for these? Joel we have 38 borrowers in the energy space.
So it comprises the exposure of we have -- there is $403 million of outstanding loan balances and there is 38 borrowers at the end of December.
Two of the 38 are in criticized categories.
So we have substantially higher reserves on those two names.
It goes without saying we've been very diligent here in the last several months reviewing name-by-name credit-by-credit and also certainly gathering intelligence from our investment banking colleagues and the equity research colleagues that have a lot of expertise in this business.
So we did downgrade even in the past category a few names.
So I would say on average that portfolio has higher provision -- have higher reserves associated with it than our other sectors as a result of the recent commodity price pressure.
So that’s kind of the process and we're watching these names very closely for sure.
But not again and again.
We're not -- sure you're concerned given prices but we're not -- we think the names are well -- have good balance sheets and well financed and certainly prolonged downturn put pressure on everybody.
Yes 75% of the exposure as Paul mentioned to midstream names that typically don’t have as much commodity risk associated with them but continue watch those as well.
And then just Jeff if you could give a little bit more color I want to make sure I understand the commission adjustment.
Did you say you guys -- you could have taken pieces of these charge over the past year or so and kind of why is now the appropriate time to do it? We didn’t know -- we weren’t aware of the issue until we heard about it at other firms that it relates to five years' worth of activity.
This adjustment relates to any potential issues going back five years.
And again it was a systematically produced number for all potential transactions that might fall in this particular category.
So it is five years' worth of activity.
We weren’t aware of the issue until just recently and that’s why it’s kind of a -- it looks like a bigger number than it should be and related to one quarter it'd be almost nothing.
Its small number going over time compared to our total commissions.
It's just when we found it we took -- we recognized it and we just found it and estimated it and so it hits this quarter but we will amortize that over five years particularly small number and very small part of our commission.
Just -- what we are trying to give color to those of you trying to do run rates and things like that that $10 million figure certainly should be a one-time hit to that line item.
And what exactly was the specific issue that addressing? I don’t want to go into a lot of the specifics because it’s still very early in the process but it has to do with which share class of mutual funds were used for certain accounts.
And then just lastly for me in terms of the performance fees in the asset management business I apologize if I missed this before what generated that? We have two accounts that we're still getting performance fees on and I guess both outperformed their benchmarks for the year.
It’s not based on the calendar year performance which is why it hits in the December quarter each year but less -- less than last year.
It was over $10 million last year roughly 10 million last year.
It was about $5.5 million this year related to two accounts that have a performance fee associated with them and one that has non-controlling interest associated with it.
But then I'll follow the bottom-line for us.
Most of it does.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Harris Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey another question on the NIM.
The guidance you guys are giving here flat for the year it's clearly I think a very good outcome given how much the yield curve has flattened.
And guess we're saying some of that is being supported by higher loan spreads.
So I'm wondering in an environment where loan spreads come back in do all a sudden you have kind of a risk to that NIM guidance and really trying to figure out whether that 270s NIM number we had talked about a couple of quarters ago would come into the play under that scenario? Chris our adjusting book is floating.
So the impact really isn’t there.
The question is what happens on new loans and new production and what spread we're willing to invest money in the bank in.
So certainly if we continue to invest and decided to make -- we thought the return versus risk was worth it and you continued in a decreasing spread environment it would impact NIM negatively.
If it stayed flat [indiscernible] we are if rates went up it should -- spreads widen and go the other way.
But it wouldn’t immediate impact the business.
That would depend on the new production and what you brought in.
And how much you participate We pass on deals all the time because it will take the return is adequate for the risk we’re taking.
So… And just because the 10 years yield is down it doesn’t it’s going to compress.
And in fact usually the 10 year yield comes down when its economic problems and people are fleeing to safety.
So that actually can widen corporate spread which is kind of what we’ve seen here recently.
So I wouldn’t tie corporate spreads to 10 year and expect maybe inversely.
Right but I was just wondering if loan spreads came back down whether we'd get into that 270 zone.
It would if we participated and over time we'd have to run off what’s in the portfolio and replace it with the lower spread.
Right so will be some time for having a bigger impact.
Follow up question on the recruiting.
Great quarter for you guys.
It sounds like the pipeline is really good.
I'm just wondering was there anything that happened this quarter to create such a large number the 70 plus advisors that you added.
Or might this be kind of a descent run rate for you going forward given how good the pipeline looks? No if you look at it it’s been lumpy.
Last quarter wasn’t as big and two quarters was big.
So it’s just when they show up.
And we’re only partially in control of that.
They have to slightly come over.
And so that is certainly -- if you'd tell me we could repeat this quarter three more times I'd take it.
I'd sign for it right now.
So it was an exceptional quarter.
But I’ll tell you the pipeline is very good and we think that we’re going to -- our target ought to do more than we did last year and last year was our second best year and so far we're on our targets.
But it could stop tomorrow it could go up and a lot of that not just dependent on us.
It’s dependent on the markets and frankly a lot of it is dependent on what competitors the larger banks do because that has more impact on investors -- on advisors leaving than what we do.
When these advisors come on do you guys get all the assets right away and so in other words all that assets come over is there a lag effect that happens so on advisor? There is a lag.
And for the larger advisors we say we get 70%ish in the first year and then the rest comes on after that and they typically are growing their business because they’re good advisors.
So it doesn’t all come over day one.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to pick your brains in the capital management strategy.
I know it comes up every once in a while.
But plenty of capital you guys deployed at the bank prudently but the share count continues to creep up slightly.
So any updated thoughts on I guess A at what point would you consider deploying some capital into the buyback as the multiple at least in the earnings basis is not egregious? And I guess secondarily maybe an update on as you bring all these new FAs in does that partially impact the creeping share account? And maybe just kind of what is the annual creep in the share count from RSUs and things like that? Our increase in share count is pretty steady.
I'll let Jeff address that.
It really has more to do with year-end comps than Fas per se but if you look at capital we are deploying a good chunk lately in bank growth and Fas bringing up days on.
So if you look at free cash it’s between bonuses and bringing people on it's down a bit.
We still have capital to employ.
We’re still looking at acquisitions.
We’re very disciplined.
As I said before we looked at a lot of them and if we can’t -- they're not a complete set.
And certainly first culture secondly strategic and third is price and we’ve had a number of conversations where price doesn’t work.
So we still think we can deploy capital but we’re very very disciplined which people should feel happy with.
And if we think we truly effect such capital we can’t use we’ll look at alternatives of deploying it.
At this state we think we can use our capital wisely.
And in terms of share count we typically have been -- we had been and between 1% to 1.5% a year type dilution really almost exclusively all the equity we issue has been retention oriented.
We use both incentive and non-qualified options as well as restricted stock units and we use them for producers.
We use them for our management people.
We use them for highly compensated people whatever category they fall in as a portion of their comp E [ph] shares and shares.
So it’s really meant to keep people in their seats long term which has been a successful program for us because you know certainly in the FA world you know our turnover statistics are lower by far than the industry averages.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Just maybe just a question on flows and what you’re seeing in your retail customer base.
It seems if we kind of try to back into what the net flows were it seems like over the last two quarters they’ve slowed from the first half.
And just trying to -- is that just simply a function of market volatility or anything else? Just any insight you have on sort of what your customer flow dynamic is right now and how you see that developing ahead or accelerate the recruitment effort? Thanks.
I can’t say I’ve seen any slowing.
A lot of our net flows are dependent on our recruiting which is going well.
And so when you get good quarters with lots of people as they bring on our assets it will pick back up some.
So I can’t see anything overall that says our expected net flows should change.
Jim one thing you sort of have to be careful with when you project flows using maybe one index -- one stock market index and our clients have a diversified portfolio of fixed income cash and equities and even within equity that's not all represented by the S&amp;P 500 there is international there is small cap et cetera.
So sometimes our analysis could be skewed if you’re using just S&amp;P 500 to track flow -- to estimate flows in PCGs is what I would tell you.
That’s fair.
So you could resolve that by just giving us the numbers.
If we knew them we would tell you.
We track those very closely in asset management for assets under management.
We track outflows but we don’t we haven’t tracked it as closely on the overall.
If a lot of the FAs affiliate with us in this last quarter their assets may come over largely in this next quarter.
So there is a lag effect to that as well.
I put that in -- we know the best -- we think the trends are there but when people say what’s the spend you’re going to do and I always say if I knew that I wouldn’t be working.
So who knows? Right and I guess any major shift in how your clients allocating over the last quarter or two? Is it more equities less equities just curious? Equity inflows have been okay some [ph] actually.
So it’s not huge but it’s not… Overall mix hasn’t changed much in the last two quarters.
And really in the last year.
Most of the mix change has been more for market appreciation.
We have a financial planning orientation here.
So our base doesn’t tend to follow equities or fixed income to the extent that some other trading firms do with more stable asset mix.
Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Bill Katz with Citigroup.
This is Neil again from Citi.
Just had a quick question.
Given the NIM guidance you have given for the bank do you have an outlook for the NIM for RJF when you include all the interest saving assets to the firm? We don’t think of it NIM terms.
Yes we really don’t.
Again that’s a difficult calculation Neil because a lot of the cash balances shift from on balance sheet to off balance sheet and once they shift off balance sheet to other banks and that doesn’t show up in interest income that shows up as fee income.
So it’s a little bit of a difficult calculation just based on the mix of whether that cash is being deployed on balance sheet or off balance sheet.
We focus a lot on total net interest earnings at the holding company level.
We don’t really focus much as much.
That’s impacted by inventory level.
How much of inventory we finance.
A lot of other factors that I think would render a NIM at the holding company a little less meaningful than it does at the bank.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I think we ran up in a very good start for the year.
And I know the frustration is predicting a lot of this is around capital markets and both globally and domestically that’s just difficult to predict what the economy is going to do.
But again I start by saying that shorter-term it's always hard to look at numbers and this next quarter tends to have some elevated expense just by the nature of our business.
So longer-term if you look at the growth in assets the growth in loans the growth in advisors those are the things that drive a vast majority of our business and there are all very positive.
So I feel good about our positioning for the long-term certainly for the year.
Next quarter it's just -- the rest of the business is variable and transaction oriented and hard to predict.
I wish we could give you better guidance.
If we had a strong feel we'd know but it’s just hard to predict in this economy.
So with that we appreciate your time.
We look forward to the next quarter and we're going to go back to work.
Thank you Felicia.
Thank you.
And this concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.