Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday April 25 2013.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Byron Hinson Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings conference call including those who are joining us on the webcast.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the first quarter of 2013.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and economic development in our service territory.
Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referred to in this call are available at SCANA.com.
Before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Byron and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the first quarter of 2013 were $1.13 per share compared to $0.93 per share in the same quarter of 2012.
Higher electric and gas margins were primarily offset by increases in CapEx-related costs such as depreciation property taxes interest expense and share dilution.
Our results during the first quarter of 2013 were slightly better than our forecast due primarily to timing of O&amp;M expenses.
As we projected in our February call we took down the 6.6 million shares under our equity forward during March.
For the remainder of the year we expect comparable basic earnings per share to moderate due to the related dilution.
Now on Slide 4 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's first quarter 2013 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.13 compared to 2012 driven largely by base rate increases along with customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in interest and depreciation expenses and share dilution.
PSNC Energy's earnings for the first quarter 2013 shown in red were $0.24 per share and consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
Increases in margin due to customer growth were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses and depreciation expenses.
SCANA Energy the company's retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia reported first quarter 2013 earnings of $0.16 per share compared to $0.09 per share in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase is primarily attributable to a return to normal weather.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses which include Carolina Gas Transmission SCANA Communications ServiceCare SCANA Energy Marketing and the holding company reported earnings of $0.05 per share consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
Next I would like to touch on sales growth as shown on Slide 5.
We continue to see growth in weather-normalized sales volumes.
For the 12 months ended March 31 2013 total weather-normalized electric sales to residential and commercial customers were up approximately 2.5% and 0.7% respectively.
Industrial sales were down approximately 0.9% primarily due to reduced production at one of our largest customers as a result of a fire as we've discussed in prior quarters.
As we have mentioned previously we evaluate weather-normalized sales on a 12-month rolling basis in order to capture an entire business cycle.
Because of this the impact of the fire is reflected in our industrial volumes.
Excluding the impact of the fire we estimate industrial sales would have increased approximately 0.5% while total weather-normalized retail sales would have increased approximately 1.4%.
On the bottom left-hand side of the slide you will find the information about economic trends in our service territories.
We continue to be encouraged by the level of economic development activity with approximately $1.1 billion announced investment and over 2 600 jobs in our Carolinas territories this year.
A significant portion of these investments and jobs are due to a recent announcement by Boeing Corporation that plans to invest another $1 billion and add at least 2 000 more jobs at its North Charleston campus.
Our electric customer base grew at a rate of 0.8% this past quarter continuing to show stable growth.
Growth at our regulated gas businesses in South and North Carolina continues to be strong.
As of March 2013 those rates were 1.8% for SCE&amp;G gas and 2.2% for PSNC.
PSNC had its best growth rate since 2008.
PSNC also hit a milestone this quarter as they exceeded 500 000 customers.
Slide 6 presents our CapEx forecast which has not changed since our previous earnings call.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed on February 13 and reflects our new CapEx budget for 2013 through 2015.
Along the bottom of the slide you can see our anticipated incremental nuclear CWIP as of June 30.
This represents the incremental CWIP from July 1 through June 30 for each period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
As you can see from the slide we're beginning to enter a period of nuke -- peak nuclear spending.
Please turn to Slide 7 to review our financing plan.
This slide presents our estimated financing plan through 2017 and is also consistent with the forecast on our last call.
As I mentioned we settled our equity forward resulting in the issuance of 6.6 million shares in early March.
We don't anticipate any additional equity issuances for the balance of 2013 other than through our 401(k) and dividend reinvestment plans.
We continue to anticipate new First Mortgage Bond issuances to support new nuclear construction later in the year.
Please turn to Slide 8.
We are reaffirming our earnings guidance of $3.25 to $3.45 basic earnings per share along with our internal target of $3.35 per share.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on 2012 GAAP basic earnings per share of $3.20.
I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy and let me start by addressing an issue we have been dealing with since last year but has gained notoriety in the past few days based on a press release issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission on Monday.
SCE&amp;G has requested a regulatory conference with the NRC based on the NRC's preliminary categorization of a finding during a construction inspection.
The NRC assigned a color coding -- sorry the NRC assigns a color coding to findings based on their determination of safety significance.
The range of colors is green white yellow and red with green being the least significant.
A green finding is defined as one of having very low safety significance.
In this instance we were preliminary issued a white finding the next lowest level which indicates a low to moderate safety significance.
We have not previously received a finding of greater than green on a construction and we believe that this one should also be green which is why we requested the conference.
This is not a new issue having first been raised last September and we have discussed it on previous earnings calls.
It deals with shear reinforcement spacing and the use of T-heads in the concrete basemat.
We corrected the problem prior to pouring the basemat which was completed on March 11 and no additional work on the basemat will be needed regardless of the outcome of this conference.
In addition we identified a similar condition that exists in other wall sections of the nuclear island.
We are submitting license amendment requests or LARs to document the change and gain NRC approval and we expect to receive those LARs shortly.
And we'll then be able to begin pouring these wall sections.
We continue to anticipate that Unit 2 will become operational in 2017 and Unit 3 in 2018.
I would now like to direct your attention to Slide 9.
As I mentioned previously in March we completed the placement of the nuclear island basemat sometimes referred to as first nuclear concrete or FNC.
That event marked the first new such construction of nuclear concrete to be poured in the United States in 3 decades.
Basemat provides a foundation for the containment building shield building and auxilliary building that make up the nuclear island.
Measuring 6 feet in thickness the basemat covered a surface totaling 32 000 square feet and it took just over 50 hours of continuous pouring to complete.
We're very pleased with the collaborative efforts of our partners in making this concrete pour a success.
Please turn now to Slide 10.
At the beginning of April we set the 500-ton CR-10 module on the Unit 2 basemat.
This module had been previously assembled on-site and was lifted into place using the heavy lift derrick.
CR-10 supports the containment vessel.
One of the next steps for Unit 2 will be to set the containment vessel bottom head in the CR-10 module.
The bottom head has also been previously assembled on-site.
On the top left of Slide 11 you can see a picture of the switchyard.
The switchyard was energized and turned over to SCE&amp;G in January of this year.
This gives us the ability to back feed to the 2 new nuclear plants to perform testing when the time comes.
At the top right of that same slide you will see a picture of cooling tower 2 Alpha.
Progress on all 4 low-profile forced-draft cooling towers continues to progress as anticipated.
On the bottom left you will see the Unit 2 turbine building.
The basemat for the Unit 2 turbine building is complete and the forming and pouring of the walls has begun.
At bottom right you will see a picture of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
Leveling concrete has been poured and the lower mud mat is complete.
Installation of the waterproof membrane in the upper mud mat will be completed in the coming months and the basemat will follow.
Again the schedule continues to support commercial operation dates in 2017 for Unit 2 and 2018 for Unit 3.
As you can see on Slide 12 we have 2 Base Load Review Act or BLRA filings coming up in May.
Around mid-May we will file our quarterly status update with the Public Service Commission.
And on May 30th we will make our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
Both of these filings will be made available for review in the Investor Relations section of SCANA.com That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Travis Miller with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you can walk through some of the cost implications that might be related to the NRC finding the meeting anything related to that potentially? Travis this is Steve Byrne.
At this point in time we are still hopeful that we will be able to make our case that this is a lower safety significant item than the NRC perhaps preliminary thought it was.
And that -- if that's the case we won't see any changes to the cost of the project based on this.
Really when you look at the significance determination process that the NRC goes through in categorizing these findings even if it were to be categorized as a white finding what that would mean for us is increased inspection.
And of course I don't know at this point how much increased inspection.
That really becomes a burden on our staff the cost of which would be difficult to quantify.
But there is no direct correlation to say that if you get a finding it's going to cost you x because we would not anticipate a fine from this.
So from a cost point of view we don't think it's going to be material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that relates to the capital investment potentially or CapEx.
Also you won't expect to see much impact on that side? That's correct we would not.
Your next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Moseh for Julien.
Just a quick question on retail.
Any chance if you guys could give us an update on your outlook and expectations for retail in Georgia prospectively? Yes.
It really hasn't changed since what we guided at the year-end call in February.
So we expect that business on a normal weather basis to be about $0.18 to $0.20 a share in earnings for 2013.
And the first quarter of 2013 was normal.
It's just that the first quarter of '12 as compared to was so abnormal almost 50% below in heating degree days.
So we're right on track so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just going back to nuclear for a second.
Just kind of help us understand how this safety violation kind of differs from Southern's rebar issue? It's the same issue.
The rebar issue that they had at Southern initially was the same issue that we had.
And in fact it came up at our plant.
So when we talk about the rebar issue for the basemat this is the same issue.
And again it was corrected prior to us pouring the basemat and the same thing would be the case for Southern corrected prior to them pouring their basemat.
So there's no impact to the basemat from this violation.
Your next question is from Leslie Rich with JPMorgan.
Inc.</strong> I wondered if I could ask you to review again you said you need to file another license amendment request for the walls.
I wondered if you could just go through that again.
Sure.
Similar to the way we handled the basemat we filed a license amendment request to handle the changes that we wanted to make to the basemat.
And if you remember that issue probably from our last earnings call we did some physical changes to the reinforcing bar in the basemat and we also changed the applicable code section from the concrete code from one section to another.
So for the wall section we're going to do the same thing.
So we'll change the reference from ACI 349 to ACI 318 and then we'll do some physical changes to the reinforcing bar itself.
Now those -- for the lower levels the critical sections the ones that we're going to need next we have already submitted that license amendment request to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and expect approval of that relatively soon.
And we think that more than likely there will be other license amendment requests for the upper levels these will be levels that obviously we won't be needing for some time in the months or years to come.
Inc.</strong> So I guess this license amendment request process is it getting a little bit more streamlined? And when the first one was filed it was sort of potentially a big deal.
Now is it just more "Oh we have a change here we have a change there?" It's not likely to be hung up at the NRC for any extended period of time? Leslie I think as with everything else the more often you do it on our side and on the regulator side they become more efficient at handling and processing them so I do expect some efficiencies to be gained there.
But to their credit even with the basemat license amendment requests and preliminary approval request that we submitted the NRC did exactly what they said that they would do and pretty well followed their timeline.
So we have no complaints about how expeditiously they processed those changes and we would anticipate similar handling of these changes.
Your next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just some nuts and bolts questions.
First of all O&amp;M was basically flat on a year-over-year basis.
Just curious because when you -- in some of your prior slides from last year you outlined some of the pressures like pension like environmental cost that were embedded in the rate case but would also create upward movement in O&amp;M.
It didn't look like that flowed through.
Just kind of would love your thoughts on what happened there.
Sure.
Those costs did flow through.
The reason they might not appear on the surface is they were offset by other kind of reductions.
We had 2 or 3 things going on in the first quarter that will relate to what we call internally timing.
They're going to show up later in the year rather than in the first quarter when we initially expected and let me give you a couple of examples.
We had some really -- we had a really mild January and we had a really wet and cold February and March.
Overall it was statistically normal.
So for example the Georgia business ended up like I said earlier with normal weather.
However with very mild weather in January and the colder weather at the end of the quarter we really didn't see the same level of bad debts or write-offs that we had expected in Q1.
A lot of those bills are just showing up in April and May to the customers.
So we expect there may be a couple of cents of that that trickles over into Q2.
We didn't have any significant storms that would require us to hit our storm deductible which is $2.5 million a year before we go against our storm reserve.
We didn't hit any of that but we had hit some of it in the past comparative quarter.
We were lower than expected on our vegetation management our tree trimming in Q1 because of that wet weather prevented the guys from being out there and executing on some of those plans.
So those were some of the things that were really netting and offsetting those costs that are there that we discussed earlier.
Research Division</strong> And so when we think about what's embedded in your 2013 guidance what should we assume kind of year-over-year O&amp;M growth? Yes well as we discussed a couple of months ago on the year-end call I said overall we expected to be in the close to 5% range.
And about half of that is driven by amortized costs that are coming out of the rate case order pension costs those kinds of things.
So on the net at this point I really see it maybe being slightly less than that maybe 4% to 4.5% but not significantly less.
I think it will still show up in the full overall period.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So a little bit more back-end loaded rather than kind of spread? Like we were assuming it was just kind of spread evenly throughout the quarters.
Yes.
And frankly we presumed some of that in our plan too but we can't tell in advance what the weather's going to be and the rain's going to be and the storms.
That's reality.
Research Division</strong> One follow-on just trying to get a feel for how much of the rate increases that were granted at SCE&amp;G going into 2013 really just the core base rate not the nuclear.
How much of that has already been incurred that you benefited from versus what's left over to take rest of the year? Well it started January 1 so we've got a full quarter in there.
And I don't know the exact cyclical breakdown of it.
But net of those related costs you and I were discussing earlier it's probably $0.02 to $0.03 earnings contribution in Q1 net of those costs.
But I don't really have the revenue breakdown on a cyclical basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And finally just from a reporting perspective how do you all allocate the holding company debt when you show your segment EPS? Yes that's really rolled up in the holdco and others in that category that's not broken out in any of the separating opcos.
So it remains in there netted with the others.
Your next question is from Jonathan Reeder with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned that you're still on track for 2017 and '18 for the new nuclear units.
Is that still March and May respectively? Jonathan we haven't had any changes to the in-service dates that we last took to our commission.
Now with the Base Load Review Act order we do have some schedule flexibility and so it's 18 months before we would have to go back and say we were not on schedule.
So as of this point in time I don't have any information to say that we're going to be outside of the specific dates that we have in our last order which you just mentioned March and May.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Jimmy on the trailing 12-months weather-normalized retail sales growth of 1.4% the adjusted amount is that net of the energy efficiency efforts? I'm just kind of wondering since I believe your 2013 guidance embeds only 0.5% usage growth for the whole year.
Yes we're using 12 months rolling so that's including 3 quarters from 2012 and the first quarter of '13.
We try to do that just take out some of the -- to get a full cycle in there.
And I think what you were talking about our plan for '13 obviously excludes those prior periods in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But is the 1.4% is that net of energy efficiency efforts? Because I know you're kind of indicating the 0.5% for 2013 reflected a headwind from some efficiency efforts in particular kind of CFL bulb adoption and stuff like that.
Yes net we expect to be somewhere around 0.5% or slightly less overall retail growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does that mean -- I guess you feel pretty comfortable that that's on the conservative side if anything right now based on how Q1 shaped up? No I wouldn't really say that.
I'd say I feel like it's pretty accurate at this point.
I wouldn't characterize it as conservative or aggressive either way.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Going to your Slide 6 on the CapEx I was wondering if you could update what you've spent in the first quarter? No Dan I really don't -- I don't have that handy with me here now.
But on the general part of the business other than generation which tends to be projects and when we do those in the shoulder months so either the spring or the fall generally the others is going to flow fairly ratably throughout the year.
And the new nuclear Steve I don't know if you have any comments to characterize? I don't yet have the first quarter update.
Yes we really don't have that.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
And I was curious on the prior Slide 5 if you had -- could give any color? You talked a little bit about on the industrial what the impact for the customer with the fire.
But have you seen any change in trend among the industrial classes is that improving or about the same or any color related to that? It's really a case-by-case deal.
In fact I was looking over those a couple of days ago at our top 30 or 40 customers and it's kind of a hodgepodge.
There's not any one certain trend or it's not like all are flat like the average is.
As you might imagine there's some volatility on both sides of that.
Somewhat sector specific there will be fits and starts with housing and chemicals and things of that nature but nothing really stands out as a trend Dan.
Your next question is from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
You've already addressed most of them.
Just a bookkeeping one what was the basic and diluted share count ending the quarter after the equity floor was drawn? Yes Page 4 of the press release right at the bottom of that page you can get those.
So basic it was 134.4 million; diluted 136.1 million.
Wasn't that the average for the quarter? I'm asking the ending.
If you're looking for an ending...
Like what's going forward what should we be assuming? Yes you're going to -- we're going to put that in the 10-Q.
It will be filed in another week or so.
But the year-end number we took down 6.6 million shares.
So I mean the actual number outstanding is just slightly under 140 million but it will take a full 12 months for that to average into the annual average for sure.
Your next question is from Tim Winter with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if you could just kind of talk about some of the puts and takes with the equity going forward your stock's hitting an all-time high again today.
And the forward how did that work out for you and what are you thinking going forward? Yes well I might just refer those over if you have the slides nearby to Page 7 so nothing has changed since the last call on this.
We still estimate about $500 million of equity in addition to that that would come through our K and dividend reinvestment plans and that would cover the balance of the construction of the projects.
We indicate that in kind of that blue hash box because it may or may not occur just like it's laid out there on the chart.
The forward helped us a great deal in that we did the forward originally in the middle of 2010.
We had expected to take it down in 6 to 9 months based on the planned construction schedule.
Because of the bonus depreciation stimulus passed by Congress because of some of the change in our tax strategies we really didn't need that cash at that point so we extended the forward twice.
So on one hand it's really worked out well that we avoided the basic dilution for close to 3 years.
On the other hand the market -- frankly you guys have been about 50-50 some have included it in -- you picked up diluted some have picked up basic.
So it's kind of a hodgepodge.
So it certainly helped our actual earnings per share on a basic basis.
But it's been a little bit of a disappointment that it's just an odd animal as I've discussed before and about half the market has followed on the diluted basis.
So I just see it really different than options or something like that so it does have that drawback.
How we do it going forward? We're going to continue to monitor this.
The good news is we don't need any more for the balance of the year other than what we would get through the plans which is kind of pro rata each quarter.
And we'll watch the market and see what's going on watch the projected inflation with the project and the project schedule.
And it's just too early to tell any more about when or how we'll do that.
Your next question is from Andy Levi with Avon Capital.
Actually most of my questions were answered but just a follow-up.
I guess based on your comments it's safe to kind of say that your opinion of a forward sale is not as favorable as it was since you've experienced the forward sale.
Is that kind of what you're trying to say? I'm glad we did it.
I wish it did not come with the baggage of the dilution associated with it.
Because again about half of the market has focused on the diluted and about half have focused on basic.
I wish it were clear there.
But no if I had to do it over again knowing everything we know now it would still be the best option because it gave us that flexibility for such a period of time.
[indiscernible] question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jimmy real quick follow-up.
Tax this year how big of a difference do you expect between booked and GAAP in cash taxes? Or how impactful how much do you expect in terms of cash flow related to bonus D&amp;A? Yes bonus D&amp;A we expect to be somewhere in the $70 million to $90 million range for 2013.
And the effective tax rate we projected at the beginning of the year and it's held through so far at about 32%.
So I can't tell you exactly what the cash basis will be but it will start ramping up here this year or so.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Meaning the $80 million of bonus D&amp;A is basically the only major offset to book taxes you can imagine from a cash tax perspective? Well we've got one other one in that change in our tax strategy the 263A but it's not as significant as the bonus depreciation.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Jimmy Addison for any closing remarks.
Well thank you and thank you all.
To summarize we're very pleased with our results for the first quarter of 2013.
We remain on track to meet our target and have met several major milestones with our new nuclear project.
And finally I want to again mention our upcoming Analyst Day event to be held in New York on June 5.
Please mark your calendars and plan to attend either in person or online.
And we thank you for you joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
Please disconnect your lines.