Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
I apologize for the technical issues and delay experienced earlier.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday October 30 2014.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our earnings call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing a link to the new nuclear section of the website that further contains a link to project news and updates.
In connection with this process we have discontinued our practice of furnishing on Form 8-K the quarterly reports that SCE&amp;G submits to the Public Service Commission of South Carolina and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff.
Instead the company now posts copies of these reports on the SCANA website.
Please note that we have recently added an other investment information link to the yellow box.
The new other investor information section of the website contains a link to recent investor-related information that cannot be found at other areas of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material information that is not otherwise become public.
In addition I want to remind you that you can sign up under the Investor Relations section of scana.com for e-mail alerts for financial reports and press releases.
You can now also sign up for e-mail alerts when there is a new posting in the new nuclear and/or the other investor information yellow box.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
I will now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the third quarter of 2014 were $1.01 per share compared to $0.94 per share in the same quarter of 2013.
Please note that the electric weather normalization pilot ended in December 2013 and the company's financial results are now impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly the improved results in the third quarter are attributable to increases in electric margins due to abnormal weather continued recovery of financing costs through the Base Load Review Act or BLRA and customer growth.
We estimate the impact of abnormal weather added $0.07 per share in electric margins for the quarter.
These increases were partially offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx-related items including property taxes depreciation interest expense and share dilution.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the 9 months ended September 30 2014 were $3.06 per share versus $2.67 in 2013.
Increases in electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher expenses and dilution related to our capital program.
We estimate abnormal weather added $0.23 per share to electric margins on a year-to-date basis.
Now on Slide 5 I'd like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's third quarter 2014 earnings denoted in blue were up $0.11 compared to 2013.
This was driven largely by increases in electric margins which were due primarily to abnormal weather continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses as well as expenses related to our capital program including property taxes interest expense and share dilution.
Year-to-date basic earnings were higher by $0.39 due primarily to higher electric and gas margins.
PSNC Energy shown in red reported a seasonal loss of $0.02 for the third quarter of 2014 compared to a loss of $0.03 for the same quarter of 2013.
For the 9-month period ended September 30 2014 basic earnings were up $0.02 per share over the same period of 2013.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green reported a seasonal loss for the third quarter of $0.02 per share compared to a loss of $0.03 for the third quarter of 2013.
Year-to-date earnings were $0.11 per share consistent with the prior year.
SCANA's corporate and other businesses reported the loss of $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2014 compared to flat earnings for the third quarter of the prior year.
This is primarily the result of lower margin in the Energy Marketing business and higher interest expense at the holding company.
For the 9-month period these businesses reported basic earnings of $0.02 in 2014 compared to $0.04 in 2013.
I'd like to touch on the economic trends in our service territory on Slide 6.
We continue to see new business growth and expansion of existing businesses.
So far in 2014 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $630 million with expectations of creating over 6 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
Obviously one of the largest economic development activities currently ongoing in the state of South Carolina is the building of 2 new nuclear units at V.C.
Summer station.
The construction workforce now numbers over 3 000 along with the addition of over 500 full-time employees hired directly by SCE&amp;G to begin preparation to operate the plants once construction is complete.
To meet the demands for these new nuclear workforce programs have been created at various colleges and universities creating further economic expansion.
The majority of contract employees are from the state of South Carolina or from the region.
So the project is significantly impacting the local and state economy.
Its operation will enable South Carolina to support continued economic growth while producing clean efficient energy for decades to come.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with rates for 3 states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina's unemployment rate is now 6.6% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 6.1%.
Impacting the state's unemployment rate is the introduction of approximately 17 000 people to the workforce since last quarter.
However the employment outlook still remains positive as over 21 000 South Carolinians have found work and the state unemployment rate has dropped by 7/10 of a point since September of 2013.
Slide 7 presents customer growth in electric rates.
On the top of the slide our customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G's electric business added customers at an annual rate of 1.3%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at an identical 2.5% rate.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended September 30 2014.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 7/10 of a percent on a 12 months ended basis driven mainly by strong industrial demand.
We continued to see slightly lower weather-normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated efficiencies.
Now please turn to Slide 8 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $8.8 billion.
As denoted in the 2 shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric business in which were allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended September 30 in the electric business is approximately 10% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page.
On our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
The Public Service Commission of South Carolina recently approved our request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $561 million to our rate base.
And we will implement a rate increase in November of approximately 2.8%.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses close to those returns.
SCE&amp;G's gas business returns are measured each year through the rate stabilization act.
We recently received approval for a small decrease effective with the first billing cycle in November which equates to a $2.6 million reduction on an annual basis.
Slide 9 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reported in our latest BLRA quarterly report filed in August and does not include any additional cost or scheduled delays estimated by the Consortium as we are in the midst of the negotiation process at this time.
At the bottom of the slide we recapped the new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the period on which the BLRA increase is calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 10 to review our estimated financing plan through 2018.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it's unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes and funding needs for planned project expenses.
On May 27 of this year SCE&amp;G issued $300 million of 50-year bonds at 4.5%.
On the equity side we've issued approximately $75 million from our 401(k) matching and DRIP plans and continue to target 52% to 54% equity levels at the operating company SCE&amp;G.
However based upon cash flows and the planned construction payments to date we have pushed $100 million of additional equity issuances from 2014 to 2015 to meet our targeted cap structure as I suggested was a possibility on our previous call.
We currently estimate we will not require any of this deferred equity until the latter half of 2015.
Similarly we are deferring the planned $300 million debt issuance from Q4 2014 to Q1 2015.
Overall we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Obviously the construction delay has slowed expenditures but they were also significantly reduced by lower-than-anticipated escalation as well.
The delay is a matter of timing but the escalation on those components already received or completed will result in permanent savings.
We're very pleased to report that earlier this month we successfully extended our largest credit facility by 1 year.
The facility totaled $1.6 billion and covers 5 years and now will expire in October of 2019.
The additional liquidity is important to our nuclear construction.
We also have an additional $200 million for peak construction liquidity at SCE&amp;G which will expire in October 2016.
I would like to thank our banks for their support of our liquidity needs and therefore our nuclear project.
Now on Slide 11.
Remaining unchanged is our long-term outlook of 3% to 6% growth over the 3- to 5-year period based on the 2013 weather-normalized base of $3.40 of basic earnings per share.
We're adjusting our guidance for 2014 to reflect our results to date through the third quarter.
Our previous range of $3.45 to $3.65 is adjusted to $3.70 to $3.90.
This reflects the $0.23 of weather experienced year-to-date in the electric business and the expectation of normal weather in Q4.
We continue to estimate that our effective tax rate for 2014 will be approximately 32%.
And I'll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I want to begin by discussing the preliminary new nuclear construction schedule on cost information we received from the Consortium.
As previously discussed the Consortium began a full free baselining of V.C.
Summer Unit 2 and Unit 3 construction schedules to incorporate project delays associated with engineering completion construction lessons learned and component procurement and fabrication.
In August we received preliminary information relative to this rebaselining in which the Consortium indicated that the substantial completion of Unit 2 is expected to occur in late 2018 or the first half of 2019 and that the substantial completion of Unit 3 would be approximately 12 months later.
As indicated in our website in the new nuclear deployment or NND yellow box update the Consortium has provided preliminary EPC cost estimates principally related to these delays to achieve the late 2018 substantial completion date for Unit 2.
SCE&amp;G's 55% portion of this preliminary estimate has approximately $660 million which is in 2007 dollars and would be subject to escalation.
It also excludes any owner's cost amounts associated with the delays.
The $200 million that we referred to in previous disclosures starting at our June 2013 Annual Analyst Meeting regarding potential cost increases associated with prior schedule delays included escalations on owner's costs.
So excluding the amounts attributable to those items the balance of the $200 million is included in the $660 million and would not be an addition to it.
The EPC costs fall roughly into 3 buckets: fixed; firm; or target costs.
The target costs are impacted by changes in the construction schedule as major -- a major component of this bucket is labor.
Other non-EPC cost components impacted by the delays in the construction schedule and not included in the $660 million estimate are owner's costs and escalation costs.
It is too early to determine owner's costs as we are in the midst of negotiation processing with the Consortium.
while the preliminary schedule on cost estimates are under review by SCE&amp;G in Santee Cooper and it is anticipated that further study evaluation and negations associations will occur we cannot predict when the revised schedule on cost estimates will be finalized.
The preliminary cost estimates and preliminary substantial completion dates do not reflect consideration of the liquidated damages provision of the EPC contract which would partly mitigate any such delays.
They also do not reflect all of the possible efforts to mitigate the delay on a schedule.
Further neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted the new preliminary schedule or finance responsibility associated with these delays.
Once the final revised schedule on cost estimate has been negotiated we will be able to quantify owner's costs and escalation based upon the revised in-service dates.
Filing for a new order under the Base Load Review Act will be required if the scheduled in-service date exceeds the current 18-month contingency which would be September 2018 for Unit 2 and/or as a change in the project costs.
Once we have negotiated a finalized revised schedule and cost estimate SCE&amp;G if required will file a petition requesting a new order with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina.
Should SCE&amp;G file a petition Public Service Commission would have 6 months to issue its order.
SCE&amp;G provided its annual update on the progress of new nuclear units to the Public Service Commission and allow ex parte briefing held on October 15.
I also wanna mention that last week the South Carolina Supreme Court issued an opinion unanimously affirming the November 2012 decision of the Public Service Commission which authorized SCE&amp;G to modify its construction schedule and include $273 million of cost when it's capital cost under the Base Load Review Act.
I'd now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Please turn to Slide 12.
On this slide you can see an aerial photo of the new nuclear construction site from about 18 months ago just prior to the first nuclear concrete for Unit 2.
I've circled the Unit 2 Unit 3 Cooling Tower 2 Alpha and the containment vessel fabrication area.
These are areas we see significant progress by going to Slide 13.
Slide 13 is an aerial photo from May of this year.
You've seen this photo a few times now but in comparison to where things stood about 18 months ago you can really see how the project is progressing.
Clearly Cooling Tower 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are structurally complete with work progressing on the other 2.
You also see the lower bowl and structural module CA-20 in place in the Unit 2 nuclear island along with significantly more work in the containment vessel assembly area.
On Slide 14 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
In this picture you can see CA-20 along with the containment vessel Ring 1 which has been placed on the containment vessel lower bowl.
The lower bowl is not covered by the auxiliary building and they are coming up to elevation 100.
Elevation 100 must be achieved in order to begin work on the annex building which will house the electrical switch gear for plant.
On Slide 15 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 2.
This ring is complete and will be set after placement of structural module CA-01 and CA-05.
Slide 16 shows a schematic of the modules inside the containment vessel.
And here you can see the locations of the previously mentioned module CA-01 and CA-05 which we will further discuss shortly.
Slide 17 shows a recent picture of Unit 2 module CA-01.
Module CA-01 houses the steam generators the pressurizer and forms our fueling canal inside the containment vessel.
Currently we have 46 of 47 submodules on-site and 18 of those submodules are upright and being assembled in the Module Assembly Building or MAB.
Slide 18 and 19 show pictures of the Unit 2 module CA-05.
This module comprises one of the major wall sections within the containment vessel.
On Slide 18 you can see module CA-05 being moved outside of the MAB to attempt for the addition of the final wall panel submodules.
Slide 19 shows module CA-05 inside the tent with the final submodules have been placed and final wells were completed.
This module is ready for hook and we anticipate placing it in the Unit 2 containment vessel by the end of the year.
Slide 20 shows a picture of the Unit 3 nuclear island.
Here you can see where the containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and the auxiliary building walls are beginning to take shape.
Turning to Slide 21 you can see a picture of the unit 2 turbine building.
All of the modules have been completed and placed on the turbine building base map and progress has been made on the structural steel for the surrounding turbine building itself.
The turbine building is now getting prepared for placement of the turbine rotors and generator which will go on top of these structural steel modules.
Slide 22 shows a picture of the turbine building module CH-80 and CH-82 for Unit 3 as they're being assembled outside of the turbine building excavation.
Slide 23 may look familiar as you probably remember pictures we have previously shown of the massive Unit 2 Deaerator component being transported to the site.
However this is a new picture of the unit 3 Deaerator as it crosses interstate 95.
This component is now on site.
Slide 24 shows a Unit 2 shield building panel.
We have now received 26 of the 167 panels that will be provided by Newport News Industries for the project.
These panels will be welded together and concrete will be poured inside of the panels to create a shield building.
Slide 25 shows a 3 Unit 2 main transformers and a spare.
This component is sometimes referred to as generator step-up transformer or GSU.
I also want to take a moment to mention Westinghouse's recent acquisition of Mangiarotti in Italy.
As you may recall Mangiarotti manufactures various tanks and heat exchanges that make up parts of the passive cooling design for the AP1000.
We believe this acquisition is positive for our project as it gives the Mangiarotti facilities the financial support they need to continue to provide high-quality nuclear components.
On slide 26 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual line projected over the life of construction.
This chart shows the CWIP during the years 2008 to 2018 as reflected in the August 2014 BLRA quarterly report and does not reflect any of the Consortium's estimated additional costs or scheduled delays.
As you can see the next several years of the peak nuclear construction period.
The green line represents related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right-hand axis.
As we stated before the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 27.
As we mentioned in our second quarter call we filed our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA in May.
In response to that request in September the Public Service Commission approved an increase of $66.2 million.
The new rates are effective for bills rendered on or after October 30.
Our BLRA filings for 2014 are shown at the bottom of the slide.
And as you can see in August we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the Commission and the Office of Regulatory Staff for the second quarter 2014.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter of 2014 in November.
On Slide 28.
You'll see a breakout of the total new nuclear project costs.
On the far right you can see the product costs as filed in the August 2014 BLRA report.
Project costs are currently underrunning the original approval received from the Public Service Commission.
As you can see this change is largely attributable to lower escalation.
This of course does not include consideration for the negotiations ongoing relative to the new schedule and cost information.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Jim von Riesemann of CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> I have one question in 3 parts so I won't violate the 2 or more question rule.
The first question centers on is there any update -- I may have missed this but is there any update with expectations as to when the timing of this negotiation with the construction Consortium may end? You guys have any idea? Jim this is Steve.
What we've said a few minutes ago was that we can't predict when those negotiations will be concluded.
So we started the negotiation process.
It's been fruitful to date and we can't yet determine when they will conclude.
Research Division</strong> Do you think this is going to be a '14 event or an '15 event? And your best guess.
My best guess is it could be either.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning -- then I think this -- it will be a question now for Jimmy.
I was a little bit confused on the earnings release.
And I just need some refresher on the marketing businesses.
You had a -- what's at the Georgia retail? And what's at the corporation? Yes.
So we've got 2 different divisions of the same legal entity SCANA Energy.
We've got SCANA Energy Marketing which is the kind of industrial marketing arm that markets to industrial customers across all 3 states of our footprint.
Some of their capability is for marketing unused capacity of the Georgia retail marketing business.
The other division of that company is the Georgia retail marketing business.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So what drove the that loss in the third quarter? Or the higher loss from this? Yes.
So Jim it was an intentional kind of a strategic move.
They've had a real good year early in the year.
The industrial marketing company on the retail marketing side the other division we've had some gas inventories that were higher than current gas market prices for a while not higher than our sales price but higher than the current gas market price.
So we took that opportunity to move some of that storage gas out and directed from a cost standpoint to some of the industrial sales.
Obviously not charging those industrial customers at higher costs but absorbing those losses now refilling that storage with current market prices to get us in a better position headed into the winter heating season in the retail side.
Research Division</strong> I totally understand what's going on there.
And the last one I'm also confused can you walk me through the revised earning guidance? But more specifically it's not so much the $3.73 $3.90.
If i back out the weather and if I assume the midpoint that means you're at $3.57 and that would be $0.02 above your internal target your previous internal targets so I backed out all the weather.
What are we going -- how should we think about earnings growth going forward? Are we going to redefine a base to say 2014 as the year concludes? Or do you think we're going to still keep with this '13 base? No what our intention each year is to move to a weather normal new year.
So last year it was of '13 weather normal in our plan.
When we released guidance for '15 in February would be to move to a '14 weather normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
so if you go 3 to 6 I guess off that '14 I would've implied $3.62 on the low-end maybe up to $3.80 $3.90.
So we're going to actually look on weather-normalized basis probably as still some good year-over-year comps is that correct? Yes I mean I think you had it pretty accurate before when you say if you take the weather off the midpoint of the $3.70 to $3.90.
The next question will come from Ashar Khan of Visium.
I just want to get a little bit -- I don't know if you can help me out Southern and you guys started at the same time and they -- and if I'm right when you guys started some people thought that you might be the first one to complete.
And they on their call yesterday said that they're still hoping and expect to be done on their original timeline which is end of 2017.
And that their costs estimates have not changed as they've recorded.
In the same -- and I'm just trying to understand as the same projects same technology same kind of thing.
I guess the contract is different.
But why is there such a huge delta between one party and the other? I'm sure you have also done some analysis you have to have done analysis where you -- we are getting off by nearly 18 months 24 months.
They are still on timeline and our costs on the total project for 18 months ours is only 55% is like $1 billion higher I think.
So I just want to understand Jimmy is what is so different that we are having 2 different results for a project of a similar scope type in the same region being built by the same kind of subcontractors and things? Ashar this is Steve.
Let me try to tackle the question.
You said that we started about the same time.
We certainly applied for our licenses at the same time and we're within a couple of months of receiving licenses with Southern getting theirs first.
Southern got an early site permit.
So some of the on-site construction on the Southern Company project did start before ours did.
We did not see the need to apply for the early site permit so we went straight this -- to the combined operating license route which we both ended up getting.
So they did some preliminary work that we did not do.
So there are some minor differences on-site.
One because of the early start they got and two because the sites are slightly differently hard rock site versus a soft soil site.
That being said they are -- the projects are the same project building the same things with the same vendors and the same constructor.
I can't speak to what they would say relative to their schedule or cost.
We know that from the original cost projections Southern company was higher than us by some 40% and their contract -- though I haven't seen their contract my understanding is it is different than ours and different than in ours and as much as it may be more fixed than ours is.
So what Southern says is what they've said and you can glean that from their earnings calls.
We're dealing with same Consortium that they're dealing with and we've gotten information on cost and schedule that we've updated you on.
So that's about as much as we can say on the Southern project.
Okay okay.
And then Jimmy I guess what is being I guess troubling to the stock and I guess the sell-side is not getting recovery or I guess that's what the stock kind of envisions is that we will have some hard time getting recovery for this overspend.
So if I'm correct what you said is that in -- by the time this agreement is done and over with I guess the best time frame we have is end of the year.
You will then file immediately with the commission the new cost estimates and timelines.
And then the commission would have 6 months from that date.
So if you get the January 1 you filed January 1 say.
So you will know by June 30 what they have allowed you that increase.
And I guess the positive thing to rule is that the Supreme Court in their decision earlier basically verified an earlier commission decision to be allowed to recover that.
So it seems like they can go ahead and do that.
And if they do that that should not be then appealed to the courts because I guess we have another precedence where the Supreme Court has reaffirmed the commission's decision.
Am I thinking through this correctly? Yes Ashar.
I think your example of the time frame there is technically accurate.
I think a couple times before when we've been in for revisions in the cost and schedule I think going from memory they've actually ruled sooner than their 6 months fairly quickly.
So they've not necessarily taken that entire 6 months.
They do usually take that 6 months on a regular base rate case just so that they have the maximum statutory allowance before the new rates go in.
But I think what you said there is accurate.
I don't see any real issues with that.
The Supreme Court did rule in favor of us on the interveners appeal.
It was a 5-0 decision by the court.
And I think everything else you summarized there is pretty accurate.
Our next question will come from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Research Division</strong> About the owner's cost that you were -- you haven't provided an estimate for.
Most of that is labor am I correct in understanding that? Yes I would say the majority of it is probably labor and that's our labor so these are the folks that we've hired that would now be on the project for a longer period of time because the Consortium was extending it.
Some of the other costs would be things like insurance.
We have to have builders' risk insurance on the project and if the project is extending then you have to extend that policy.
That will come on the policy.
So there are some things that are not labor but I would say the majority of it is probably labor.
Research Division</strong> I mean you haven't provided an estimate of it.
Is it because you might file for liquidated damages and you don't want to give away your hand on that or ...
There are some things in the negotiation process that we don't necessarily want to tip our hand on.
Other things would be that you have a hiring plan for your staff and you might adjust that hiring plan if you've got a new plan now that to deal with.
So that could impact the owner's costs.
So there are some things that we can have an impact on an owner's costs.
Research Division</strong> The moving target.
And is there a kind of a rule of thumb? I mean is it a sort of a similar magnitude to what their costs are? Is it maybe 30% of it 20% of it? I don't know.
I've never done a ratio on the costs.
So what we'll do is we'll -- when we negotiate the schedule we'll evaluate the owner's costs based on the new schedule and then we'll put that information out.
Research Division</strong> And one other question I had is about the escalation.
You said their numbers are based on 2007 without escalation.
And is -- just looking at the way escalation is already affected the project it hasn't really been much of the problem right? Especially coming a lot less than expected so is that sort of...
To date it's certainly the escalation has come in much less than anticipated because we had to forecast what the escalation was under that Base Load Review Act at the beginning of the process and it has been very favorable for a large capital-intensive project.
I don't know that I would want to predict what that's going to do going forward but we didn't apply the escalation just because escalation numbers can swing fairly widely.
And they've given us a relatively large range for completion.
So obviously we're trying to negotiate towards the front end of their range.
And but where we end up will have an impact on the escalation.
That's one reason why we're waiting on the escalation calculations.
And let me just add process wise the escalation is allowed for in the wall and the escalation kind of is what is up or down it's -- so that's not a separate application if that changes.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to estimate what the number would be with escalation I guess in 2014 dollars? Well we've got to know all the details of what year and quarters et cetera those buckets fall in and we're not to that point yet.
The next question will come from Travis Miller of MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Question on the weather benefit that you got in this year.
Is that going to impact at all the need for the equity? I know you guys kept it the same or shifted a little bit.
It's been a -- the weather has been a pretty nice benefit for you guys.
Is that going to affect next year's equity plan at all? Yes Travis on the margin it fact that affects just a little.
But more than that it's just the timing of the construction on the project.
So the weather year-to-date has been ballpark $50 million pretax ballpark $30 million after tax or so.
So it's not a huge driver of timing of equity.
When you got a $1.8 billion liquidity line $30 million is not a huge swing in there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then on the $0.29 year-to-date you've gotten on that electric margin can you break that down in terms of nuclear project customer growth other stuff? Yes.
Just a minute I may have some more on that.
Yes so we talked about -- see $0.23 is weather and then the BLRA has added about $0.20 I believe it is.
Isn't? $0.29.
$0.29 excuse me.
The BLRA is added about $0.20 and then residential and commercial customer growth is about $0.06 is the other driver where we're got 1.3% customer growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the other would be then the other 3 would just be other stuff? Yes.
Just the miscellaneous.
Usage et cetera.
The next question will come Andrew Weisel of Macquarie.
My first question is I just want to clarify I think one of the thing that Ashar was asking about you're clearly in the process of negotiating who's going to shoulder what portion of the cost overruns between the Consortium and SCANA.
But whatever that number ends up being for the SCANA portion should we think of that as entirely being borne by rate payers or would investors somehow have to share that costs overrun? Yes.
Under the Base Load Review Act for it not to be the responsibility of the ratepayers they would have to be able to prove imprudence on the part of the utility.
And certainly we don't think that there's any imprudence on our part.
So we don't think that that would be any different.
Okay great.
Second question about the updated schedule.
Again I know that there are certain negotiations you're doing in terms of ways to shorten the delay.
But the way that the Consortium has proposed the updated schedule on cost estimates to you is more the increase coming in the near term like '15 or so? Or is it more -- is the additional costs coming more in the other years like 2018 or potentially 2019? The additional costs that the Consortium would propose would really be spread out over the project.
Now the project is going to spread out for a little bit longer.
But I don't think the bulk of the costs will be in '14.
I think the bulk of the costs as you can see from one of the slides we presented it's going to be in '15 '16 range.
But it's spread out over the entire contract period.
Okay great.
And then just to clarify you were talking earlier about some of those expenses being in labor and insurance type of buckets.
Would those ultimately be added to the rate base once the project is done? Yes they'd be a part of the capital project and would go in the rate base when the project is finished.
So they get layered in each year as we would file the BLRA increases just like they do today.
Steve has I don't know 500 or so SCE&amp;G employees on site now that he's already hired ramping up for training once the plant comes online.
And they go into the BLRA through CWIP each May when we make the filing and into new rates each November.
Great.
And my last question is in light of the favorable trends in terms of weather help this year your account growth remained strong what are your latest thoughts on when you might next need to file for a general rate case in South Carolina? Yes.
Well our strategy remains to stay out of any kind of general rate increase during this peak nuclear construction years.
And the key to that obviously is maintaining a reasonable return on the base electric business.
We continue to do that.
We continue to run it at about a 10% return on equity as it was in our prepared comments earlier.
So we're comfortable with that for the near term.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I had a little -- some questions around the schedule in particular the CA -- Unit 2 CA-01 unit.
I just wondered if you give a little more color.
I know you mentioned you have 46 or 47 submodules on-site.
Do you need to have -- what's the anticipated for the last submodule is that necessary before you can move forward? Or how should we think about the timing of that CA-01 since it seems like that's critical path item that's holding up a lot of other steps.
Is that correct? Yes Dan the CA-01 is a critical module.
The 47 submodules that comprise that come in from the Lake Charles facility by truck.
And then we will make any kind of inspections from repairs on them on site infield then we erect them on a platform inside our Module Assembly Building.
And as I think I said a while ago we got about 16 of those or 18 of those standing on the plant what the craft are doing now is there's fitting them up making sure they're intolerant and they're stating the welding process.
So as of right now we have a backlog in the Module Assembly Building which means they've got more modules that they could stand up.
So that's good they're not waiting on anything.
So the absence of that one module isn't holding us up from doing the work.
And we anticipate getting that last module sometime in the next couple of weeks.
So it in and of itself is not going to be a holdup.
And then they -- we -- they ought to progress towards completing that module.
And our term is ready for hook which means it's ready to be placed on the hook of Heavy Lift Derrick.
So it basically means that the module is finished to that point where it can be picked up.
We're anticipating that sometime in the first half of next year.
The first half of '15 for CA-01 to go into the unit is that what you're saying? Just to be clear.
Yes into the containment vessel.
So we basically -- we've got on the structural module site there are really 6 large structural modules CA-01 through 05 and they all go inside of the containment vessel and then the CA-20 goes outside the containment vessel but still on the nuclear island on the base mat and forms a portion of auxillary building.
The CA-20 module has been set.
The CA-04 module has been set.
The CA-05 module is complete ready to be set.
And so we'll do that shortly before the end of this year.
CA-01 is in progress inside the Module Assembly Building and we anticipate setting that sometime first half of next year.
Our next question will come from Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wondered if you could give an update of what you're seeing at the Sanmen project in China in terms of the overall progress lessons learned sort of key execution risks that you see at that site? Yes.
I think the progress at the Sanmen site has been very good.
If you haven't seen pictures of it I know they've got a photo on Westinghouse's website of Sanmen unit from I think it was May of this year.
From our look at it they continue to be about 2 to 2.5 years ahead of us.
We've said that from the start.
That continues to hold.
If you look at the pictures of the Sanmen site both Unit 1 and unit 2 are coming along.
Unit 1 looks like it's about finished.
We -- their issues or their holes are probably the same kind of things that we're following.
The reactor coolant pumps squib valves and we've gotten some good news from the Consortium on both of those fronts just recently.
But they've got testing to go through which they're into now.
But they anticipate that they will be starting up those units.
I think their goal was to try to do it by the end of '15 first part of '16.
So they continue to be 2 to 2.5 years ahead of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And from an overall sort of standards of engineering and sort of quality control as you look at that and what you're seeing there what's your general assessment of that? Our general assessment of their quality is good.
They are building it to Western standards.
They don't have the same kind of regulatory oversight that we would have from our Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
But that aside we think that the quality of construction over there is good.
They are using some indigenous suppliers particularly on the secondary side of the plant or the turbine building side of the plant.
So that's where they're going to vary from us.
So whereas we would you use Toshiba for the turbine and generator for example they might use somebody else.
Some of the cabling and things are going to try and use indigenous Chinese suppliers that we wouldn't necessarily want to use.
So there are going to be some differences particularly on the secondary side of the plant.
But the plant is coming right along.
Our next question will be from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the summer project.
I want to make sure I understand somethings and I'm trying to get my arm around on something.
So the $660 million that's in '07 dollars that I could use a very low inflation number or escalation number to think about what that -- 1% or 2% if I want to just back of the envelope to think about what that is in terms of 2014 dollars.
Is there a back of the envelope we can use for the owner's cost? Meaning when you first did the budget for the project and you first talked about it what percent of total cost did owner's cost make up? I'm just trying to think about back of the envelope way to prorate this.
Michael off the top of my head I don't remember what the total amount of the project cost was owner's cost.
It was probably less than 10% of the total cost.
We can probably got some refinements for you and give you a call back with that number.
But I don't have it at my fingertips.
But it was not a huge portion of the total cost.
Steve let me just interject.
That's available from the public data mine or is on website and the PSCs in our filing it shows up broken down.
Research Division</strong> In the latest BLRA or in the original one? No it's in the original.
I'm not sure if it's in each quarter or not.
But we'll have IR follow up with you on that on where it's available publicly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it just safe to assume that the owner's cost would escalate at kind of the same rate if I took the $660 million and divided it by the last projected cost and then took whatever the owner's costs was and the escalated at the same amount? Is that kind of a rough way to get to what the potential cost increase would be? I don't know that you can exactly do that.
Some of the $660 million that the Consortium has given to us they are truly rebaselining things.
So they're looking at the experience that they've gained to date on things like module fabrication on-site efficiencies engineering completion those kinds of things.
So the owner's cost wouldn't follow that necessarily.
A good majority of owner's cost is just because the staff that we've hired are going to be on site for a longer period of time.
And then there are some other things like I discussed insurance we'll have some increased regulatory commission fees those kind of things.
But the bulk of it is going to be with the people that are there for longer periods of time.
And we're looking at things that we can do now perhaps we don't need that staff quite as early with whatever is the new schedule that we negotiate.
We may take some actions to kind of delay some of that hiring.
So we have -- we will have some impact on the cost.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then 1 or 2 just kind of more modeling related items to me at least you all talked a little bit about in the corporate in the gas marketing business description.
You also talked about a little bit higher corporate or holding company interest costs.
Is there a new debt issuance? Or did you ramp up short-term debt during the quarter at the holding company level? No that is a very very minor piece of that variance Michael so don't get too hung up on that one.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then lastly going into the end of the year what's your expectation for O&amp;M for like the fourth quarter? Like you've talked about O&amp;M being up a good bit in '14 over '13.
It hasn't quite been up as much as maybe expected it would be and you've all done a good job managing that.
How do you end the year on the O&amp;M line? I think the run rate you're seeing to date is a pretty good projection for the fourth quarter based on what we know today.
Research Division</strong> Meaning kind of a similar year-over-year growth rate that we've seen in the other 3 quarters? Yes.
We continue to do a better job than our plan in managing that cost.
So we're encouraged by that.
And the next question will be a follow-up from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Jimmy I think in response to Jim's question I just wanted to clarify.
So the midpoint is right now is $3.80.
And if you take $0.20 off it for the abnormal weather you get to a $3.60 normalized 2014.
And that would be the new start point when you give guidance for the 3% to 6% for '15 and onwards going forward? Only if that's where we end up at year end.
So I'm sure some things will change between now and the earnings at December 31.
But that is based upon today.
There will be both weather-related changes in Q4 and non-weather-related changes but we'll evaluate all of that and come out with a new number.
So I'm not giving you $3.60 as a base today.
No we will give you a new number in February.
Okay.
But you said you base it off normalized earnings right? Normalized weather earnings right? Is that correct or there certain other things that you do? That is correct but some other things could change in Q4 that I don't know of today.
There could be something that's abnormal that's unrelated to weather.
Understood understood.
But right now the $3.70 to $3.90 the new forecast that is higher just because of the abnormal weather that you have had.
Is that correct? Based on what you're giving us today.
Not totally but the majority of it is.
So look we're raising it $0.25 and the weather is $0.23 or so of that.
So there's $0.02 or $0.03 in there for things we've experienced year-to-date that we're putting into the revised guidance today.
And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over the Jimmy Addison for his closing comments.
Yes.
First of all I want to say thanks to everyone for your patience for bearing with us today with this technical problem we had.
Thank you for hanging with us for a couple of hours here to get through this.
I want to tell you we're pleased with our results through the first 3 quarters with only a quarter left in the year and we continue to focus on the new nuclear construction and on operating all of our business in a safe and reliable manner.
We appreciate you joining us today and we thank you for your interest in SCANA.
Ladies and gentlemen the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.