Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday February 19 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our Analyst Call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
Slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other Investor Relations information directly to our Web site at scana.com.
On SCANA's home page there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and other Investor Relations information section of the Web site.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time to time may be deemed material and the information that is not otherwise been found public.
You can sign up for email alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the new nuclear development and/or other Investor Relations information sections of the Web site.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today's call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on Slide 2.
The Company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found on the Investor Relations section of our Web site.
I will now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I'll begin our earnings discussion on Slide 3.
Basic earnings in the fourth quarter of 2014 were $0.73 per share consistent with the same period of the prior year.
Overall electric margins increased during the fourth quarter of 2014 versus the same quarter of the prior year due primarily to continued recovery of financing cost through the Base Load Review Act or BLRA and customer growth.
As a reminder the electric weather normalization pallet ended in December 2013 and the Company’s financial results for 2014 and going forward are now impacted by abnormal weather in our electric business.
Accordingly during the fourth quarter of 2014 we estimate that weather had a negative impact of $0.02 on electric margins versus the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Additionally high gas margins and a slight decrease in the Company’s effective tax rate also contributed to the quarter.
These increases were offset by expected increases in operations and maintenance expenses and CapEx related items including depreciation interest expense as well as share dilution.
Please turn to Slide 4.
Basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31 2014 were $3.79 per share versus $3.40 per share in 2013.
Increases in electric and gas margins as well as the decreases in the effective tax rate were partially offset by operations and maintenance expenses and higher expenses in dilution related to our capital program.
For the full year of 2014 we estimate weather added $0.21 per share to electric margins versus the prior year.
Now on Slide 5 I’d like to briefly review results for our principle lines of business.
South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company's full year earnings denoted in blue were up $0.41 per share for 2014 compared to the prior year.
This was driven largely by increases in electric margin which were due primarily to abnormal weather plus the continued recovery of financing cost through the BLRA and customer growth.
Higher gas margins also contributed to the earnings improvement.
These increases were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses expenses related to our capital program including property taxes interest expense and depreciation as well as share dilution.
For the fourth quarter basic earnings per share were $0.02 higher than the same period last year.
PSNC Energy’s earnings shown in red were $0.39 per share for the full year of 2014 compared to $0.37 per share in the prior year.
This increase is mainly attributable to customer growth.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 basic earnings were $0.16 per share consistent with 2013.
SCANA Energy our retail and natural gas marketing business in Georgia in green showed an increase in earnings per share of $0.01 over last year.
This was mainly due to increased margins from higher throughput during the first and fourth quarters of 2014.
As a reminder the increased margins in the first quarter were partially offset by higher commodity prices experienced concerning the incremental volumes and price competition.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 basic earnings per share were also up $0.01 over the same period of 2013.
SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.03 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to near breakeven results in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
For the 12 month period these businesses reported a loss of $0.01 per share in 2014 compared to earnings of $0.04 per share in 2013.
This change is primarily the result of higher interest expense at the holding company due to the accelerated amortization of debt issuance cost associated with hybrid securities that were called at par in early 2015 prior to their maturity.
On Slide 6 we have provided two years of historical financial data on the two subsidiary sales we recently announced to assist in updating your models.
The CGT transaction closed on January 31st and the SCI transaction is scheduled to close shortly.
To recap these transactions will generate approximately $650 million of gross proceeds.
Our updated estimate of the net cash available to fund our expansion will exceed $425 million after taxes.
I will discuss the planned changes to our financing plan shortly.
I’ll now like to touch on the economic trends in our service territory.
As you can see on Slide 7 during 2014 company’s announced plans to invest over $1 billion with the expectation of creating over 7 500 jobs in our Carolina’s territories.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolina’s unemployment rate is now at 6.5% and the rate in SCE&amp;G's electric territory is estimated at 5.6%.
At top of Slide 8 you can see the South Carolina unemployment statistics as of December 2014 and 2013.
Although the South Carolina unemployment rate only dropped at 10th of a percentage point from the end of 2013 December 2014 marked all-time highs for the number of South Carolinians employed and in the labor force.
The nearly 50 000 additions to the work force represented 2.4% increase over December 2013 levels.
So in short the expansion of the economy has clearly motivated many that have removed themselves from actively seeking work back into the work force.
The December market numbers from the South Carolina Association of Realtors showed increases in new listings pending sales and medium sales prices while available housing inventory shrank.
I also wanted to mention as depicted at the bottom of the slide that United Van Lines recently released its annual mover study for 2014 which tracks migration patterns state to state once again South Carolina and North Carolina ranked second and third respectively in terms of domestic migration destinations collaborating our realized customer growth statistics.
These are all very positive signs for our territories.
Slide 9 presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top of the slide are the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G electric business added customers at an annual rate of 1.4%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at 2.5% and 2.8% respectively.
A particular note is the fact that all of these rates accelerated during the year.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended December 31 2014.
Overall weather normalized total retail sales were up 0.6% on a 12 month ended basis driven mainly by strong industrial demand.
We continue to see slightly lower weather normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated energy efficiencies.
Now please turn to Slide 10 which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulative rate base of approximately $8.9 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G's base electric businesses in which we were allowed a 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended December 31st in the base electric business is approximately 10% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA-related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We're very pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we're allowed an 11% return on equity.
As you may recall the Public Service Commission of South Carolina approved our 2014 request for revised rates under the BLRA which added incremental CWIP of approximately $561 million to our rate base and increased rates by approximately 2.8% in November.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We're allowed a return on equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in North Carolina and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses within a reasonable range of those returns.
As a reminder in November SCE&amp;G's gas business implemented a $2.6 million revenue reduction as a result of the Rate Stabilization Act.
Slide 11 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast has been updated to reflect our most current CapEx projections for 2015 and '16 and is now inclusive of our 2017 estimates.
Note that this forecast excludes CGT and SCI as the sale of CGT has been completed and the transaction for SCI is expected to close by the end of this quarter.
Also this forecast reflects the company's current estimate of new nuclear spending through 2017 which is updated from what was filed in our quarterly BLRA report.
The data in the BLRA reports are limited to the last approved order by this Public Service Commission in South Carolina and are not always consistent with our new nuclear CapEx expectations.
This forecast more accurately aligns itself with our anticipated project spending over the next three years as it relates to the schedule delay.
At the bottom of the Slide we recapped the new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are calculated.
Now please turn to Slide 12.
To summarize our financings for 2014 on May 27th SCE&amp;G issued $300 million of 50 year bonds at 4.5%.
On the equity side we issued approximately $100 million from 401(NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) matching and DRIP plans.
Looking forward we have revised our estimated financing plan through 2019.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it's unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they're subject to changing in our funding needs for planned project expenses.
This plan contemplates both the estimated delays in the timing of the disbursements related to the new nuclear project as well as deployment of the proceeds from the sale of the subsidiaries.
As mentioned in our press release the plan to use the cash precedes net of taxes from the sales of subs to displace equity issuances.
However until we can fully deploy the proceeds for that purpose we're taking advantage of this infusion of cash.
Earlier this month SCANA redeemed in advance a maturity at par with $150 million 2009 Series A 7.7% Enhanced Junior Subordinated Notes.
In addition we have delayed long-term debt issuances and are reducing our short-term borrowings.
We also turned off the issuance of new shares to supply our 401(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) and DRIP plans earlier this year and anticipate delaying the need for any additional equity issuances until 2017.
We don’t currently project the need for any additional equity beyond the new shares provided by the use of 401(<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/K" title="Kellogg Company">K</a>) and the DRIP plan which we will turn on as needed.
Overall we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Obviously the construction delay has slowed expenditures but they were also significantly reduced by lower than anticipated escalation.
The delay is a matter of timing but the escalation on those components already received or completed will result in permanent savings.
Any change in the amount or timing of the new nuclear cost would obviously result in changing this plan.
I would now like to discuss our 2015 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on Slide 13.
First as you can see on the top left on the slide we are resetting our base year for our long-term GAAP adjusted average annual growth guidance of 3% to 6% over the next three years to five years off of 2014's GAAP adjusted weather normalized EPS of $3.58 per share.
Our 2015 operating plan exclusive of the aggregate gains on the sale of the two subsidiaries would have resulted in $3.74 per share.
However we project the 2015 earnings will be negatively impacted about $0.04 per share due to the short term impact of these two sales while these transactions are expected to yield approximately $0.04 per share of accretion on a long-term basis all of the proceeds can’t be efficiently deployed in the short run to displace equity needs.
As such we believe there will be downward pressure on 2015 expected earnings which is considered in our guidance.
Therefore our 2015 net internal target for GAAP adjusted earnings is $3.70 per share.
Our GAAP adjusted earnings per share guidance in $3.60 to $3.80 per share.
But due to the cyclical nature of our business we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in the first quarter approximately 25% in each the third and fourth quarters and the remaining 20% in the second quarter.
And completing this guidance range we’ve included the impact of a base rate increase from nuclear filing and the BLRA the 2014 gas RSA filing and our view of the economy.
This guidance also incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
We continue to assume customer average use of electricity will be slightly lower this year as energy efficiency trends continue to work their way into the market.
We anticipate overall weather normalized retail electric sales growth for 2015 to decline by approximately 0.6%.
We forecast electric customer growth to be similar to 2014.
Operation and maintenance expenses are expected to be relatively flat in 2015 compared to 2014 actual.
Our effective tax rate for 2014 was slightly less than 32% and we estimate the rate for 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains of the sales of subsidiaries will be approximately 31%.
Hopefully this will provide you with the line of site into our view of 2015 as you update your models.
Finally I’ll mention that earlier today we announced an increase in our annual dividend rate for 2015 at $0.08 to $2.18 per share a 3.8% increase.
The result of 2014 and confidence in the long-term strategy were key considerations.
We continue to anticipate growing dividends fairly consistent with earnings while staying within our stated paying out policy of 55% to 60%.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I want to begin by recapping the preliminary new nuclear construction schedule on cost information we received from the Consortium.
As described last week in our quarterly BLRA update filing with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina the Consortium has indicated the substantial completion date for Unit 2 is expected to occur by June of 2019 and the substantial completion date for Unit 3 maybe approximately 12 months later.
We are continuing our discussions with the Consortium in order to identify potential mitigation strategies to possibly accelerate the substantial completion date of Unit 2 to a time earlier in the first half of 2019 or to the end of 2018 with Unit 3 following approximately 12 months later.
As Jimmy previously mentioned we’re in the miss with negotiation process with the Consortium and we cannot predict when the revised schedule and cost estimates will be resolved.
Further neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted the new preliminary schedule or financial responsibility associated with these delays.
We anticipate filling a petition requesting an adjustment to our current capital cost and construction schedules with the public service commission before the end of this quarter.
Under the BLRA the [plan] has six months to reaching its order.
I’d now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
On slide 14 you can see an aerial photo of the site from December.
I have labeled both units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up the construction table top and as you can see progress continue to take place on the project.
Slide 15 shows where some of the module fabrication has been moved from CB&amp;I’s Lake Charles Louisiana facility to various other venues in the United States and Japan.
Fabrication and the CA03 sub modules continues at the SMCI facility in Florida.
Newport News Industries in Virginia is fabricating and continues to ship shield building panels to the site.
Oregon Iron Works and Toshiba IHI Corporation are the principal fabricators for Unit 3’s CA-20 and CA01 sub modules respectively.
On Slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 nuclear island.
In this picture you can see module CA-20 along with the containment vessel Ring 1 which has been placed on the containment vessel lower bowl.
The lower bowl is now covered by the auxiliary building walls as they are coming up to what we call elevation 100 which is about 35 feet above the base map.
Once elevation 100 has been reached; work will begin on the annex building which will house the electrical switch gear for plant.
Slide 17 shows a schematic of the modules inside the containment vessel.
And here you can see the locations of modules CA-01 02 03 and 05 which we’ll further discuss shortly.
Slide 18 has an explored view of CA01 through 05 showing where they fits especially inside the containment vessels.
Slide 19 shows the recent picture of Unit 2 Module CA01.
CA01 houses the steam generators and pressurizer and forms our fueling canal inside the containment vessels.
We currently have all 47 sub modules on sight and 34 of those sub modules are up right and being assembled in the module assembly building or MAB.
Slide 20 the shipment from Yokohama Japan of the first in Unit 3 CA01 sub module fabricated by Toshiba which should be on sight in early March.
Slide 21 shows pictures of the Unit 2 Module CA05 this module comprises one of the major wall sections within the containment vessel.
On the top right you can see Module CA05 inside of the tent where the final weld is completed prior to placement.
On December 6 2014 this module was lifted with the heavy lift derrick as seen on the left hand side of the slide and placed in a containment vessel as seen on the bottom right hand side of the slide.
On slide 22 you can see an area of picture with a good view of the containment vessel rings that are currently being fabricated for Units 2 and 3.
As you can see on the bottom right the Unit 2 containment vessel Ring 1 has been placed on top of the containment vessel lower bowl and Ring 2 is complete and will be set after placement of structural module CA01.
Across the top of the picture you can see three other containment vessel rings that are in the process of being fabricated for Units 2 and 3 each unit has a total of 3 ring sections.
In addition the steel for the Unit 2 containment vessel top closure head is also on site.
Slide 23 shows the picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island here you can see where the containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and their nearest building walls continue to take shape.
On slide 24 you can see an arrow picture showing the four low profile four stacked cooling towers.
Cooling towers 2 Alpha and 3 Alpha are both structurally complete and you can see the progress continuing on 2 Bravo and 3 Bravo.
On slide 25 you can see one of the two steam generators for Unit 2 that arrived at the construction site on January.
The component was transported from the port of Charleston by rail on a specifically designed [snaffle] car.
This steam generator weighs approximately 1.3 million pounds it’s about 20 feet in diameter and it’s almost 82 feet long Slide 26 shows shield building panels for Unit 2.
The shield building surrounds the containment vessel.
These panels will be welded together and concrete will be poured inside the panel to create shield building.
On left you can see one of the panels up close on the right you can see the lay down yard where we have begun receiving the panels.
We currently have received 44 of the 167 Unit 2 panels that are provided by Newport News Industries.
I want to also briefly mention the 8-inch explosive of squib bells which are a key component of the passive safety system of the AP1000 design.
They’ve recently passed a series of engineering test to determine if they will properly operate under extreme conditions such as high pressure and temperature.
That’s great news for the project as it prepares the valves for testing to qualify them versus margins.
On slide 27 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of construction.
This chart also reflects our company’s current actual and estimated new nuclear CapEx during the years 2008 to 2020 which as Jimmy previously discussed is updated from what we filed in the latest quarterly BLRA report.
As you can see the next several years are the peak nuclear construction period the green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right hand access.
As a reminder the incremental 5% future acquisition of the new nuclear project from Santee Cooper will not affect these projected BLRA increases.
Please now turn to Slide 28 as mentioned in our third quarter call in September the public service commission approved a rate increase of 66.2 million.
The new rates were effective for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
Our BLRA filings for 2015 are shown at the bottom of the slide and as you can see we recently filed our quarterly status report for the fourth quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks we’ll now be glad to respond any questions you might have.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from Andrew Weisel from Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
For Steve if I heard you correctly you said that you will be filing with the commission the updated schedule by the end of the first quarter.
Is that in relation to missing the milestone with CA03 Unit 2 or is that a function of your expectation that you will reach the statement with the consortium by then or both are those potentially two separate filings? What’s the strategy around that? Yes the filings really are to update the cost and the schedule.
I do not anticipate at this point in time that we will have a settlement with the consortium when we file the update petition by the end of the quarter.
I could be surprised but I would not anticipate that happening.
So then what happens if you're in the midst of a review of the already seen delays when you reach your settlement will that settlement be merging to the same review? Would you have to have a second review? No I would think that it would -- everything will depend upon timing but we will file petition we will have some period of time to generate testimony.
We will then have a formal hearing few months later and then its six months from the time we file the commission has to render their opinion.
So it depends on when it will happen in that process but obviously if it were happen before we went to hearing and we could amend the filing of the petition.
And then my other question was you mentioned the goal to stay out of rate cases during peak construction.
Now that the peak construction has pushed out a few years and goes through 2017 is that still the hope to avoid a non-nuclear rate increase through 2017? That remains our goal.
Then one last one when I look at the CapEx schedule you provided in the slides for new nuclear I compare that to the appendix 2 of the BLRA.
And they're usually pretty close this time it seems like there CapEx numbers are more different than normal.
Is there anything unusual going on between those two? Just timing Andrew so we've just been pulling this altogether very real-time and it's a time we file the BLRA last Friday we knew that we would end up with different information today that will be fairly similar we think to what we file in the update filings Steve mentioned but we footnoted that in the BLRA that those items will be changing in the near term so it's just kind of the timing of everything.
So the numbers in the slide are the more up-to-date ones? That's exactly right.
Your next question comes from Jim von Riesemann from Mizuho.
Please go ahead.
Quick question for you in the press release you talked about the interest savings on the nuclear project.
Am I thinking about this correctly that you have roughly 1.2 billion in potential interest rate savings versus the original project cost? So if that stays on plan and let's assume a worst case scenario where the 660 million construction dispute is those against you and the entire things so that's a real worst case basis.
Does that mean you're still into the original project cost and you're going to wind up and the customers are not going to be impacted in anyway? And this is really the first time we've emphasized those interest savings so we were really trying to clarify some misunderstanding some in the financial markets and some in the local area here where our folks really weren’t understanding the escalation saving so we're projecting as you know in the BLRA somewhere around $575 million of lower escalation today than when we originally started the project.
And sometimes they have been confused with lower financing cost.
That lower escalation is just lower escalation on the actual labor and modules et cetera associated with the construction.
It has nothing to do with the financing cost.
So what we put in the press release is our estimate of the estimated savings over the tenure of the bonds that we have issued and those that we've locked in of the savings that would occur over the life of those so they're really two different matters.
As far as your real question about would be 660 million be offset by the 1.2 billion.
I'd say it really be offset dollar-for-dollar by the escalation savings because those are more in today's dollars the 1.2 billion are savings to occur over the future of the bonds some 30 plus years.
Your next question comes from Ashar Khan of Visium.
Please go ahead.
Can I just follow up to a couple of things on earnings? You had mentioned Jimmy into your remarks that the deal would be accretive by about $0.04 by the time you utilize the proceeds.
So will that have happened by '16 or '17? We project it will have happened by the end of '16 based upon the current projected equity needs to finance the project.
Of course that's somewhat dependent upon the pace of the project and the construction expenditures but it will not have happened by the beginning of '16.
We're comfortable it will have happened by the beginning of '17 more likely sometime during the year.
So that means as we look at '15 to '17 earnings there will be like a $0.08 shift on this $0.04 dilution going away and then by '17 year a $0.04 accretion coming am I thinking to that correctly? Correct.
Secondly you had mentioned that the new schedule that you have presented this schedule under which the new CapEx in the forecast under this schedule the rate -- the Unit number one comes online towards the end of ‘19 and Unit number two 12 months later that is the basis of the projections you’re providing us today is that correct? I think what we said was the projection from the Consortium that’s constructing the plan is that the first unit Unit 2 will come online about mid-2019.
So we got June of 2019 date hung on that.
So we’re still working on mitigation strategies to try to pull that forward.
Yes but what you’ve given us today in the slide assumes the mid June of 2019 is that correct what we have in front of us today.
Yes.
Steve we’re just clarifying in your question you said the end of ‘19 mid-19.
Mid-19 okay.
And can you just speak about the -- I kind of get mixed up -- so this new schedule which you’re presenting.
How much extra cost does this have versus what was in the previous presentation? There isn’t any increase cost over what we presented previously remember we presented a range previously and we said first half of ‘19 was tail under the range so we’re calling numbers now that at the tail-end of that range that we quoted last time.
But the numbers that we quoted before that the Consortium is asking for I think we gave our 55% share at about 660 million that number is not changed also remember though that does not include owners cost or escalation that was reference in $2007.
So those increased cost are not part of these projections yet or are they? What the Consortium feels like there in title to are not baked into the numbers.
So if we take the 660 we may have taken some portion of that and included them in the projection but certainly not all of it.
Okay.
So you have taken your own rough as to what you are responsible for and you’ve included that and the remaining you have left often which you think are not responsible for these numbers.
That’s fair yes.
Okay.
And that is forecast that you’re going to present to that commission in about five weeks’ time? Yes by the end of the quarter we’ll present to the commission we haven’t nailed down exactly what we’re going to present to the commission yet.
So I wouldn’t say that what you’re seeing on these projections is exactly what we’re going to present to the commission.
Okay fair enough.
And then if I can just kind of like end up with is that when is it by the middle of the year or is it towards the second half of the year that we can expect some kind of settlement of timing? Ashar we’d love to be able to tell you that but the things are going slow.
The good news is that we’re still talking we’re still going back in fourth but they are going much slower than I would have anticipated.
So a little vary that forecast that it would happen by the end of the second quarter right now.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Michael Weinstein of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Couple of questions Southern recently gave their estimate of owners costs including financing cost on a monthly basis I’m just wondering is there any chance that you guys might provide that as well.
You’re looking at four -- that quarter I think two things one of them was burn rate for owners cost and another one was for financing cost.
On the owners’ cost I think you can assume we’re very similar to that.
The financing cost however their structure in Georgia their contract the way they finance is a little different than way we’re financing so I don’t think you can make the assumption of financing cost.
But on the owners’ cost the burn rate they quoted you can use roughly the same numbers for us.
Thank you.
And also separate topic the South Carolina distributed energy resource program is there any opportunity for you guys to participate in a solar bills regulated solar bills in South Carolina.
Yes there may be some opportunity that’s all being sorted out now.
There is process in front of the commission at this time.
So there may be some opportunity in there but it’s really -- that’s limited the whole legislation is aiming for South Carolina as a state to get some good experience with renewables not just sellable with renewables in general and the goal is for or the requirement really is for 2% to be 2% of our generation to be in distributed 1% utility 1% in customer scale in fact 20-20.
And we think those are our challenges to get done but we think we will get them done.
But there may be a small opportunity for us to participate in I expect there will be but I don’t think it will be material to our financial results.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thank you.
Question back on this filing that you’re talking about here by the end of the quarter and time line elements I mean the cost think I can understand you want recovery et cetera.
The time line thing is this more of a notification to the commission that the time line is different than originally approved or is there some implication here in terms of regulators looking at that time line that’s outside of what was originally approved and therefore something happens and I would think in worst case something like a per day or something like that? Does the schedule part of it being outside of that original approved band advance have any implication? This is Steve the implications are we have to go through a formal hearing process which is what the application that we would file by the end of the quarter.
So in between then and the six months later when an order have to be issued we’ll have a hearing and at hearing we’ll have our opportunity to explain what happened with the public service commission.
It would have to really be in prudence before they would deny it and prudency on the part of us the utility which I think they would be very difficult for anybody to prove.
We have done this once before so we’ve asked for a rebase line of our schedule -- our function path and that was approved by the public service commission by a 7/0 vote.
Okay so if they did rule in prudency based on the schedule delays then that would go into the cost side and potential recovery or not recovery is that fair to think about as gating factor so to speak? I am not sure it would be a gating factor I am not sure exactly what they might do with it.
I don’t think it would be fair to assume they would just say no but is a hearing process and we will have to make our case for why the schedule extension is reasonable which certainly we think we can make.
But we will be asking for what we’ve pointed out today so those new schedules.
So this is our opportunity to explain that to the commission because we’re not allowed to have conversations with them outside of this formal hearing or an [expartake] briefing process.
And Travis let me just add that that I guess this is obvious to everyone but what we’ll be presenting is the future not what’s occurred behind us so this is about permission not about asking for forgiveness.
The next question comes from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered but just a refresh on you were talking to Ashar about this the accretion associated with the asset sale.
You’re going to have a negative $0.04 now and then you’re going to have that reversed and then you’re going to have an accretion of $0.04.
Is that correct? That’s correct and maybe I can just summarize another way one strategy we could have deployed is to take all the cash fill out and buy back shares today.
And if that had happened we would project the earnings for ’15 would have been $0.08 higher not $0.04 lower but we would then back to the 374 + 4 because of the accretion.
We didn’t think that strategy made a lot of sense given the valuation of the industry sector given prices are start today to go out and buy shares today and then go sell shares again 12-18 months later.
Just tried to clear that up I thought I’d walk through that.
Okay and then on top of that just aside the sales growth you guys are projecting is negative 0.6% on a weather adjusted basis.
Is that correct? Yes this year.
And now you talked about similar customer growth that you guys had in the past.
Is that right? Yes.
Okay and then going forward I mean it’s a crystal ball kind of question like a lot of these are but what do you think longer term -- what do you think the state of growth would be sales growth for you guys? That’s really addressed in our IRP and we expect something just over 1.5% net so a gross would be closer to maybe 1.8% or 2% less energy efficiency and demand side manage was something around 1.6% 1.5%.
We’ll be filing another update to that in a few weeks but we don’t expect a significant change from on a net basis what we filed last year.
That’s a pretty significant change on a weather adjusted basis.
It is and a lot of that’s really being driven by industrial number one and number two by these energy efficiency standards really working themselves through the pipeline over the next two to three years.
So we feel like that’s being going on two for three years historically and will occur another two or three years.
So the view I just gave you on the longer term is a 15 year view.
So we probably going to have for the next three to five years -- two or three years not much it’s probably going to be pretty anemic growth I guess outside of industrial brands.
Exactly especially residential and commercial.
The next question comes from Jonathan Reader of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Jimmy just want to make sure going back to short -- I fully understand what’s in the 2015 to ’17 new nuclear CapEx forecast.
So that reflects mid-2019 and mid 2020 online dates and perhaps some sort of additional cost responsibility of that 660 million amount that you previously cited is that correct? Well on the dates portion yes on the 660 most of what is in here incrementally relates to our owners cost that roughly can may get month or so that Steve discussed earlier as well as some escalation on that owners cost as well as some minority of the 660 that we feel like is fairly clear-cut that the contortion would be entitled to but the majority of the 660 is not in these revised numbers.
And then because you're now assuming that June or mid 2019 date is that why you kind of tweaked the language a little bit in the BLRA filings saying about the June? Or should we be thinking if any less likely that you could potentially mitigate some of that scheduled delay at this point? I think we're been fairly realistic.
There are some things that we can yet do to accelerate deliveries of modules that we are going to do.
And we bake that into what we're assuming would be additional cost for us so that's already in those numbers.
Some of what you see is a spreading for a couple more of periods or couple more years to reflect these new June and June substantial completion dates or completion dates.
Again we haven’t accepted them yet; the contortion is still working to try to improve those so we're going to exhaust every effort to try to improve those dates but what we intend to go forward with is the June and June just.
Okay so you guys just go forward with that it will just give you more flexibility in terms of moving forward with the project is that the way to kind of think about it? Correct.
And then last question Steve if you go in a little bit of detail like what was going on at the SMCI facility in Florida there are issues down there that I guess you felt the need to put a person on the ground monitoring it? Yes we think we've seen some benefit from putting somebody on the ground at the Lake Charles facility and so we want to do it a little earlier at these other facilities so we have somebody at the SMCI facility but we're also putting people at other facilities.
So we have done and we'll surely have somebody at the NNI facility in Virginia and we have done and we'll surely have somebody at the Oregon Iron Works facility out in Oregon in Portland.
So we just think that's an important part of oversight going forward so we don’t repeat the mistakes that were made at Lake Charles and that kind of thing does add to owners cost so when we say we're adding cost those costs are in what we're forecasting going forward as well and then we'll ask from the commission by the end of the quarter.
So it's just kind of what you see as the best practice type thing and we shouldn’t necessarily be concerned that I guess there's something going wrong down there right now that could be a potential hurdle down the road? I'd be putting the residents in place is really -- it's prudent for us.
Your next question comes from Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Just a few questions on the nuke side.
Just on the 660 that that's in $2007 is that what you're saying I know you said that before but I just want to make sure that? Yes the 660 that we get from the contortion was all referenced in $2007 but that's when our contract was referenced in.
So is there a way to kind of figure out what the real number is? Well that's what they gave us the number so you just have to escalate it from there to get to a present day number but we haven’t done that yet.
We haven’t reported on that yet.
And then what's the mechanism to fight or cover these costs I guess unrelated to the BLRA so if you don’t want the rate payers to pay for it? How will you get the money? Or not pay the money or how does it work? Yes so the best way to get the money back is not to pay in the first place.
So the contract has in it dispute resolution provisions but we're trying to negotiate outside of that right now.
And if that were to fail then contract provisions would kick in but it's basically its mediation arbitration and net litigation.
And so our last guess will be to get to litigation not saying we won't get there but we're going to try and negotiate first.
And then if you do go to litigation route if they announce at the ends of getting that far you would withhold paying at some point or a portion or do you have like certain threshold that you need to kind of pay as you go? There are contractually some thresholds that we would have to pay for disputed costs and then there's other categories of things that we just don’t think there's any entitlement to which we would move and obviously want to withhold.
And that would be to the consortium so whether it's Westinghouse CBI or Toshiba that’s who we’re talking about? Or is it only to a certain entity? Now we can build by the Consortium and we pay the Consortium so they act as an entity one entity.
Got it.
Okay thank you very very much.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Just want to make sure I understood one thing I got a little bit used to it when the discussion came about to including or not including part of this 660 million.
The thing I want to make sure is the number the total number in that CapEx slide that you’re showing today is that a bigger number than what you showed in the prior quarter slide or was it the exact same number.
Well I think when you look at as a three year look at CapEx and if you look at the three year period the numbers are very close they are different though in every year so we move the cost around and what you don’t see in the three year look is the expansion out for a couple of more years.
So now that are running through 2018 or 2019 we’re now running through 2020.
So in the three you don’t necessarily see that.
So what we’ve included in the capital forecast going forward would be where we see the normal construction process and our payments based on the Consortium achieving milestones and we’ve added what we’re estimating for increases in owners’ cost and change orders of the consortium that we would dispute.
There are some things like cyber security cyber security rules were not around when the contract was negotiated they changed so we have to account for that.
So we wouldn’t necessarily dispute the fact we have to pay for cyber and so that would be an example of the change that we will include in the filing with that coming up.
So to the extend with those cost will be in the next three years that’s in what you’re seeing and we’ve included number of escalation on our owners’ cost and we have taken what we would call a minimal amount of entitlement.
So of that 660 there is a portion of that that we said we probably would not dispute that so we’ve included that in the cost.
But not to bias my negotiating position I’m not going to say exactly what that is.
Got it.
But if I look at the slide at the end of the presentation which has the full cycle of CapEx to completion in that slide the numbers that are detailed in the prior and as such in the out years would that change? That’s right Michael.
When you file that with the commission if you don’t have the settlement with CBI and in Westinghouse what is it you’re exactly filing? Are you just filing for extension based on the new schedule or are you filing for some other type of labor or approval? No we’re going to file based on a schedule that reflects the June of ‘19 and June of ‘20 dates and when we will also file for additional capital cost based on what we know.
Okay.
And right now do you have a pull from the vendors or from the Consortium integrated project schedule that takes me through completion? Yes I’ve got a schedule that you to completion yes.
Got it okay.
And that date is June 2019 date are they giving your full IPF and now it’s a question of what can you mitigate of the IPF? That’s correct.
[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Andy Levi from Avon Capital Advisors with the follow up.
Please go head.
I apologize; I should have asked this question to begin with.
This kind of compare notes like from southern company and all that just to understand the way their contracts written; again this is me talking not them talking.
And just also understand speaking to Westinghouse to CBI that if the delay is regulatory delay meaning it caused by the NRC theoretically the plant owner is the one who pays for in Southern’s case is that also the case with you guys? Andy our contract has traditional change order type language so a force-majeure event would trigger change orders certainly if it was a change in the regulation then they will be entire to a change order and it’s a good example that would be cyber security the regulation changed so we’ve amended the contract to account for that and it will cost us little bit more for cyber security where we would perhaps different with the Consortium is their interpretation what’s call the regulatory driven change and we would not accept that’s the change in the regulations.
So we are at odds over that topic.
Okay.
I’m just talking about whether issues of late trials again it’s a matter of opinion or whatever the delay is if it’s a delay that in their eyes was caused by the NRC theoretically in their eyes you would be on the hook for that again you may dispute that and be very correct in disputing in that but that’s kind of how it works? That correct.
Okay and then Southern talked about liquidated damages and they’d be kind of looking to recovery those.
Is that kind of your position as well? Yes our contract has in it liquidated damage provision and I think whenever we’re done releases our BLRAs and we’ve talked about numbers we’ve pointed out that those are not yet net of liquidated damages.
Any you haven’t put a number on those liquidated damages right? We haven’t no.
Okay and then a non-nuclear question I have and this is for Jimmy.
On your guidance that you gave what’s the midpoint or what’s the sales growth assumption there to get to the midpoint of your [CARG]? So of customers or retail load retail sales? Retail sales.
It’s actually negative 0.6%.
And we’ve a follow up from Ashar Khan from Visium.
Please go ahead.
Jimmy could you just -- this is something new which I guess street hasn’t focused on.
So could you just outline the savings -- cost escalation savings that you mentioned in the beginning? Where did they arrived from and I forget now which dollar numbers are they and which year’s numbers are they are they present day’s numbers are they -- could you just explain to me again those savings escalation savings that have occurred over the period of time could you? Yes so to make sure I don’t further confuse it just let me go back so what we’ve been presenting in each BLRA would be the total projected cost each time we file the report each quarter for our 55% share.
And we originally of course we’re improved for $6.3 billion in total future estimated cost and our current projections are just over $0.5 billion less than that about $575 million less.
All of those reports to-date have been focused on the lower escalation if you will the lower inflation during the construction period that the consortium was entitled to bill us for based upon publicly available inflation industries associated with construction.
What we put in our press release today has nothing to do with that.
That is the financing cost what’s the consortium bills us with whatever the escalation is how do we go out and finance it on debt side so the equity side is fairly straight forward 50% we financed in equity through the BLRA and 11% ROE.
The 50% that we financed with debt we’re doing with first mortgage bonds.
We had originally estimated in our BLRA filing based upon our embedded cost of debt at the time.
A debt of about 6.4% whereas overall we issued bonds at slightly under 5% life to-date on the project and all of those are fixed rate bonds.
And so what we’ve disclosed is we estimate that the savings on those over the life of the bonds will be $700 million about $20 million a year and then additional bonds that we expect issue in the next two years that we’ve already hedged the rate on we estimate to save another 500 - 25 million on those over the life of those bonds.
So that’s the 1.225 billion in interest savings we expect to occur over the life of those bonds that are outstanding and completely independent of the escalation to lower inflation on the construction as well.
So if I understand correctly the project currently from the date started is coming in current dollar 500 or 75 or whatever the number is below projected cost as you stand today.
And so we created because of lower inflation or management or whatever a cushion of $575 million from the initial estimates that we gave to the commission.
And that is in the pocket I guess the rate peers of South Carolina are going to benefit from that which has already occurred.
And now I guess the next step is what is the additional cost which has to be of course settled with the consortium which would be on the project from that lower estimated cost that we are currently on.
That’s almost --.
In essence we could come out pretty close to or slightly above there is no cost that we started off at? We could -- one minor clarification of what you just said the 500 million or so that we’re projecting to be below at this point some of that has already occurred some of it is what we project to happen between now and the completion of the project.
So not all of that has occurred yet with that lower escalation escalation could be even lower in the future it could be higher in the future.
So that could change between now and the completion.
Okay that’s further great news.
So how much can you tell me how much of that is banked and how much is not banked? You know I don’t have that in my fingertips Ashar but it's I think it's available in our public filing and I'll have IR file assuming it is.
And second if I can end up Jimmy now based on the spending being moved a little bit further out and reducing the equity needs and of course now you have lowered the pace and all that.
When can you be in a situation and you've been growing more on the kind of in the higher portion of the growth rate when can you be in the situation of moving the growth rate upwards? I don’t know the answer to that question if that will occur or when it will occur we continually evaluate our look and I would say that really the wild card in that is the whole issue we've discussed with two or three Q&amp;As today around base on electricity consumption.
So if it were just a matter of modeling in the BLRA it'd be fairly simple to answer that question you could kind of model it after the peak construction years but when the foundation of the business is changing somewhat even though it's only 0.06% negative when you've got 700 000 customers you're projecting to use slightly less that makes it difficult to answer your question.
So we updated it best to our experience each year and at this point we still feel like it's our best estimate.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison SCANA's Chief Financial Officer for any closing remarks.
Well thank you.
2014 was certainly a very unusual year relative to weather but aside from the weather we're very pleased with our underlying economic growth the operation of our businesses and the refinement of our focus around our core retail businesses.
Accordingly we're really optimistic about our future.
And finally I mentioned that Steve and I will be on the road the first week of March in New York and Boston at investor conferences and we hope to see many of you there.
Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.