Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday July 30 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Thank you and welcome to our analyst call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results and related matters and Steve will provide an update on our new nuclear project.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other investor information directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA’s homepage there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and Other Investor Information sections of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time-to-time may be deemed material information but has not otherwise become public.
You can sign up for e-mail alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and/or Other Investor Information sections of the website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that may be made during today’s call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation.
The required Reg G information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I will begin our earnings discussion on slide three.
GAAP earnings in the second quarter of 2015 were $0.69 per share compared to $0.68 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The improved results in the second quarter are mainly attributable to higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customers growth.
These were partially offset by lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.06 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and expected increases in CapEx related items including interest and share dilution.
Note that even though weather had no impact on earnings quarter-over-quarter abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.06 per share in the second quarter of both 2014 and 2015.
Please turn to slide four.
Earnings per share for the six months ended June 30 2015 were $3.49 per share versus $2.05 in 2014.
The improved results are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains from the sales of CGT and SCI and higher electric margins due primarily to Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth.
Also O&amp;M presented a favorable variance which is primarily attributable to CGT only operating as part of the SCANA family for one month.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather in the first quarter lower gas margins primarily attributable to $0.09 per share from the sale of CGT and expected increases in CapEx related items including depreciation interest property taxes and share dilution.
Although electric margins reflected a negative $0.05 per share due to weather year-over-year abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.11 per share year-to-date 2015 compared to $0.16 per share in 2014.
Slide five shows earnings on a GAAP adjusted weather-normalized basis.
Earnings in the second quarter of 2015 were $0.63 per share compared to $0.62 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date June earnings were $1.97 per share in 2015 compared to $1.89 per share from the prior year.
As a reminder GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS excludes the impact of abnormal weather on electric margins and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI from the first quarter of 2015.
Now on slide six I would like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company’s second quarter 2015 earnings were up $0.07 compared to the same period of 2014.
Increases in earnings were due primarily to the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
These items were offset by increases in expenses related to our capital program including interest expense property taxes depreciation and share dilution.
Year-to-date earnings were also higher by $0.07 due primarily to the same drivers.
PSNC Energy’s earnings for the second quarter of 2015 decreased $0.01 per share over the second quarter of 2014 primarily due to increased O&amp;M and depreciation.
For the six-month period ended June 30 earnings were also down $0.01 per share.
SCANA Energy a retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed a decrease in second quarter earnings of $0.02 per share in 2015 over last year.
This was primarily attributable to lower margins resulting from lower residential volumes during the month of April which was normal [ph] than in 2014.
Year-to-date earnings were $0.15 per share compared to $0.13 per share in the prior year.
Additionally I am pleased to report that SCANA Energy has been approved to serve as the regulated provider for the State of Georgia through August 2017.
SCANA Energy has served as a regulated provider since the program’s inception in 2002.
On a GAAP basis SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.04 per share in the second quarter of 2015 compared to a loss of $0.01 per share in the prior year.
This is mainly attributable to foregone earnings contributions from the city areas that were sold during the first quarter of this year.
For the six-month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $1.44 in 2015 compared to $0.08 in 2014.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI on $1.41 per share GAAP adjusted EPS was down $0.05 from the prior year.
I would now to touch on economic trends in our service territory on slide seven.
So far in 2015 companies have announced plans to invest approximately $750 million with the expectation of creating over 1 800 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
This growth reinforces that the Carolinas continue to be seen as a favorable business environment.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolinas unemployment rate is now at 6.6% and the rate in SCE&amp;G’s electric territory is estimated at 6.1%.
Approximately 60 000 more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Slide eight presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slide is the customer growth rates for each of our regulated businesses.
We continue to see accelerating customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
SCE&amp;G’s electric business added customers at a year-over-rate of 1.6%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at 2.7% and 3% respectively.
This is the first time any of our businesses have hit 3% growth since 2008.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended June 30 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 1.1% on a 12-month ended basis.
We continue to see slightly lower weather normalized consumption at the residential level reflecting anticipated energy efficiencies which is offset by increases in industrial demand.
The residential construction decline has been slightly more moderate than we anticipated but we expect the peak summer months to continue to trend.
Now please turn to slide nine which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $9 billion.
As denoted in the two shades of blue approximately 85% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see that SCE&amp;G’s base electric business in which we’re allowed 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for the 12 months ended June 30 in the base electric business is approximately 9.5% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non BLRA related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Continuing down the page on our new nuclear business we’re allowed an 11% return on equity.
I wanted to briefly mention that under the terms of our recently announced settlement agreement if approved by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina the allowed ROE for the new nuclear business will drop to 10.5% for all prospective requests for revised rates under the BLRA beginning in 2016.
We have had net incremental CWIP over the last year of approximately $547 million and as Steve will discuss shortly we filed our 2015 request for revised rates back in May.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continued to perform well and we are allowed a return of equity of 10.6% and 10.25% in the North Carolina and South Carolina respectively and we continue to operate these businesses within a reasonable range of those returns.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast reflects new nuclear spending as reflected in the recently filed annual request for revised rates with the public service commission of South Carolina in May.
At the bottom of the slide we recap the estimated new nuclear CWIP from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods on which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Now please turn to slide 11 to review our estimated financing plans through 2017.
This plan is the same as was presented last quarter.
On May 19th of this year SCE&amp;G issued $500 million of 50-year bonds at 5.1%.
Also in January we issued approximately $14 million in equity through our 401-(k) and DRIP plans before turning off the plans to new shares.
By acquiring shares on the open market to satisfy the need of these plans we can further utilize the cash proceeds and the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017.
While these are our best estimates on incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes and funding needs for planned project expenses.
And we continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Finally on slide 12 we are reaffirming our GAAP adjusted weather-normalized earnings guidance of $3.60 to $3.80 per share along with our internal target of $3.70 per share.
Our long-term GAAP adjusted weather-normalized average annual growth guidance remains unchanged as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the next three to five years using a base of 2014’s GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS of $3.58.
As a reminder our projected effective tax rate for 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains on the sales of those subsidiaries remains approximately 31%.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
Please turn to slide 13.
I would like to begin by again touching base on the petition that SCE&amp;G filed with the Public Service Commission of South Carolina on March 12 this year that is seeking approval to update the construction milestone schedule as well as the capital cost schedule for the two new nuclear units.
The construction schedule without consideration of all mitigating strategies includes a substantial completion date of June of 2019 for Unit 2 and June of 2020 for Unit 3.
The new capital cost schedule includes incremental capital costs that total $698 million of which $539 million are associated with the delay and other contested costs.
Negotiations continue with the Consortium and neither SCE&amp;G nor Santee Cooper has accepted responsibility for any contested and/or delay-associated costs.
Further we cannot predict when these negotiations will be resolved.
Our hearing with the Public Service Commission took place last week on July 21st and 22nd.
The Sierra Club was the only active intervener in the hearing and SCE&amp;G and the Office of Regulatory Staff or ORS were the only parties that presented witness testimony.
The ORS one of the parties who entered into a settlement agreement with SCE&amp;G also presented the terms of the agreement at the hearing.
A decision by the PSC will come no later than September the 12th.
We are hopeful that PSC will approve the settlement agreement we entered into with ORS and South Carolina Energy Users Committee related to the aforementioned petition.
This settlement agreement signifies that no contested issues exist among settlement parties and supports the approval of the revised construction and capital cost schedules.
As Jimmy has already mentioned the settlement parties also agree to revise the allowed return on equity to 10.5% from 11% for calculating prospective revised rates sought under the BLRA on or after January 1 of 2016.
I’d now like to discuss some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Slide 14 presents an aerial photo of the site from March.
This photo gives you a view of the layout of the site.
And I’ve labeled both Units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up the construction table top.
On slide 15 you can see an aerial photo come in different perspective.
This angle shows the couple of the parking lots for the construction staff of the new units.
And currently there are approximately 3 500 workers at the site.
I would like to mention also that we’re having great success of having the permanent staff for the new units.
We’ve already hired almost 600 of the anticipated 800 full-time positions that will be needed when the units are on line.
On slide 16 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island.
In this picture you can see Module CA20 along with containment vessel ring 1 which has been placed on the lower bowl.
We continue to make progress with the fabrication and placement containment vessel structural modules.
Slide 17 presents a schematic view of the five large structural modules that are located inside of the containment vessel.
This exploded view of CA01 through 05 gives you a better feel of how they fit spatially inside that containment vessel.
Slide 18 shows the lift and placement of the Unit 2 module CA01 which took place on July 23rd.
The 2.4 million pound CA01 houses the steam generators and the pressurizer and forms a refueling canal inside of the containment vessel.
This module is the heaviest lift that will occur during the nuclear construction project.
On the top left you can see one of the module assembly building or MAB walls was removed in order to move the module outside for rigging to heavy lift area.
CA01 was then lifted and placed into the Unit 2 containment vessel.
Slide 19 shows the picture of CA02 which will be the next structural module placed in the Unit 2 containment vessel.
All five sub-modules have been assembled in the MAB and CA02 is now structurally complete.
Module CA02 is a wall section that forms part of the in-containment refueling water storage tank.
Fabrication is nearing completion and the containment vessel rings for both units.
On slide 20 you can see the fabrication as the Unit 2 containment vessel top head.
Once all three containment vessels rings have been placed for Unit 2 this closure head will be placed on top to seal the containment vessel.
Slide 21 shows a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
The containment vessel lower bowl has been placed and the auxiliary building walls continue to take form.
Slide 22 shows the June 29th lift and placement of the Unit 3 Module CA04 into the containment vessel lower bowl.
Module CA04 is a reactive vessel cavity that will house the reactor.
Please turn to slide 23.
On day prior the placement of CA04 the Unit 3 reactive vessel was received on site.
The Unit 3 reactive vessel arrived in the Port of Charleston on June 26 and was transported over the next two days via rail on a specially designed railcar due to the excessive weight of the component.
Once the Unit 3 CA04 is fully encased in concrete this reactor vessel which houses the fuel assemblies will be lowered into it and mounted on top.
Slide 24 shows the placement of the first Unit 2 shield building panels.
Six of the panels each weighing approximately 33 000 pounds and spanning 40-feet were lifted and placed outside of the containment vessel earlier this month.
As the shield building panels are placed and welded together concrete will be poured inside of the panels to create a shield building.
On slide 25 you will see the new nuclear CapEx actual and projected over the life of construction.
This chart reflects our company’s current actual and estimated new nuclear CapEx during the years 2008 to 2020.
It’s reflected in the annual requests for revised rates with the Public Service Commission.
As you can see this year and the next several years are the peak nuclear construction periods.
The green line represents the related actual and projected customer rate increases under the BLRA and is associated with the right hand access.
Please now turn to slide 26.
As you can see we’ve filed our BLRA quarterly status update for the first quarter of 2015 in May as well as our annual request for revised rates under the BLRA.
The Office of Regulatory Staff has completed their review of our request and is recommending to the Commission a $64.5 million revenue increase or a rate increase of about 2.6%.
We concur with their recommendation and anticipate the requested increase in rates effective for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We’ll now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Travis Miller at Morningstar.
I was wondering if you could give a lot of more around your thinking on that settlement why come to settlement why not go to the hearing some thoughts around the terms of settlement general thinking on that.
Hello? So in the State we are encouraged… You heard my question.
Okay.
I heard the question I got the question.
So we’re encouraged entering into settlement agreements.
The Office of Regulatory Staff is also encouraged and likes to promote settlement agreements.
And so we always try to present a settlement agreement to the Commission whenever we go in for any case.
Now we’re not always completely successful.
And in this case the Office of Regulatory Staff ourselves and one of the interveners which is the Energy Users Committee entered into that settlement agreement.
There were a couple of interveners who did not sign on to the settlement agreement the Sierra Club which actively participated and then there was one other entity that did not actively participate in the hearing which is not unusual.
There are a lot of people that sign on as interveners just to get information; they don’t really participate in the process.
So from our perspective it was very positive that we entered into the agreement and we only had one intervener against us in the hearing process.
I think what the interveners got out of it was that they are concerned with rates and by lowering the ROE; they had a small reduction in rates over the term of the construction process.
And it just made it a much more positive hearing process than we had in the past.
Okay.
What do you estimate that rate impact or for you guys an earnings impact from that 50 basis points? Yes we are looking at about a $15 million reduction over about a five-year period.
So that’s the cumulative rough $15 million.
Okay.
And apply only to the rate base effectively that starts from 2016 on? Correct correct that’s prospective.
Okay.
And what if you were to get that money back that contested money do you then get the 50 basis points back or would there be any kind of change there? No the agreement is the agreement.
If we were to -- I think what you’re talking about is if any of the contested amounts we come to some kind of a settlement and/or a lawsuit and were get… Yes.
…to get a refund of some description on some of those costs we would credit those costs back to customers but it would not impact the settlement agreement.
Our next question comes from Stephen Byrd at Morgan Stanley.
I just had one question on new nuclear and just curious your take on in China at the Sanmen project how that project is going lessons learned sort of general timeframe as you understand from that and just trying to think about that in the context of sort of paving the way for the U.S.? We go to China relatively frequently.
We’ve had folks there within the last two months.
So we would like to try to gauge what’s going on the China project.
They have been and continue to be about two and half years ahead of us.
Now some of their issues are different than our issues.
They actually get some issues resolved for us.
I would say that my impression now is that critical path for them really is the reactor coolant pumps getting those installed and getting to their primary side hydros our functional testing.
So they are pushing on those reactor coolant pumps means that they will not be an issue for us.
So they will be off our critical path.
Our best estimate of when they will start up is probably sometime late 2016.
So again they continue to be about two and half years ahead of us.
And just broadly with Westinghouse and just watching what some of the issues with Mitsubishi internationally.
Any further color you can provide in terms of -- it sounds like the issues that have occurred on cost accounting [ph] they’ve been really more international not really U.S.
based.
But any additional color that you can add based on your conversations? The only thing that we could add and I am assuming you’re talking about the Toshiba issues are that we are not aware that our project is involved in any of the cost reporting improprieties.
I know that the report that was just recently translated from Japanese to English indicates that there was a project; I think they call it Project G so they don’t actually identify it but it is a Westinghouse project.
We don’t believe that we have that Westinghouse project.
And I know that they had irregularities one quarter to the next but it did point that over the year things equaled out.
So we don’t anticipate any adverse actions to our project based on anything that’s going on at Toshiba.
Sorry Toshiba not Mitsubishi.
And Project G; was that indicated to be an American project or it was unclear in terms of how it was disclosed? It did not indicate whether it was a U.S.
project or where it was just said Project G.
But it sounds like from your perspective no issues there.
That’s all I had.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Jim von Riesemann at Mizuho Securities.
Hey questions for you if bonus depreciation goes through what’s the cash flow impact to you guys? It’s by ballpark 75 million a year.
Okay.
Would that help albeit the need to have to do any equity in 2017 either under the old plan or the new special petition? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Michael Lapides at Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to check in the BLRA rate increase for November of this year about $64.5 million; I recall a higher number the $69 million or so.
Was the adjustment just due to the change in ROE or were there other changes as well? No nothing to do with the ROE.
So the ROE change only impacts revised rate fillings in 2016 and forward not pretending one.
The difference is that we make our following in May but it’s as of the end of June so we have to project the spending as of the end of June; and then the ORS when they do their work they true it up to the actual expenditure.
So it’s simply just the difference in what we projected versus the actual expenditures.
And did expenditures through the middle of the year come in lighter than what you would have forecast and do you expect that to be made up on the second half of the year or does that get pushed out to some future year? Yes the first part of your question Michael is slightly lighter than we had forecast but it’s really not possible to answer the second part of that; it’s really out of our control; it’s consortium related so don’t know if it will all be caught up in the second half of the year or trickle over.
So there is a shot and you will find out in the course in coming months or so that some of the 2015 CapEx may actually get moved out to later years? Yes.
It could and that’s obviously what’s happened in the past but at some point the points are going to be finished and it’s got to catch up right? So I just can’t tell you exactly what bucket that will fall in.
Totally different the corporate and other costs in the quarter that’s -- I think it was $0.04.
Is that kind of a good run rate to think about and is that all just the holding company debt the 800 million or so kind of the after tax interest on that or there something else that’s in that? No.
It’s mostly the holdco debt.
And I’m not sure if the classification you’ve got has the other subsidiaries broken out or not the smaller ones.
But if they are other -- let me see which ones are broken out there.
Yes so we have like the SCANA Energy marketing businesses grouped in that as well so there is some volatility between -- some cyclical nature to that business too.
So you can’t really take one straight run rate so just the debt would be of the holdco would be probably in the ballpark of $0.08 or so negative per year.
I’m just looking at slide six.
So you’ve got a separate line for corporate and other.
Yes.
And so that was $0.04 in the quarter.
Right.
But what I’m saying is in that the Georgia business is in the line above but the SCANA Energy marketing to the industrial customers is grouped in that line with corporate and other and there is some cyclical nature to that piece of the business.
So it’s not a flat $0.04 times four.
The debt carry itself is probably more than $0.08 range per year.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith at UBS.
Hi guys.
It’s Mike Weinstein actually.
Hello Mike.
A quick question on solar.
I know you guys have a plan to build about 95 megawatts by 2020 under Act 236.
I’m just wondering if you can give us an update on that and where you think solar in the states going even beyond that act? We think that we are going to be on target for the build out under that Act 236 which is going to call for roughly 45ish megawatts of utility-scale solar and then another 45ish megawatts of non-utility-scale solar.
So that’s really aimed at rooftop or community solar.
So the process is continuing.
We’ve had a number of filings with our State Public Service Commission relative to distributor to energy resources and net metering and we’ve gotten some orders out; we expect another one the process I think it’s in -- we expect it in the July or August.
So it’s moving.
We are continuing with our plans.
We’ve got two solar utility scale solar that we intend to construct hopefully we will make some good ground before the end of the year one of them here at our corporate campus on the order of 4 megawatts and then we got about 500-kilowatt system going to going down near the Charleston area.
We do have a number of requests for interconnection to our system from solar generators.
So I would imagine that we will far exceed the 90 megawatts by 2020 but just won’t fall under that Act 236.
Our next question comes from Dan Jenkins State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
I had a question on page eight where you talk about the sales and customer growth in particular on the industrial sales.
It looks still pretty good at 3.8 but I notice that’s the 12-month number.
I was wondering if you’ve seen any change in the most recent quarter versus prior quarters is it any slower quicker if you give any color on particular industries as well.
The industry distribution continues to be fairly spread out among chemicals paper metals.
The most recent quarter is right upon top -- is right on top of the 12-month average right at that same number 3.75%.[Ph] Okay.
So you haven’t seen any slowing -- just some other utilities they’re seeing a little slowing in industrial but you haven’t seen that in your territory.
We have; we’ve had quite the history of industrial announcements here in the State.
The governor has made it a platform of hers and she has been very aggressive about it.
And we’ve got several that have been announced that are yet to really put jobs on the ground and the most recent was expected 2500 jobs in the next two to three years.
So we’ve got some of those things that are still coming around from announcements one two three years ago.
Then a couple of questions just on the new nuclear build.
I think I heard you say the next big modules to places the CA02 is that correct? And if so when… Yes Dan that’s right.
Is that going to be a third quarter event or later than that? We would anticipate that will be a third quarter event.
Okay.
Are there any other key third quarter items besides the CA02 in the critical path? Well we’ve placed the first of our shield building modules and so we would hope to continue to place more shield building modules but we once we get in the first course of the shield building as a relatively short course.
And as you can see from the photographs it’s about 3-foot panel section.
So we’ve placed a number of those sections now; we’re fitting them up; we’re going to start welding on those probably within a week.
Once we get those welded we will be in a position to do our first concrete pour that will be short lift because it has less than 3 feet.
And then we’ll start that with taller panel.
So the panels from here are going to be either 8-foot or 10-foot tall.
So we’ve got different height panels.
But this first course which is the short course and then we’ll go up vertically from there.
So we’ll make some progress on the shield building.
Okay.
How about for Unit 3 what’s next -- kind of next in the queue for it? Unit 3 there will be some -- we’ve got some concrete pours both outside and inside of the containment vessel.
So you probably saw a release that we set the CA04 module on Unit 3 earlier this year that module is kind of sleeve if you will for the reactive vessel.
The concrete pours will go around that and you try to balance the inside containment with the outside containment concrete pours and so it become enough of those.
We continue to make progress on the walls and we’re going to be focusing same on the turbine building.
We’ve completed the base map pour for turbine building.
We’ve got some large structural steel modules that we got assembled outside of the excavation that will be fine into the excavation putting them on the concrete basement.
So you’ll see some turbine building as well as some nuclear island progress on Unit 3.
Okay.
We also should be finishing up on the cooling towers.
Three of the four cooling towers are structurally complete; fourth one is probably 25% along.
So I would imagine we’ll be making good headway on that last cooling tower.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In closing we’re very pleased with our mid-year results as we continue to hit our plan.
We continue to make large strides with our new nuclear construction and are diligently working with the regulators to obtain approval of our new construction and cost schedules.
Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.