Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the SCANA Corporation Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded on Thursday October 29 2015.
Anyone who does not consent to the taping may drop off the line.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Susan Wright Director of Financial Planning and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you and welcome to our analyst call.
As you know earlier today we announced financial results for the third quarter of 2015 and earlier in the week we released an update on our settlement with the Consortium regarding disputes on our new nuclear project.
Joining us on the call today are Jimmy Addison SCANA’s Chief Financial Officer; Steve Byrne Chief Operating Officer of SCE&amp;G; and Kevin Marsh our CEO.
During the call Jimmy will provide an overview of our financial results Steve will provide an update of our new nuclear project and Kevin will cover the key points of our settlement.
After our comments we will respond to your questions.
The slides and the earnings release referenced to in this call are available at scana.com.
Additionally we post information related to our new nuclear project and other investor information directly to our website at scana.com.
On SCANA’s homepage there is a yellow box containing links to the new nuclear development and Other Investor Information sections of the website.
It is possible that some of the information that we will be posting from time-to-time maybe deemed material information that has not otherwise become public.
You can sign-up for e-mail alerts under the Investor Relations section of scana.com to notify you when there is a new posting in the nuclear development and/or Other Investor Information sections of the website.
Finally before I turn the call over to Jimmy I would like to remind you that certain statements that maybe made during today’s call are considered forward-looking statements and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as shown on slide two.
The company does not recognize an obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Additionally we may disclose certain non-GAAP measures during this presentation and the required Reg G information can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations.
I’ll now turn the call over to Jimmy.
Thanks Susan and thank you all for joining us today.
I’ll begin our call by thanking those of you who reached out to us during the historic rainfall and flooding that hit South Carolina earlier this month.
It was and continues to be a trying time for our state and we appreciate your thoughts and prayers as things continued to progress.
While our systems was restored very quickly property damage of the citizens of South Carolina will take a long time to restore and tragically several lives were lost and families altered forever.
Now on slide three we will begin our earnings discussion.
GAAP earnings in the third quarter of 2015 were a $1.04 per share compared to a $1.01 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
The improved results in the third quarter are mainly attributable to higher electric margins due primarily to weather a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense as I will discuss shortly.
These were partially offset by lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.06 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and increases in O&amp;M expense and expected increases in CapEx related items included -- including interest and share dilution.
Note that abnormal weather contributed $0.11 per share and $0.07 per share of additional electric margin in the third quarters of 2015 and 2014 respectively.
SCE&amp;G periodically conducts depreciation studies related to electric plant to better determine the proper annual depreciation accrual rates.
A new depreciation study performed earlier this year resulted in the adoption of depreciation rates which produced an annual decrease to depreciation expense of approximately $29 million.
The PSC authorized SCE&amp;G to implement the new depreciation rates effective January 1 2015 and at the company's request the retroactive $14.5 credit from the application of the new rates from January through June of this year has been used to offset a portion of the deferred fuel balance related to its retail electric operations.
For the third quarter of 2015 and all subsequent periods the incremental reduction to depreciation expense will flow through income.
Now please turn to slide four.
Earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30 2015 were $4.53 per share versus $3.06 in 2014.
The improved results are mainly attributable to the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI higher electric margins due primarily to a Base Load Review Act rate increase and customer growth as well as lower depreciation expense as described earlier.
These were partially offset by lower electric margins due to weather from the first quarter lower gas margins primarily due to lost gas margins of $0.15 per share resulting from the sale of CGT and increase in O&amp;M expense and expected increases in CapEx related items including interest property taxes and share dilution.
Although electric margins reflected a negative $0.01 per share due to weather year-over-year abnormal weather increased electric margins by $0.22 per share year-to-date 2015 compared to $0.23 per share in 2014.
Slide five shows earnings on a GAAP adjusted weather-normalized basis.
Earnings in the third quarter of 2015 were $0.93 per share compared to $0.94 per share in the same quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date September earnings were $2.90 per share in 2015 compared to $2.83 per share in the prior year.
As a reminder GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS excludes the impact of abnormal weather on electric margins and the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI from the first quarter of 2015.
Based upon our results to-date and our expectations for the balance of the year we are reaffirming our 2015 GAAP adjusted weather-normalized earnings guidance of $3.60 to $3.80 per share.
Now on slide six I would like to briefly review results for our principal lines of business.
On a GAAP basis South Carolina Electric &amp; Gas Company’s third quarter 2015 earnings were up $0.06 compared to the same period of 2014.
Increases in earnings were due primarily weather the continued recovery of financing costs through the BLRA and customer growth.
The application of the previously mentioned new depreciation rates also positively contribute to earnings for the quarter.
These items were offset by increases in O&amp;M expenses and expenses related to our capital program including interest expense and share dilution.
Year-to-date earnings were higher by $0.13 due primarily to the same drivers as the quarter with the exception of weather.
PSNC Energy’s reported a seasonal loss of $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2015 compared to a loss of $0.02 per share in the same quarter of the prior year primarily due to increased O&amp;M depreciation and property taxes partially offset by customer growth.
Year-to-date 2015 earnings are $0.21 per share compared to $0.23 per share in the prior year.
SCANA Energy our retail natural gas marketing business in Georgia showed a decrease in third quarter earnings of $0.01 per share in 2015 over the same quarter of last year primarily due to increased O&amp;M.
For the nine-month period ended September 30 earnings were up $0.01 per share.
On a GAAP basis SCANA’s corporate and other businesses reported a loss of $0.06 per share in the third quarter of 2015 consistent with the prior year.
Lower interest expense at the holding company and increased margins in our marketing business were primarily offset by foregoing earnings contributions from subsidiaries that were sold during the first quarter of this year.
For the nine-month period these businesses reported earnings per share of $1.37 in 2015 compared to $0.02 in 2014.
Excluding the net of tax gains on the sales of CGT and SCI of a $1.41 per share GAAP adjusted weather-normalized EPS was down $0.06 from the prior year again due to foregoing earnings from the sale of the businesses earlier this year.
I would now to touch on economic trends in our service territory on slide seven.
So far in 2015 companies have announced plans to invest over a $1 billion with the expectation of creating over 3 000 jobs in our Carolinas territories.
We are excited by the continues growth in our service territories as Carolina continued to seen as a favorable business environment.
At the bottom of the slide you can see the national unemployment rate along with the rates for the three states where SCANA has a presence and the SCE&amp;G electric territory.
South Carolinas unemployment rate is now at 5.7% and the rate in SCE&amp;G’s electric territory is estimated at 5.3%.
Of particular interest and attesting to our states strong economic growth approximately 80 000 more South Carolinians are working today than a year ago.
Slide eight presents customer growth and electric sales statistics.
On the top half of the slide is the customer growth rate for each of our regulated businesses.
SCE&amp;G’s electric business added customers at a year-over-rate of 1.6%.
Our regulated gas businesses in North and South Carolina added customers at an accelerated rate of 2.8% and 3.1% respectively.
We continue to see very strong customer growth in our businesses and in the region.
The bottom table outlines our actual and weather-normalized kilowatt hour sales for the 12 months ended September 30 2015.
Overall weather-normalized total retail sales were up 1.7% on a 12-month ended basis.
We continue to be encouraged by the strong industrial expansion that has in turn led to strong sales growth not only in the industrial sector but also in the residential and commercial markets.
Now please turn to slide nine which recaps our regulatory rate base and returns.
The pie chart on the left presents the components of our regulated rate base of approximately $9.5 billion.
As denoted in two shades of blue approximately 86% of this rate base is related to the electric business.
In the block on the right you will see SCE&amp;G’s base electric business in which we allotted 10.25% return on equity.
The earned return for 12 months ended September 30 in the base electric business is approximately 9.7% meeting our stated goal of earning a return of 9% or higher to prevent the need for non-BLRA related base rate increases during the peak nuclear construction years.
We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy.
Our regulated gas businesses in the Carolinas continue to perform well.
We are allowed to return on equity at 10.25% and 10.6% in South and North Carolina respectively.
Slide 10 presents our CapEx forecast.
This forecast has been updated to reflect our most current CapEx projections for 2016 and ‘17 and is now inclusive of our 2018 estimates.
This forecast also reflects the company’s current estimate of new nuclear spending through 2018 including an estimate of the impact of the settlement with the consortium which Kevin will address later.
At the bottom of the slide we recapped the estimated new nuclear equip from July 1 through June 30 to correspond to the periods of which the BLRA rate increases are historically calculated.
Now please turn to slide 11 to review our updated estimated financing plans through 2018.
As a reminder on May 19th of this year SCE&amp;G issued $500 million of 50-year bonds at 5.1%.
Also in January we issued approximately $14 million in equity through our 401k and drill plans before turning off the plans to new shares.
By acquiring shares on the open market to satisfy the needs of these plants we can further utilize the cash proceeds from the sales of CGT and SCI.
We do not anticipate the need for further equity issuances until 2017 and will turn back on the 401k and drill plans to satisfy those needs.
On the debt side and based upon cash flows and planned construction payments to date we have deferred $325 million of Q4 planned debt issuances and accelerated some issuances from the out years to better align with our expected funding needs.
This plan also anticipates debt to be issued at PSNC to fund its anticipated CapEx spending.
While these are our best estimates of incremental debt and equity issuances it is unlikely that these issuances will occur exactly as presented as they are subject to changes in our funding needs for planned project expenses and will continue to adjust the financing to match the related CapEx on a 50-50 debt and equity basis.
Now I’d like to discuss our 2016 earnings guidance and related assumptions as shown on slide 12.
Our 2016 GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized preliminary earnings guidance is $3.90 per share to $4.10 per share and our internal target is $4 per share.
Due to the cyclical nature of our business we expect to earn approximately 30% of this amount in the first quarter approximately 25% in each of the third and fourth quarters and the remaining 20% in the second quarter.
In computing this guidance range we have included the impact of a base rate increase from our new nuclear filing under the BLRA the accretive impact of the sales of CGT and SCI and our view of their economy.
This guidance also incorporates the CapEx and financing plans we presented earlier.
We forecast electric customer growth to be at approximately 1.5% offsetting our assumption that customer average use of electricity will be slightly lower in 2016.
We anticipate overall weather normalized retail and electric sales growth for 2016 to decline by approximately 0.2%.
We expect operating and maintenance expenses to be approximately 2% higher in 2016 than where we project to finish for the end of 2015.
We also expect continued growth in the CapEx related cost property taxes depreciation and interest.
For the remainder of 2015 exclusive of the taxes on the gains on the sales of the subsidiaries and looking out into 2016 we projected an effective tax rate of approximately 32%.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic about our long-term view and are reaffirming GAAP-adjusted weather normalized average annual growth guidance as we plan to deliver 3% to 6% earnings growth over the three to five years using a base of 2014’s GAAP-adjusted weather normalized EPS of $3.58 per share.
Hopefully this will provide you with some clarity of our view of 2016 as you update your models.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve to provide an update on our nuclear project.
Thanks Jimmy.
I’d like to begin by addressing the impact that the recent rainfall and flooding at South Carolina had on the new nuclear construction project.
As you’ve probably already seen on our website we estimate that this weather event resulted in a loss of about four days of work effort.
I wanted to clarify that the construction schedule has a contingency for weather delays and other events so that missed day should not impact planned in-service dates for the new units.
We have had very little weather impact to date which is why this event should not have an impact on the project.
Please turn to slide 13.
I’d now like to address the public service commission of South Carolina’s unanimous approval for the petition that SCE&amp;G filed in March of this year seeking approval to update the construction milestone schedule as well as the capital cost schedule for the two new nuclear units.
The approval of the petition along with the settlement agreement entered into with the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff and South Carolina Energy Users Committee adjusted the commission approved substantial completion dates to June of 2019 for Unit 2 and June 2020 for Unit 3.
This agreement also allowed for the inclusion of incremental capital cost that totaled $698 million and revised the allowed return on equity to 10.5% from 11% for calculating prospective revised rates sought under the BLRA on or after January 1 of 2016.
Moving on to some of the activities at the new nuclear construction site.
Slide 14 presents an aerial photo of the site from June.
This photo gives you a view of the layout of the site.
And I’ve labeled both Units 2 and 3 as well as many other areas that make up what we call the construction table top.
On slide 15 you can see a picture of the Unit 2 Nuclear Island and this picture you can see module CA20 on the left side of the slide along with the containment vessel first ring which has been placed on and welded to the lower bowl.
If you look through the personnel and equipment hatch openings in the containment vessel ring you can see super structure of module CA01 which as you recall was placed back in July.
We continue to make progress with the fabrication and placement of containment vessels structure and modules.
Slide 16 presents a schematic view of the five large structural modules that are located inside the containment vessel.
This exploded view of CA01 through 05 gives you a better feel for how they fit spatially inside said containment vessel.
As you may know we have now placed CA01 CA04 and CA05 for Unit 2.
Slide 17 shows a picture of CA02 which will be the next structure of module placed in the Unit 2 containment vessel.
Module CA02 is a wall section that forms part of the in-containment for filling water storage tank.
As you see here all five sub-modules have been assembled and CA02 is now structurally complete and has been moved outside of the Module Assembly Building or MAB.
This module is scheduled to be placed sometime in the first half of 2016.
Slide 18 shows a picture of CA03 which is the west wall of the in-containment we’re filling water storage tank.
Four of CA03’s 17 sub modules are on site and three have been fabricated in the MAB.
Slide 19 shows a picture of the Unit 3 Nuclear Island.
Module CA04 was placed inside of the containment vessel lower bowl back in June and the auxiliary building walls as you can see continue to take form.
Slide 20 shows an aerial view of the low profile cooling towers from June.
Three of the four cooling towers are now structurally complete with the fourth 2 Bravo shown on the slide -- sorry -- showed on the slide 21 being about 50% complete.
Please now turn to slide 22.
Here you can see the placement of the concrete foundation for Unit 2 Turbine Building first bay.
The 6-foot thick base mat took 27 hours to pour and consisted of 2100 cubic yards of concrete.
This first bay is the transition from the aux building to the turbine building.
Slide 23 shows the completed Unit 2 transformer base.
These transformer base are constructed with reinforcing bar and concrete and serve as a firewall partially in closing transformers.
These nine transformer base for Unit 2 were completed during August.
Components continue to arrive on site.
On slide 24 you can see some pictures of the Unit 3-Pressurizer arriving in the Port of Charleston.
It was then transferred via rail car to the site.
The pressurizer will be hard inside the containment vessel and will be used to control the pressure and react to coolant system.
Please now turn to slide 25.
As we mentioned during our second quarter call we filed our annual request for advised rates under the BLRA in May.
In response to their request in September the PSC approved an increase of $64.5 million.
The new rates are reflected for bills rendered on or after October 30th.
Our BLRA filings for 2015 are shown at the bottom of the slide and as you can see in August we filed our quarterly status report on our new nuclear project with the commission and the office of regulatory staff for the second quarter of 2015.
We intend to file our quarterly status report for the third quarter in November.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Thanks Steve.
I’m glad to be with you today to provide some details in connection with our amendment to the EPC agreement for the new AP1000 units at the VC Summer site we announced earlier this week.
A number of the key points are summarized on slide 26.
As you know these plants were being constructed under an EPC agreement with consortium of Westinghouse and Chicago Bridge and Iron Subsidaries Stone &amp; Webster.
Westinghouse has announced that it intends to acquire Stone &amp; Webster from CB&amp;I.
Following that acquisition Stone &amp; Webster will continue to be a party to the EPC agreement but as a subsidiary of Westinghouse instead of CB&amp;I.
The amendment to the EPC agreement allows CB&amp;I to exit as guarantee obligation for the project.
Obligations under the EPC agreement are joined and several obligations of Westinghouse and Stone &amp;Webster.
In the October 2015 amendment provides for Toshiba Corporation the parent company of Westinghouse to reaffirm it's a guarantee of the Westinghouse payment obligation.
In exchange for the relief of the CB&amp;I guarantee the amendment of the EPC contract and an option to fix project cost SCE&amp;G Santee Cooper and Westinghouse have agreed to a full resolution and settlement of substantially all loan claims and disputes outstanding under the EPC agreement.
Under this amendment SCE&amp;G has agreed to pay Westinghouse incremental capital cost of approximately $245 million over the $5.247 million approved in the public service commissions’ recent Order Number 2015-661.
This along with estimated escalations and AFUDC would bring the total gross construction cost of the project to approximately $7.113 billion.
The amendment also revises the guarantee to central completion dates of units two and three through August 31 through 2019 and 2020 respectively.
SCE&amp;G share of liquidated damages would increase from $86 million to $509 million.
The new liquidated damages are tied to the new guaranteed substantial completion dates and the eligibility of the units to earn federal production tax credits.
Westinghouse also has opportunity to earn from SCE&amp;G completion bonuses of approximately $303 million or $151.5 million for each unit depending on the timing of the plans being placed into service.
In addition this amendment provides SCE&amp;G for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper an exclusive and irrevocable option until November 1 2016 to further amend the EPC agreement to fix for total amount remaining to be paid for the entire scope of work on the project after June 30 2015 at approximately $3.345 billion which is SCE&amp;G’s 55% portion of $6.082 billion.
This fixed price option would result in SCE&amp;G’s paying Westinghouse incremental project costs of approximately $774 million over the previous escalated amount approved by the PSC of $6.826 billion.
Combined with estimated escalations and AFUDC this would bring the total gross construction cost of the project to approximately $7.601 billion.
If the fixed price option is exercised SCE&amp;G share of a delay related liquidated damages amounts previously referred to would then be capped at approximately $372 million or $186 million per unit.
The completion bonus to be paid by SCE&amp;G with this option is approximately $165 billion or $82.5 million each unit depending on the timing of the plants being placed in service.
Our team worked very hard to include the unilateral fixed price option into this settlement.
We will be evaluating the potential benefits of this option over the next several months.
If elected this option would fix all costs of Westinghouse at an approximate 11% increase over the current PSC approved budget.
We along with our partner Santee Copper believe this option has significant value.
Once final evaluation of this option is complete we will discuss with the South Carolina office of Regulatory Staff our conclusion regarding our decision whether to exercise the option and make a filing with the public service commission of South Carolina.
And important part of the amendment is the development of a new revised construction payment milestone schedule.
Over the next five months or until the new payment schedule is agreed upon SCE&amp;G will make monthly payments of approximately $100 million per month which our share is $55 million.
Thereafter payments will be made to Westinghouse based on construction milestones achieved.
After this milestone schedule is agreed upon and if the fixed price option is elected and approved our CapEx schedule Jimmy reviewed on slide 10 will be updated and our financing schedule will be confirmed as well.
The amendment also modifies the EPC agreement to explicitly define what constitutes a change in law to reduce the likelihood of certain commercial disputes.
A Dispute Resolution Board will be established for resolution of disputes as the requirement or ability to bring suit before substantial completion of the project is then eliminated.
Finally I’m excited to have full cooperation involved in the project.
Fluor was established in South Carolina and has a deep nuclear pedigree with this nuclear division being headquarter in Greenville South Carolina.
We’ve had a long relationship with Fluor and believe they have an excellent record of delivering on commitments.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we will now be glad to respond to any questions you might have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Andrew Weisel of Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Hey Andrew.
First question is on the option to switch to the fixed costs for the construction.
What would be some of the reasons not to do it? You mentioned a lot of benefits.
What might be some reasons why you won’t exercise it and when do you think you might make that decision? Well we will make the decision over the next 6 to 12 months.
We have 12 months to make the final decision.
We want to take some time to let Fluor get acclimated to the project and have them look at the project schedule the timetable associated with the completion dates and get their opinion combined with our valuation of how they intend to approach the completion of the project.
So we can evaluate the option we are under today which is to complete the project with the target pricing along with the fixed and firm.
Both of the project will have to be done is in that target category which means we pay the costs that they incur.
That’s important to us because when we get their feedback on the achievement of the milestones and what risks we think we may have there.
We think we’ve strengthened our risk position there because we’ve increased the LDs on the project significantly.
I think at 6 times if we go under the existing option today.
So once we get the change to fully evaluate the schedule the new completion dates along with their oversight and our complete evaluation I think we will be in a better position to make that decision.
We certainly think the fixed price option is very appealing.
We work hard to negotiate that option into our settlement because it does give us additional protections for rising cost.
Certainly interest rates and projected escalation rates between now and the time we make that decision will have an impact on which way we might so.
But we just need some more time to evaluate that more fully.
Okay.
But it sounds like you are leaning towards taking that option or is it -- do you seem to take that? No.
I wouldn’t make that decision today.
I still think it’s very appealing and certainly it gives us a backstop if we weren’t comfortable with the existing option.
But I don’t want to leave the impression that we have made that decision today because we want that time to evaluate where the projects going what we think interest rates might do in the future what impact that could have on escalation and just the overall time schedule  Got it.
Okay.
Next question is my understanding is that so far your payment schedule hasn’t really been based on the completion of milestones so you need to have a true-up of what’s been paid so far.
Are you expecting to be ahead or behind? In other words are you expecting to get some cash back from cost over today? We are certainly ahead on the schedule because that was one of the things that drove but it was behind many of the speeds on the project that we resolved with this amendment.
In the original agreement there were two types of payments we made.
Some of those were based on time just passing the timetable on the schedule and others were based on actual work done.
That got to be fairly contentious because we felt like in some circumstances we were being billed for work that was not being completed consistently with the schedule we had agreed to in the original contract.
What this amendment does is it resolves those differences.
So everything that’s being paid today is I think I’m confident saying that was below -- it's actually been performing on the project.
We are certainly not ahead of schedule.
So what we will do is we are going to work with Westinghouse in Fluor very carefully to come up with a new construction payment milestone schedule.
We will take about five months to do that.
We’ve estimated during that time.
On a 100% basis we will be paying $100 million per month and then at the end of six months that will be trued-up.
So it won’t be ahead or behind at that point.
And then from that point on once we agree to the schedule payments will be made as milestones are achieved and that will be very simply.
If the works done they will be paid.
If the works not done in accordance with the schedule regardless how much time has passed there won’t be a payment required from us.
So that $100 million is 100% basis so our 55% share will be $55 million.
That’s right.
Thanks Steve.
Okay.
And all of that is embedded in the financing slide you showed through 2018? It is Andrew.
So what we did in updating that schedule is simply took the formula that Kevin and Steve just alluded to and recast the first seven months according to that basis and then the next five months of 2016 we will just use an estimate of what we had there existing.
So we have at least improved for what we know for those first five to seven months and we are just going to need to refresh everything once we get to that point where we are ready to take this before the commission and we will refresh our CapEx and financing schedule at that point.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly since we assume that the financing plans being equity in particular assumes no bonus depreciation and what will that look like if you do have an extension? Bonus depreciation is in the ballpark of $75 million a year.
So that’s the value of it to us.
And you are right it does not assume that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
The next question will come from Julien Dumoulin Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
So with the depreciation benefits in earnings now helping you I supposed and you tell me drive towards close to your authorized ROE how are you thinking about your earnings growth rate here? Obviously it’s better than the 3 to 6 just thinking more dramatically here.
Yeah.
First of all we do -- we have historically done and had an informal kind of commitment with the commission to refresh your depreciation rates every five years or so.
And that’s simple enough to do and get into the rate process when you have inflation related driven rate case every two three four years.
Since we have this strategy of staying out of any base rate increases other than the BLRA we were getting on the outside of that timeframe.
So we refreshed it went to the commission ask them to approve it they did and we’ve implemented that now for 2015 and forward.
So it is a kind of a one-time reset if you will.
Ultimately it will all be kind of put back into the whole rate process at some point down the road or after the BLRA is over and the new units are in place.
But in the mean time you can say we might be on the upper edge or slightly outside the band in the very short run.
But that guidance is a three to five year intermediate band and not just a one year band.
So I don’t know that that really puts us outside of it outside of that three to five year band because we reset that every year.
Right.
But just to clarify real quickly in terms of earning your ROE next year there is no reason why this step-up that you are seeing with the depreciation study that’s a real sustainable benefit occurring to you guys.
It is.
Until the next rate case presumably as you said.
That’s right and everything gets reset.
But we are comfortable with our strategy of earning in that 9% to 10.25% range on the base electric business for the next three years.
Got it.
Based on what we know today obviously.
Right.
And then let me cut back to the sales growth expectations did I hear you right in saying a slight decline next year in the baseline forecast for the '16 guidance and can you expand on why that might be given the year-to-date experience? Yeah the year-to-date experience is inconsistent with the last two years.
If we’re confident that we’re going to get growth year-over-year for '15 to '16 we would have more upside.
And honestly I hope we experienced that because that’s a great signal of the economy in South Carolina if that’s the case.
But at this point our best modeling says that for the first time there will be almost a wash between the incremental margin from new customers offset by the slight margin decline from all customers due to energy efficiency etcetera.
And honestly that’s a good sign for us because as our whole industry has dealt with the last several years the customer growth has been overwhelmed by the efficiency in the decline in average use.
So we are glad we are back to be able to project the breakeven and hope we have the challenge that you alluded to because that’s good news for the economy.
Right.
And then there is no specific customer class here that you’re highlighting that you would drive that right? No but the predominant of it is in the residential commercial classes.
Right absolutely.
All right.
Great.
Well thank you.
You are welcome.
The next question will come from Jim von Riesemann of Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congratulations on a settlement.
Thank you Jim.
I just wanted to follow up on some of the Julien’s questions.
How much is the depreciation affects post the impact fourth quarter earnings? Jim it’s about a $0.03 per quarter run rate so $0.12 a year.
Okay.
And then so I guess the follow-up question to that is your trailing 12 is what 365 366 and your internal midpoint before was 370 on a weather normalized basis.
Do you expect to hit that number? Do we expect to hit which number? The 370 number your internal target number? We do.
Okay.
Secondly switching over to the settlement are the bonus payments included in the capital cost are those incremental? They would be incremental Jim.
They are not included in the base costs we disclosed in the amendment.
Are those shareholders born or customer born? That has not been determined.
They will be before the commission and have a chance to explain both of these options and then which one we choose to go with.
Since we don’t know exactly whether or not those will be paid out or what amounts it might be paid out in for one or both things because it’s done on a per unit basis.
We can’t exactly determine if it’s going to be paid.
We would like to have these projects completed on time and have that a nice problem to have.
We will address that with the commission unlikely to ask commission how we proceed that and my recommendation would be we wait till the end of the project to see where the final cost comes in.
So that’s most likely recommendation to the commission since we can’t determine exactly what that would be today and that might be influenced by which option we take too.
Have you guys chat with the rating agencies yet? Yes.
What was the response? Well those not published anything yet I expect they will in the near term but just to characterize the oral discussions I think it was generally neutral deposit with each of the agencies.
Okay.
Can you just talk about? And then lastly could you talk about how the risk get rebucketed from under this settlement I mean obviously you’ve absorbed some of your own risk that you bought but how much -- what sort of risk would you say that you still retain and the risk that the construction consortium retains? Well I would say our risk profile under either options is significantly enhanced.
And in fact under the existing option that we’ve resolved all of these outstanding issues eliminates the risk of potential litigations and there was issues in the risk that are just inherent and going through that process over time.
And I think the fact that we’ve significantly raised the liquidated damages gives us a lot more protection under the existing contracts arrangement our liquidity damages are 6 times what they were in the original contract.
We still bear the risk of potential increased escalation and just increased interest expense during that time on the targeted dollars and the majority dollars to be spent between now and the completion of the project or in that target bucket.
But I think when you add all of those together our risk profile is certainly reduced from where it was before we signed the amendment.
On the fixed price option that we have in front of us I think that really enhances our risk profile as we shift that escalation risk back to Westinghouse and our only risk would be changes in law or change orders it might be associated with the project and we still got incentives payable under either option it would encourage them to complete the units on time.
So anything that helps that happen in accordance with the schedule and the guaranteed completion date would lower our risk profile.
Jim this is Steve.
I would give one amplification to that under either scenario I think we have enhanced our risk profile because where we get into commercial disputes with the consortium today they largely revolve around the definition of a change in law and they would use the term commercially driven or regulatory driven change and the language around changes that we’ve worked on and incorporate into this agreement significantly restricts what will be allowed as a regulatory driven change.
So we certainly improved it from that perspective.
We also have a contract the EPC contract remember that was signed in about 2008 early '08 and that was based on the -- at that time our current revision of the design certification document or DCD which is about 16.
We were licensed to Rev 19.
So they submitted a couple of revisions between signing it and the final approval.
And so that has caused us some commercial issues in the interim and we resolved that with this agreement by updating the contract to DCD Rev 19 which is what we’re licensed to.
And Jim so I will get a pitch in on this and one other from a financial perspective.
And under the old agreement anytime we disputed an invoice we paid 90% of it as you are aware.
Under the new arrangement if we disputed we don’t pay anything and we get a fairly rapid resolution from a resolution board.
So we think that’s a much better situation too to get all the parties to the table and of course there is one less probably to get to the table than it was in the past.
So let me ask like a worse case basis type question so has Fluor and Westinghouse looked at the quality of work that has been done by CB&amp;I? Yeah I think that Fluor has not had an opportunity to look at the quality.
Fluor will not take over until the deal is effective.
There is a period of time for regulatory approvals of the deal standard stuff perhaps compete slightly by the fact that Toshiba is a foreign entity.
So there are regulatory approvals that need to take place that’s why we think that that will be about a 45-day window and that’s when Fluor will have their first opportunity to assess things like quality.
But Westinghouse has had an opportunity to assess quality as of our folks.
And so we don’t just rely on the quality from the vendor in this case CB&amp;I.
We have our own quality group and own quality inspectors and we send our folks not just at the site but we will send them to facilities that are manufacturing components whether it would be CB&amp;I or somebody else and we will send them whether it’s domestically or internationally.
Our QA QC inspectors have got a lot of stamps on their passports.
So we will be able to assure Fluor of the quality in construction so far.
So you are happy with the quality so there is going to be no aha moment is what you’re saying? Yeah we don’t anticipate any aha moment.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Jim.
The next question will come from Travis Miller of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hey Travis.
Just wondering on this regulatory stuff in terms of a settlement.
One how much were regulators involved in this either the federal level or state level? Was anybody involved and what was that makeup in terms of regulatory involvement? They were not directly involved into negotiations.
Certainly we briefed also regulatory staff before we made up the final announcement of the settlement agreement.
It was our commitment to the commission when we were in there this year talking about the contract changes and getting approvals at that time from the existing contracts that we would come back to them and let them know of any changes in the status of the project.
So we expect to be before the commission here in the near future and ex-partake communication which is a quickest way for us to get in front of them and educate them on more of the details of the contractual amendments involved and how the options would work for the company going forward.
And of course once we make the final decision we would be obligated to go back and make that filing to adjust the timetables and the entity -- excuse me and the cost associated with it.
Okay.
You answered most of my second question there in terms of the regulatory process there but is there a chance that regulators could deny the settlement say it’s not in customers interest? Certainly they have got that option every time we go in but our commission has been very supportive of what we’ve done on this project in the past.
They view it as critical not just to provide energy to customers of South Carolina but it’s a key component of our response to the 111(d) Clean Power Plan.
So it is critical to not just us but also for our partners Santee Cooper.
So we feel like we are within the guidelines of the challenges we put before us to try to complete the project depending on which option we elect.
We will go back and present our case to the commission as to why we decided to continue down the same path why we believe it’s the best interest to elect the fixed option and they generally listen to our testimony and evaluated that and made a fair decision.
I certainly can’t guarantee that but I feel like we would do a good job explaining our position to the commission in a way that they could make a very fair valuation of our election.
Okay.
And what kind of timeline would that be on? When we make the decision or once we make the filing they have six months to render a decision.
So if we were to make a decision for example to elect the fixed price option in early June next year they will have to make that decision by early December.
So it’s a six month window from start to finish.
Got it.
Thanks so much.
I appreciate it.
Yes sir.
The next question will come from Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Hey Paul.
Does the fixed price option cover all materials and labor or just some of the…? It covers all remaining work to be done under the contract from now or actually from June 15th until completion.
So it covers everything.
Yes.
Okay.
And then is there any change in your financing expectations or anything as a result of if you did move to the fixed price things like that? Paul let me go back and add one thing to my previous answer it does cover the construction cost.
We still have transmission work to be done but that’s included in the total expected project cost we provided.
So those numbers all included then because the transmission is outside of the EPC contract as well as owners cost.
Okay.
And on to your next question about financing no change in our philosophy of 50-50 debt and equity we just need to get through the process of reassessing with Fluor making our option choice going to the commission and getting that approval hopefully.
And then recasting the payments accordingly and confirm our financing schedule to that.
Okay.
And then the -- there is some fabrication discussion of moving the fabrication from Florida to other places is that affected by the amended agreement? Yeah.
Paul this is Steve.
The discussion about our facility in Florida that was fabricating some of the sub-modules that was going to be the case whether we stayed under the existing contract or go under either the two options that we’re proposing.
So there's a facility in Florida and they are moving that work from that facility in Florida back to the Lake Charles facility for the trailing unit.
And for the leading unit we’re actually taking those components to our site and we’re finishing the sub-module fabrication there before we found them into the larger modules.
And why is that why isn’t being from what was the reason for the change? I think its two things one it’s that that facility had some commercial issues between themselves and CB&amp;I.
And secondly they had a lot of work to do things were backing up.
They did have some quality issues while they came up speed and we just think we can do it more expeditiously at our site.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Thanks Paul.
The next question will come from Feliks Kerman of Visium Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Congratulations on the quarter.
So this was answered just wanted to clarify.
In our 2016 guidance number what ROE are we assuming for the base electric business? Yeah.
We have been explicit about on ROE but today we’re at about 9.7% and more comfortable will be in the band of 9% to 10.25% for the next three years based on our assumptions to-date.
So is it okay to assume that the next time we follow rate case there would be at the three-year cycle? We clearly said our strategy is to not follow base rate increase while we’re during these nuclear peak construction years so yes that is a safe assumption.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
The next question will comes from Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congrats on the arrangement with Westinghouse Toshiba et cetera.
Sounds like a great deal and look forward to chatting with you about it in more detail at EI.
A couple of minor questions first of all can you give us an update on how 2015 nuclear CapEx is progressing? I noticed the table didn’t have 2015 numbers on it.
Just wanted to see relative to your last disclosure whether there's been any change to the expected spend this year on the project? Yeah.
Michael we are a little behind our expected spend there I’d say in the $100 million or so range.
I don't know that a lot of that will be made up between obviously with only a couple months left in the transition going on them but that’s kind of where we are through the year -- through to-date.
Got it.
Okay.
So we should bring down our 2015 number a little bit and just assume that’s embedded in either those 2016 to ‘18 timeline or in the last year or so of the project? You can in your assumptions I would tell you that from our basis it’s in our guidance both for ‘15 and ’16.
Got it.
Okay.
Real quick on the DNA study and the impact I want to make sure I’m capturing the EPS impact to this correctly.
So next year what is the incremental EPS impact in 2016 that you're not going to recognize in 2015? About $0.06 will impact 2015 and an incremental $0.06 in 2016 for an aggregate $0.12 and that will be the run rate for ‘16 forward.
Got it.
And can you -- I want to make sure I tie that back.
In the slide deck it mentions $0.10 in this quarter -- in third quarter is that just its not the full $0.10 because of rate credit that was done or the reduction that was done on the deferred fuel balance? That’s exactly right.
So we did record three quarters worth in 2015 into third quarter because it applied back to January 1st but the first two quarters went to offset the fuel and so we only got net income impact of one quarter in ‘15 though the Q3 recording.
Got it.
Last thing and looking at the CapEx schedule the utility CapEx in North Carolina the gas utility there seems like that a good bit higher when we get out to 2017 and 2018.
Can you talk about that talk about the timing and plans for potential rate case filings? And how you would or are there other mechanisms that can give you rate relief after spending significant capital level there? Yeah.
Well obviously the low price in natural gas is driven a lot of opportunity for industry for electric generation from gas plants et cetera and that is certainly been the case in North Carolina.
So we’ve had enough lot of opportunities that have popped up.
We have executed some contracts in the last quarter or two that have driven this need to enhance some of our existing plants to grow the transmission system so that was really driving these numbers.
And clearly it’s starting to drive down the earned return and so it will drive the need for a rate proceeding at sometime in the near future.
We’ve not made any final decisions on that but I expect we will have someone announcement around that in 2016.
Got it.
So maybe a case in '16 implemented in '17 or a case in '17 implemented in '18 kind of somewhere in that time horizon? Yeah.
Again haven’t made any final decisions but today I would say it’s more likely your first scenario than the second.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Sure.
The next question will come from Dan Jenkins of State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hey Dan.
Just kind of following on Michael’s question there on the CapEx changes.
And I was looking at the prior one and it looks like 2016 is up by about $260 million or now about a $120 million and 2017 is up by about a $120 million versus why you had in last quarter slides is that due to the additional delays? Or is that due to the work not getting done in 2015 is being pushed in 2016? Or how should I think about that? Yeah.
Dan are you talking about the total CapEx because the numbers I have are that we’re up about $60 million for '16 and down about $60 million for '17 overall.
I'm looking at the bottom of the total estimated capital expenditures at the bottom.
We only have about -- sorry you go ahead.
The slide I’m looking at last quarter for '16 estimated at'17 38 and for '17 at 1617.
That’s not what I have here in front of me.
We’ll have to clear that up.
This is what I -- I’m just holding up part from the website so… Let me give you a little color on what we have changed.
So we’ve made the best estimate we can on the nuclear as I described earlier for 2016 based upon the revised agreement.
The other thing we've done is there are reductions in the SCE&amp;G base electric business just based upon our commitment to scrub the CapEx for that business and try to avoid any base electric rate increases.
The other significant change is adding the CapEx to the North Carolina gas system PSNC Energy and so we added about 75 in '16 and 46 in '17 for PSNC.
So those are the three large changes.
For '16 135 down in electric 53 -- 75 up at PSNC and 115 up in nuclear.
Okay.
Then on a question on slide eight on the sales and customer growth.
Yeah.
And again looking at last quarter’s release I realized these are 12 -- I’m looking at the table at the bottom for kilowatt hours the last I realize this is 12 months ending numbers but there are big changes and why they’re normalized so that the residential went from basically negative 30 basis points to a positive 170 and commercial from positive 30 to positive 140.
And then conversely the industrial went from 3.8% to under 2.3%.
So are you seeing that kind of big changes from quarter-to-quarter? And can you give me some more color on what's going on in the demand from the various customer segments? We are seeing that kind of change from quarter-to-quarter.
And I would tell you that it probably has more to do with the slide before that on the economy than anything else in our opinion.
Let me give you a little more depth on that.
So as I said in my earlier prepared comments there are 80 000 more South Carolinians working today than they were a year ago.
The unemployment rate has dropped from 6.6 to 5.7 but that only tells part of the story.
The workforce has expanded 3%.
So if the workforce were the same level today than it were a year ago the unemployment rate would be less than 3% in South Carolina.
So the industrial recruitment in the state has been a real homerun.
Our governor has made that central to a platform and she has been extremely successful.
And we’ve seen it in the RNC markets as a result of that.
Now contrast that to North Carolina where the workforce is expanded 1.8% contrasted to Georgia where it’s actually slightly down almost breakeven year-over-year.
The South Carolina is really growing.
I guess kind of the concern though is the big slowdown in the industrial sector and what that might being going forward do you have any color down as to why that drop so much? I don’t have any specific no large closings or anything like that that has driven that I’m aware of.
I’m not too concerned about that in the short run.
I know the pipeline of projects that we’re talking about that could be coming around the corner.
I was just met this week with two with our head of industrial area about two new potential large projects in the area.
So I really don’t have any specific concern there.
I think some of those might be related to real-time pricing customers that chose to come off the system during the heat of the summer rather than pay some of the prices they might have had to pay.
Okay.
And then my last set of questions is related to the nuclear construction schedule and kind of the critical mix kind of critical path items.
It sounds like maybe for unit three it’s the CA02.
Is that correct? Say again Dan.
The critical path items both for Unit 2 and 3 so is the next one for Unit 2 that CA02 that you said is going to be placed in first half of ‘16 or is there something else before that? Yeah.
The next one of the structural modules to be placed will be that CA02 that you mentioned.
The critical path right now on the units really is still running through the shield building.
And we did placed first role of those shield building panels last quarter and we anticipate doing some more of those in the near future.
But the critical path for the units really for both units still run through that shield building.
We see the shield building panels fit up the shield building panels and then pour the concrete in the panels once they’re in place and welded.
What about so for Unit 3 is it -- it's pretty much the same as Unit 2 or is there given that there is a year difference in kind of the … Now Dan it’s basically the same story three and three.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s all I had.
Thanks Dan.
Sorry.
Our next question will come from Mitchell Moss of Lord Abbett.
Please go ahead.
Hi just want to get a couple clarifications on the nuclear cost.
Looking at the slide with -- that’s show different option.
I’m sorry -- I’m aging forward to that.
That slide 26.
Slide 26 yeah.
Of the updated amounts comparing the old order to the amended EPC is there a rough break down how much of that is related to the two months delay in the substantial complete dates versus increase in construction cost or others stuff? Yeah.
The biggest part of that would be about $10 million a month and owners cost so approximately $20 million of that would be related to that category.
Okay.
And then if I think about the added cost of going from the amended EPC to the fixed price options it looks like it's around $500 million I guess of the additional project costs.
If I do the math from prior presentations 2017 to 2019 CapEx is projected to be around $2 billion.
So should I think that that incremental $500 million effectively would fix but 2017 to 2019.
If you are not going to make your decision necessarily until late 2016 then effectively you’re really just fixing the 2017 to 2019 CapEx? Well Mitchell we are fixing if we elect the fixed price options but it doesn’t directly correlate any kind of the specific burn rate.
Remember the real different as you look there are about $500 million difference that you point out that really is the risk that the contractor will price and to fix it to us.
So what you’re doing is you are paying risk premium and then they have to make assumptions around things like inflation what the escalation rates are going to be.
So that really is -- was a negotiated number but it really is reflective of the risk but now the contractor will have to take on.
Mitchell we’re reflective of all payments made after June 15th of this year.
If we elect the fixed price option anything we pay or paid since June up until the time we elect that option we get credit for 100%.
Mitchell the CapEx schedule on page 10 we’ve made our best estimate of how those amendments will affect the cash flow in the short term.
But as Kevin said in his prepared comments once this milestone payment schedule is developed we are going to have to confirm the CapEx schedule no matter which option we go with to match that.
So those numbers will change.
I’m sure I just don't know exactly at this point.
Sorry.
They will change based on what? The milestone payment schedule that Kevin covered earlier so we are going to develop -- this milestone payment schedule is going to be tied to specific milestones being accomplished.
And then we’ll confirm our CapEx and financing schedule to that depended upon which option we elect.
Okay.
But once the fixed price option is selected that milestone payment schedule won't matter so much? No.
It will.
It is really critical because what we are going to do here from the next four or five month is develop the schedule.
So there's clarity as to what need to be completed for a payment to be made to Westinghouse.
And so once that schedule is completed there will be dollars assigned to that if we continue under the existing contract.
And then there will be the dollars assigned to that if we were going under the fixed price contract.
So the schedule will remain employed under either option.
But the payment that go along with it will be based on whether we take the fixed price option or continue under the option we’re working under today.
So the contrast that we are going to make any payments in the future after this payment schedule is agreed to based upon the calendar they are going to based upon actual results.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Yes sir.
[Operator Instruction] We have a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey there again.
Sorry to follow-up here.
I just wanted to reach back on this fixed price auction and just kind of understand where the potential liabilities still lie on your side if there is indeed a protracted schedule here? So could you perhaps give us a sense a little bit more? I know you covered a little bit with Paul.
But to the extent you have a timeline shift where are you responsible what specific costs do you responsible for in the fixed price options that you’ve laid out if you choose to go that way? Okay.
The total fixed price options would be $7.601 billion as we’ve laid out on slide 26.
It’s the third or fourth lying down.
That would be the total expected project cost.
Of that the capital cost portion over the year the construction contract EPC contract will be $6.757 billion.
So the additional amount would be escalation to date on the existing work that's been done.
And then some additional dollars the additional $20 million associated with the schedule moving out two months for owner’s cost.
Both of that is fixed in the fixed price contract and that would be based on the guaranteed substantial completion dates of unit two August of 2019 and unit three August of 2020.
And the liquidated damages are key to all of us for each of those dates for specific units.
Got it.
But could you give us a sense of how much would be exposed to and by what variables? If you were to have for instance the shift off of that August of 2019 and 2020 date? Just to kind of give us a sense of the magnitude there I appreciate that a lot of it would be presumably fixed but..? Julien.
This is Steve.
The only thing that would not be fixed would be the things that we would be responsible before outside of the EPC contract so that will be our owners’ cost and then the transmission.
But we can finish the transmission even if the plans are not finished.
So really it comes down just to owners’ costs.
And can you remind us what that is per month? Yeah.
We are looking at a burn rate and owners’ costs at somewhere in the range of $10 million a month.
Got it.
Excellent.
Well.
Thank you again.
Yes sir.
The next question will be a follow-up from Jim von Riesemann of Mizuho Securities.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
I’m going to go back to depreciation a second if you guys don’t mind.
So what were the assets that were changed in the depreciation lines to get such a big number on an EPS business? I’m sorry I forgot that.
No.
I don’t know that you forgot.
And I don’t know I don’t think it’s been published anywhere.
But what we really did we refreshed our entire comprehensive depreciation study across the whole electric systems.
So it includes the T&amp;D and the generation system.
What gen -- can you buck it which was -- might have been generation versus the T&amp;D? And then I’m trying to think what’s your big generation assets are because the older ones already got a long useful life right.
Yeah.
We are down to about five significant generating plants outside of new nuclear.
So I really can't give you the buckets here Jim.
You can probably go to the PSC website and get more details on it and publicly there.
Okay.
But Jim -- big picture Jim it is trying to match up the real expected lives to the depreciation schedule.
And for example at our nuclear facilities we would anticipate that as opposed to just the 20-year life extension that we will be pursuing a second life extension.
So that would take that plant out to 80 years total.
And then we are using actual history on some of the plants that we've been operating and we are extending the depreciation scales out on those plants to get match up with what we really think is the useful life.
Okay.
That’s what I was after.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question will come from David Fishman of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my call.
I just have a quick follow-up on what Michael asked about.
I was just wondering does PSNC have a historical or forward test years.
Historical.
Historical.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
Congrats again.
And our next question will be a follow-up from Feliks Kerman of Visium Asset Management.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up.
When we come down to the point of making decision between the fixed option and the current would it makes sense to get commission approval prior to choosing the fixed option or how should we think about that? No.
The way the process would work is we have an obligation to go back to the commission if there was a change in the price the capital call schedule that they’ve already approved.
So either option would require us to go to the condition at some point so we need to make an election of which options we believe is superior.
So we can go back to the commission ask for approval of that option.
It wouldn’t be likely that we will go back to a commission and say you tell us which one you like and we will hit down that road.
They will look for us to make a recommendation a specific recommendation to them.
And when can we expect that to happen.
We have 12 months from the effective date to make that option.
So -- excuse me it run in November 1 2016 that’s the specific date in the contract.
Okay.
Thank you.
When we will go and ask for it? And ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Jimmy Addison for his closing remarks.
Well.
Thank you very much and certainly so far this year has been very eventful.
We are very pleased with our progress with the resolutions to the negotiations and with our financial results through the first three quarters.
We continue to focus on the new nuclear construction and on operating all of our business in a safe and reliable manner.
And we thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in SCANA.
Have a good day.
And the conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.