Good afternoon.
My name is Kimita and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions).
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.<br><br>I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Dan Tucker Vice President of Investor Relations and Financial Planning.
Please go ahead Kimita.
Welcome to the Southern Company Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Joining me this morning are Tom Fanning Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company; and Art Beattie Chief Financial Officer.<br><br>Let me remind you that we will make forward-looking statements today in addition to providing historical information.
There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements including those discussed in our Form 10-K and subsequent filings.<br><br>In addition we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call.
Reconciliations to the applicable GAAP measure are included in the financial information we released this morning as well as the slides for this conference call.
To follow along during the call you can access the slides on our Investor Relations website at www.southerncompany.com.
In addition these slides are now available to download or to print.<br><br>We plan to cover a lot on today’s call.
Tom will provide an update on the Company’s five strategic priorities along with a few highlights of our 2012 operations.
Art will then provide an overview of our 2012 financial results an economic outlook on our 2013 sales forecast highlights of our latest capital expenditure and financing plans and finally our earnings guidance and dividend objectives.
After closing remarks from Tom we’ll move to Q&amp;A.
As always our goal will be to engage in a full and open discussion but we also want to be respectful of your time therefore based on feedback we’ve received from many of you 2012 was an outstanding year for Southern Company.
As we move into 2013 and beyond I’d like to provide you with an update of our five strategic priorities.
The first priority is excel at the fundamentals.
First and foremost I want to commend our employees for one of our safest years on record.
Nothing is more important than the wellbeing of our employees which requires constant focus and an unwavering commitment that we will return each one of them home to their families in good health at the end of each workday.
While we were not perfect in this regard in 2012 I’m very proud of our employee’s commitment to our target zero safety philosophy.<br><br>We also recorded another year of outstanding operational results.
The peak season equivalent forced outage rate for our fossil hydro generation fleet has been the leader in the industry for six years running and eight of the last nine.
We have also continued our superior performance in transmission and distribution reliability and our customers continue to benefit from our trend of improvement over the last decade.<br><br>We continued the ongoing transformation in our generation mix generating more energy from natural gas than coal for the first time in our history largely as a result of our diverse portfolio and the ability to respond to low gas prices.
Our customers benefited from approximately $1 billion in fuel savings as compared with 2011.<br><br>Operational performance along with our strong commitment to service resulted in top quartile rankings for customer satisfaction for all four of our regulated utilities in 2012.
All of these operational accomplishments are evidence of Southern Company excelling at the fundamental.
But this priority is a broader objective and indicated by any of these metrics.
In fact each of the other four priorities I’ll discuss is an extension of this first priority.<br><br>The second priority is achieving success with our major construction projects specifically Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 and The Kemper Project both of which are continuing to progress in an outstanding manner.
While projects of this scale and magnitude always face unforeseen challenges we continue to demonstrate our ability to constructively manage those issues and achieve a favorable outcome.
Since our receipt of the first ever combined construction and operating licenses from the NRC in February 2012 significant progress has been made on both the units with construction now approximately one-thirds complete.<br><br>Specific accomplishments include a completing of the unit 3 containment vessel bottom head.
40% completion of the unit 3 cooling tower and 90% completion of the unit 4 containment vessel bottom head.
We have also begun [assembly] of the unit four condenser.
In addition on Tuesday the NRC issued no objection letter in response to our preliminary amendment request.
This enables final work to be completed prior to the pouring of basemat concrete.
We intend to pour concrete following the expected issuance of the license amendments later this quarter.<br><br>We are anticipating the Georgia Public Service Commission response to the seventh Vogtle construction monitoring report on February 19 and expect to file the eighth construction monitoring report in late February.
Meanwhile the Kemper project is now 35% complete and remains on track for its May 2014 commercial operation date.
To date approximately $2.5 billion have been spent on the project.
The plant is scheduled to begin to start up activities this summer with first fire going to the [CTs] in June and the first gasifier heat up taking place in December.
Reliable SIM gas is expected to began flowing into the CTs in February 2014.<br><br>As many of you are aware Mississippi Power signed an agreement with the Mississippi Public Service Commission last week that includes a procedural schedule and framework for cost recovery for the Kemper project.
This settlement demonstrates once again our long standing practice of engaging with regulators to achieve constructive dilution and provides a greater level of transparency on cost recovery for this project.
We held a separate analyst call regarding this settlement last Friday.
A replay and related documents can be found on our investor relations website.<br><br>As an update since that call Mississippi made its first filing under the settlement agreement this part Friday.
The company asked for $172 million in rate relief which represents a 21% increase in customer bills.
If approved we expect those rates to be implemented as early as April 2013.
Also the legislation permitting securitization and multiyear rate stabilization has been sponsored by the chairs of the house of public utilities committee and the senate energy committee.
Both bills have been referred and passed out of their respective committees earlier today.
We look forward to monitoring their progress over the next few weeks.<br><br>Overall we continue to anticipate that Vogtle units 3 and 4 and the Kemper project will benefit our customers with clean safe reliable and affordable energy for decades to come.
The third priority involves promoting sensible national energy policy.
This is an area that is especially important right now with the fiscal issues the country is facing and the potential for economic recovery on the horizon.
We have seen some progress in this area recently with the December passage of a bill that preserved a rational approach for dividend and capital gains taxes.
A discussion in which we were particularly active.<br><br>This development should help maintain our ability to attract capital for future energy infrastructure investments but more work remains to be accomplished.
And we will continue to have an active voice in those debates.
We will continue to argue for a balanced approach to energy resources an emphasis on energy innovation through proprietary research and development and the importance of restoring America’s financial integrity.
All for the benefit of the customers we serve.
The fourth priority is promoting smart energy.
As you know we achieved a major milestone in 2012 the completion of 4.4 million smart meter installations in Georgia Alabama and Florida.
We believe however that the concept of smart energy involves more than just the building of a smart grid.
It’s a much broader concept that also includes generation transmission distribution and the beyond the meter uses of electro technologies.
In fact it’s really more than all of that.
It’s really about energy innovation in the ways in which we can use technology to help drive better service and reliably for our customers.
We will continue to dedicate ourselves towards achieving that outcome.<br><br>The fifth priority and it’s really the foundation of our business is about valuing and developing our people.
We will continue to drive performance and accountability in 2013 while also continuing our emphasis on succession planning and cross training.
Over the past two years we have transferred some 700 employees across system lines we had strong 2012 results for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we earned $0.44 per share compared to $0.30 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we earned $2.70 per share compared to $2.57 per share in 2011.
Our full year 2012 results include a $21 million net benefit or $0.02 per share recorded during the second quarter of 2012 for an insurance recovery associated with the 2009 Mirant bankruptcy settlement.
Excluding this item full year 2012 earnings were $2.68 compared with $2.57 per share for 2011.<br><br>As a reminder our earnings per share guidance for 2012 was $2.58 to $2.70 and our adjusted results were in the top end of that range.
Several factors affected our year-over-year results for 2012.
Two of the most significant drivers were the weather and our ability to respond to it as reflected in our successful effort to improve operating efficiencies in our business units.<br><br>Weather in 2012 for our service territory was milder than normal across most of the year which had a negative impact of $0.11 per share.
Weather in 2011 was quite the opposite driving a positive $0.09 per share impact.
This means that weather had a negative $0.20 per share impact year-over-year.
Largely offsetting this impact was reduced nonfuel O&amp;M for our traditional operating companies which drove a positive $0.11 per share contribution for 2012 as compared to 2011.<br><br>The other significant driver for 2012 as compared to 2011 was retail revenue effects for our traditional operating companies which contributed a positive $0.22 per share.
In our slides we have provided a summary of all the year-over-year EPS drivers for 2012.
We have also included drivers for the fourth quarter in the appendix for your reference.<br><br>Turning now to a discussion of our retail sales results for 2012.
Total weather normal retail sales for the full year grew 0.4% over 2011 and 1.7% for the fourth quarter.
Industrial sales grew at 0.2% for the full year 2012.
After a weak third quarter fourth quarter industrial sales grew 1.2% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 six of our top seven industrial segments reflected energy sales growth over the same period in 2011.
Chemicals our largest segment grew 2% for the quarter.<br><br>Other highlights for the fourth quarter include automotive manufacturing with energy sales growth of 7% petroleum refining with 6% and lumber with 9%.
This expansion in fourth quarter energy usage was supported by 3% year-over-year growth in manufacturing jobs twice the national rate and 1.4% growth in total employment in our geographic footprint.
We ended 2012 with 23 000 additional residential customers.
This helped drive weather-normal growth of 1.1% in residential sales our strongest annual growth in that sector since the recession began.<br><br>While our fourth quarter numbers reflect the benefit of additional customers they also reflect the expect reversal of the year-over-year revenue anomalies to which we alluded in our last earnings call.
As a reminder we explained that Georgia Power has refined its methodology for calculating unbilled sales using smart meter data.
Which provides greater accuracy compared to previous years in which the process required more estimates.<br><br>As we peel back the numbers and look across our operating companies we are very encouraged by what we see in the residential sector with overall growth of 1.1% in 2012 about half of which is accounted by customer growth and the rest of increases in usage indicative of a strengthening economy.
Despite promising trends in industrial residential sales -- in industrial and residential sales our commercial sales had remained essentially flat on a weather-normal basis.
From an economic development standpoint the potential project pipeline in our service territories remained robust.<br><br>The current projection includes more than 300 potential projects represents up to 40 000 jobs and $9 billion in capital investment.
The recent announcement of General Motors adding more than 1000 highly skilled IT jobs in Atlanta for its new IT service center is evidence of the type of projects our jurisdictions pursue.
This announcement adds to a string of 1000 plus job announcement in 2012 that included major companies like Airbus Caterpillar Ingalls Shipbuilding and Baxter International.
In fact since the fourth quarter of 2010 we have seen a total of ten such announcements representing nearly $6 billion in capital expenditures.<br><br>However many companies continue to delay final decisions on expansions and relocations until Congress further resolves looming fiscal issues.
These conditions which were noted during our last earnings call continue to persist despite congressional action in December on income dividend and capital gains taxes.
Earlier this month we re-engaged with our economic round table participants.
As a reminder this group consists of several regional economists and executives from a handful of our largest customers.
The round table participants help to validate the observations we glean from our fourth quarter sales results and the assumptions we made in our 2013 forecast which includes forecasted GDP growth of approximately 2%.<br><br>Most of the economists believe that most of this growth will be driven by the higher than 2% growth in the second half of 2013 offsetting what is likely to be a slow start for 2013 while Congress contemplates its fiscal issues.
Most outlooks include an assumption for an improved global economy in 2013 which could positively affect exports out of our region.
Industrial production is seen as improving with an emphasis on business oriented goods.
Participants also observed that housing markets in the region are continuing to rebound with foreclosures decreasing and inventories of developed lots falling towards replacement levels.<br><br>These trends along with continued positive migration into the region bode well for continued residential customer growth in our markets.
Finally our round table participants were cautious in their outlook for the commercial sector but do see growth emerging particularly in the private sector.
That brings us to a forecast of total retail sales for 2013 which we are projecting at 1%.
This forecast is usually the midpoint of a range of potential economic scenarios that result in sales growth of between 0.7% and 1.3%.<br><br>Industrial sales growth is projected to be 2% for 2013.
This growth rate is reflective of previously announced industrial expansions as well as a continuation of some of the increased activity we saw in the fourth quarter of 2012.<br><br>Commercial sales growth is projected to be 0.5% while residential sales are expected to grow at 0.6%.
Our residential customer growth assumptions for 2013 are consistent with our 2012 results of 23 000 new customers.<br><br>Now I’d like to update you on our latest capital expenditure forecast and our financing plan.
Our three year forecast for capital expenditures total $16.5 billion.
As in previous years the largest component of our forecast is maintenance which totals $4.2 billion for the three year period.
Environmental compliance spending including our capital cost to comply with the MATS rule is also significant at $3.6 billion.<br><br>Of the $2.4 billion three year total CapEx for Southern Power approximately $2 billion is allocated as placeholders for potential acquisitions for new self-built projects that fit Southern Power’s rigid investment criteria including a requirement for long term contracts with credit-worthy counterparties.<br><br>These placeholders contemplate additional solo projects primarily in the southwestern United States and efficient natural gas generation projects which are a prominent part of Southern Power’s portfolio.<br><br>As mentioned in our last earnings call we are exploring opportunities to apply our low risk business model in other regions of the country where co-ops municipals and perhaps even other investor owned utilities would benefit from securing long term capacity through bilateral agreements.<br><br>Moving now to our financing plans our forecast assumes long term security issuances of $9 billion for 2013 to 2015.
This financing plan does not assume any refunding or refinancing of existing securities something we have done extensively over the past few years to lower the average cost of our portfolio to 3.8% while lengthening the average maturity to 15 years.<br><br>We continue to target a consolidated equity ratio of approximately 44%.
Based on the capital expenditure forecast of our traditional operating companies alone we do not anticipate any equity needs for the three year period.
To the extent Southern Power finds projects that meet its rigorous investment criteria we could need as much as $300 million in any one year.<br><br>Now I’d like to share our earnings guidance for 2013.
For 2013 we are establishing an annual guidance range of $2.68 to $2.80 which represents a growth rate of approximately 4% over our 2012 EPS guidance range and encompasses numerous planning scenarios for normal variances in weather the economy and operating expenses.
Our long term earnings growth rate is 4% to 6% represented by a range extrapolated from the top and bottom of our 2013 annual guidance.<br><br>This slight revision in our long term growth rate is consistent with the significant reduction we’ve seen in environmental compliance capital which has been further reduced in our latest update to reflect the longer compliance horizon for potential coal ash and water rules and the cumulative effect of slow economic growth over the past few years.<br><br>One final note on our earnings outlook.
Our first quarter 2013 earnings per share estimate is $0.51.
As most Southern Company investors know our common dividend has been a key component of our value proposition for decades.
2012 marked the 11th year in a row that our dividend was increased a practice that continued even during the difficult economic times of just a few years ago.<br><br>We have always taken the long term view of dividends and recognized that the informational content of our policy around dividends and actions is important.
Supported by the earnings growth assumed in our guidance Art.
I am always proud and almost never surprised by our ability to deliver superior results.
For more than a decade now Southern Company has maintained a singular steadfast commitment to a low risk customer focused business model that in turn has resulted in an outstanding track record of operational and financial performance.<br><br>Our ability to sustainably deliver clean safe reliable and affordable electricity continues to be the foundation for our success.
We maintain that same focus for Southern Power remaining committed to a low risk business model that deliver exceptional value to shareholders.
As we do with our traditional operating companies we keep it very simple with Southern Power.
In short we require Southern Power to first sign long-term bilateral contract second partner with creditworthy counterparties primarily co-ops and municipals and third take no or minimal fuel or transmission risk.<br><br>Sticking to this model has produced solid results for Southern Power since it was formed in 2001 and has kept that business unit poised to deliver continued value and growth going forward.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver superior risk adjusted total shareholder return.
Over the last decade this has been driven by strong earned returns for our traditional operating companies steadily growing cash flow and earnings at Southern Power stable earnings per share growth and finally a sustainable growing dividend.<br><br>All of this while maintaining the best overall financial integrity and credit ratings in the industry.
In today's uncertain world none of in this industry know what challenges may lie ahead.
Southern Company has demonstrated a track record of anticipating future challenges and managing them successfully for the benefit of our customers and our investors.
We appreciate your interest in Southern Company and we take seriously our obligation to build successfully for the future.<br><br>We are now ready to take your questions.
So operator we will now take the first question.
I guess when I look at your earnings growth forecast for the next several years as articulated by the growth rate your growth rate you know the high end is [plenty lower] you are at 4% to 6% versus what you thought you could do on a multiyear basis off of last year’s base starting which was 4% to 7%.
And I know a lot of stuff moves around in your CapEx forecast where you are spending money how you are financing it.
But if you could summarize what are the key factors that have caused you to reduce the high-end of the growth rate for us it was simple.
What we said last year -- I know we got a lot of questions before that how do you hit 7% growth year-over-year-over-year.
And it really dealt with the outcome on the MATS compliance.
Remember last year and even the year’s before we were projecting with the proposed MATS rule something like 17 bag houses.
As a result of the final rule recall there were like 11 major segments of comments that were filed by the EEI that we were influential in.
One of those dealt with schedule ten of them dealt with some technical issues that were critically important.
And as a result of the resolution of it at least four of those ten it’s caused us not to build 17 baghouses but 4.<br><br>There were other corresponding changes but the net effect is that CapEx over the three year period is less than what we have projected.
The other thing that is in our CapEx that you will notice is that we have pushed out CapEx associated with ash and water.
So we’ll see how that resolves itself probably five years let me deal with your O&amp;M question first.
If you look over the last three or four years including Southern Power net income.
You may note that in 2012 we had our best year ever earning net income at $175 million.
We did have one downturn that was in ’10 and that was really associated with the downturn in the economy.
So that explains that.
Yeah we are bullish for Southern Power.
They have this wonderful I think business model that we’ve replicated to have a risk profile similar to our traditional operating companies whereby we have a long term bilateral contract credit-worthy counterparties little or no fewer transmission risks.
I think that works wonderfully.<br><br>We think frankly we’ve been turning down business kind of outside the Southeast and think that we’re willing to consider some projects outside the southeast but which meet our rigorous business model.
Frankly we think this is a gap that we can help fill in some of the deregulated markets particularly in the near term Texas and MISO.
So let’s just see what happens there.
Otherwise we’ve been reasonably active in the renewable space.
So you’ve noticed our announcements on solo projects.
We’ve done the biomass deal Paul Inc.</strong><br><br>When I look at your again going back to your ’13 guidance if I look at 2012 you reported 268 and then you told us that weather versus normal hurt you by about $0.11.
So on a weather-normalized basis you would have been around 279 if my math is right.
So your ’13 guidance 268 to 280 gets at best you are flat and it could be down if you take the midpoint or lower.
I know Art talked about O&amp;M but is there anything else that’s causing assuming normalized weather Ali again we talked a lot in the last call about the uncertainty around the economic outcomes in ’13 and we are still allowing for I guess some of that downside effect.
Because there is still a lot of unknowns out there.
There is still a lot of people on the sidelines waiting for signals to move ahead.
And that has nothing to do with you have added back weather to the number without considering what we would have done with O&amp;M.
And that facts are we cut a drastic amount of O&amp;M in 2012 in order to offset that weather impact.
And so you can't make the single assumption that your earnings would have been if weather had been normal think about it.
We improved earnings by $0.11 an we had headwinds of year-over-year weather of $0.20.
So we have kind of been through this before I think.
We do manage our O&amp;M based on the strength of the system based on weather.
Also with the advent of weather related revenue we take advantage too in essence fix the roof while the sun is out.
And actually [add to] our maintenance.
The evidence that this all works is borne by the fact that our operational performance in terms of our generation fleet in terms of our transmission distribution in terms of our customer satisfaction numbers Inc.</strong><br><br>Okay.
And Tom if I go and take it a little bit further does in your assumptions you have assumed 1% weather-normalized sales growth kind of mid-point for ’13.
Now as I recall the old equation that equates to about $0.08 or $0.09 of earnings incrementally in ’13.
So it looks to me that it’s all coming back to the cost side going back Art you talked quite about the comparisons.
Is that fair I mean because you are getting the weather-normalized sales growth in there and yet again be they economic be they weather be whatever.
This notion of value on counting Southern as one of the handful of companies they follow is having an earnings predictability score of 100%.
But we can never predict the future.
We have been able to provide for earnings per share growth over the years that is regular predictable sustainable.
And that strategy has enabled us to have a dividend policy that likewise is regular I think there is another element there as well.
I mean you think about economic growth we certainly didn’t get the weather-normal sales growth we expected in ’12.
So you are starting from a lower base there.
And our growth rate around the economy and our sales growth continues to be less than historical levels.
So until we get back all of our segments back into the full engagement Inc.</strong><br><br>Understood.
Tom I wish you guys could see how we obsessively prepare for these calls and we really work on our language and try – we really struggled with what our language should be about our expectations and I forget what we said we were optimistically cautious this time.
Listen we are seeing signs of recovery here.
While we did he see a flattening in the last half of '12 of industrial sales when we look at our economic development backlog and we have – think about this only 0.3% of manufacturing facilities employ 1 000 people or more but Southeast over the last two years has gotten 10 of those and in fact we've gotten five recently and some of those could be significant.<br><br>Airbus has 1 000 people direct employees but we think 4 000 indirect.
You add on top of that Caterpillar and Baxter and Ingalls and a variety of other things GM IT workers and we're starting to see I think in the residential and the customer growth numbers the fact that we are adding jobs in the Southeast.
Look we could be conservative here.
I'll admit that.
But let me give you one more comment on the fiscal side.
When we gave you the comment in October on that call I have to compliment our economic forecasting guys and the marketing people at Southern that are very close to their customers.
I think we were right on the money with what happened in the economy in the Southeast and I feel good kind of about where we are now.
I think the issues – remember we talked about uncertainty related to fiscal issues and the fiscal cliff and all that.
We did avoid the fiscal cliff in a so-called way but I would argue what we really did was a tax patch.
It was helpful and certainly helpful to our industry and any dividend related investment but we still have fiscal issues to deal with.<br><br>The constructive kind of evolution of that discussion really goes to the notion I think that Congress will not use the national debt ceiling as hostage in these deliberations.
Rather moving to a more constructive approach of proposing solutions for example that are sensible like requiring the Senate to come up with a budget.
So we still have big issues but I think the issues are being handled in a more constructive manner.
And I think therefore our kind of color on where we believe the economy is headed is slightly more bullish than we were say the near term – the Greg Gordon answer was exactly the right answer.
How we got to 7% before was building a lot of bag houses with 17.
It was that kind of CapEx environment because we were successful in arguing some of the technical issues on HAP MACT for the benefit of our customers.
We're not going to spend as much CapEx complying with MATS and therefore because we're deploying less capital the growth rate drops on the top side from 7 to 6 but the fundamentals of our business remain strong.
Who knows what happens outside the three-year period? And recall the CapEx associated with ash and with 316B and a variety of those issues are really out of this three-year period.
So the presumption as you're making it are in the next three-year period.
We'll only comment on the three year period we see ahead.
Look I think the fundamentals for our business are exceedingly strong.
And I think the cards we have while we all have challenges but I mean it is a little slower.
When you think about kind of our focus is one either renewables and that has been where the renewables are desert Southwest largely a little bit in Texas otherwise gas-fired generation.
When you look at I think some of the flaws of the deregulated markets the so called organized markets they have not been able to build within those market structures long-term capacity commitments.
We think we have demonstrated success in a business model which permits those kinds of investments to occur.
So we see some attractive markets available.<br><br>Southern Power has brought some of those deals back to us and we have kind of said no we like where we are.
The question we have been asking ourselves over the past year or so is kind of a little closer view of what types of projects you would be looking at what regions Kit it would be similar to what we have been doing.
Southern Power’s capacity is something like 95% gas-fired.
So it’s going to be combined cycles maybe some CT.
And the other thing I would just add to you when we think about the Southern Power strategy this is not a significant contributor in the next year or two or three.
Rather our strategy here positions us well a long term.
To say it another way Mark it’s obviously going to be beyond the three-year window.
Does that mean that you are not currently participating in any RFPs I don’t want to comment on anything they are doing from a commercial standpoint.
I mean in terms of participating with RFPs and everything else if you just look at the trajectory of net income in the package that we have given you I would follow if I were doing planning assumptions guys.
I apologize if I missed this but the – I noticed that your growth – I was wondering whether that 0.6% sales growth for GDP was still the case with your 2013 sales growth forecast and if I am – if it is let me add one thing.
It’s just kind of interesting (inaudible).
There's been great interest in net of energy efficiency are we still seeing consumption growth and in fact we are.
We've done more science on that work that we showed a lot of you all in October or I guess it was November the financial conference.
And in fact what we're seeing is for the Southeast anyway energy efficiency has almost no influence on the consumption of our customers.
88% or so of usage can be explained by either the income growth of our customers the price of our product and weather.
If you account for those three things we see a growth in square footage per person with the residential sales growth does seem very strong in the fourth quarter and I'm sorry if I missed this again why was it so strong in the fourth quarter? Was it because of the employment figures you were talking about? I wasn't clear on that exactly for residential sales it was like negative 2.1%.
In the fourth quarter it was positive around 5% the percentages aren't alike but they shouldn't be because you're moving kilowatt hours out of a very heavy quarter of usage into a quarter of usage which is rather light obviously you're pretty close with a number of the key opinion makers in Congress and on Capitol Hill.
With regards to this thought that the executive branch could try to resuscitate carbon regulation on carbon tax I think there's very little chance of anything like that getting through Congress.
So you're right to kind of look at will EPA be able to put something in place that will advance that cause.
So right now we know that EPA is evaluating or has made a proposal on new sources.
Interestingly Southern is the only company still committed to robust proprietary research and development.
We have developed our own technology.
The Kemper County plant actually meets and exceeds the proposed new standards for carbon for new generation.
So that's kind of interesting.
We'll see how that goes.
There are lots of comments going in and we'll wait eagerly to see what the final rule looks like.<br><br>But it is pretty clear that if the proposed rule is anything like I mean the final rule is anything like the proposed rule conventional coal generation is just not doable.
So they are really making an energy policy statement there.
One of the things that I have been pretty vocal about here lately and that is this energy policy issue.
I've been very clear that energy policy is the purview of Congress.
Congress has the portfolio really as we do in thinking broadly about the ramifications of such policy mechanisms.
For example we say we need clean safe reliable affordable energy.
EPA will tend to focus on clean without taking into account perhaps all the other issues that are so important to balance for our customers' wealth there.<br><br>I go back to the families we serve 48% of which make 40 000 or less those folks make tough kitchen-table economic decisions every day.
Their demand for energy is relatively inelastic and so anything the EPA does which adds cost to energy tends to slow down our economic recovery and causes them to make choices for things like housing healthcare food unrelated to each other.
First question can you talk a bit about Vogtle just in terms of there was testimony in the seventh monitoring report.
Regarding just potential delays especially if the concrete pour didn't occur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Just kind of give a broad update in terms of just where you are versus the schedule and how the schedule may or may not move.
And then second when you think about Southern Power there are more infrastructure funds and various energy funds out there than there probably are projects and you have what is a collection of very good assets that many of which are contracted for very a long time.
Just curious if you've thought about monetizing that business in terms of so I'm going to hit that last one first.
We've kind of chatted about that for years.
Wait a minute we are EVA driven here.
In other words we always kind of look at what is the return on invested capital versus our cost of capital and if we can beat our cost of capital we create value for shareholders with every dollar we invest.
So that's kind of how we think about Southern Power and from time to time there do kind of develop in the market opportunities to monetize those assets.
We certainly consider that.
You remember one time it got pretty high.
My caution to you there would be that we remain customer focused and many of our customers are co-ops and municipals who had entrusted us with full requirements obligations for long periods of time.
We want to honor the relationship we have with those customers.
That's why we get the business.
And so we're not going to just transact to get the next dollar.
We want to be very careful to take a long-term view on developing the customer base and growing as much value in a sensible way as possible.
With respect to Vogtle we've talked a lot about that in the past and I'm going to kind of point here to the VCM 8 that you're very aware of in terms of VCM 7 testimony that you obviously are very aware of and there was a lot of discussion back and forth about that.<br><br>And recall that we were reluctant to kind of weigh in in a very specific way in the VCM-7 discussion it was clear that our contractors were operating on mid-17 mid-18 schedule.
There was a schedule that our contractors were following.
We had not agreed to that schedule.
Recall that the commercial dispute we have with our contractors deals with delays that came from the licensing from the DCD to the COL and how that may manifest itself in the project.
What I would do I think most constructively here is point you to our filing in VCM-8 I cut myself off.
Tom make sure I'm answering this right is a longer term GDP expectations and we think that our electricity sales will migrate upwards into say a 1.4 yeah correct.
So I'm sorry so just to be clear but it's 1% this year and beyond this year 1.4 going forward.
But the bigger indicator I think is watch CapEx.
If you look at rate based growth based on the CapEx we're showing roughly $5.5 billion a year augmented by whatever Southern Power does opportunistically Tom.
And then I'd also ask on Vogtle and there have been this press reports about the vessel being stranded in the port and issues with the Rail Corp.
Can you give us your version of what's going on with that your story how big an issue is it but I don't think it's particularly important.
We'll be able to manage that little bump in the road excuse the pun I guess Anthony this is Art.
There are a couple of issues at Supreme Court who is really kind of muted by the company and the commission agreeing to the settlement agreement in front of the Supreme Court.
Those folks have basically put that issue in advance.
Our expectation is ultimately that piece will be dismissed.
So of the three pieces one has kind of been muted by the settlement agreement we think it will be dismissed in the future.
The second is an individual from Hattiesburg on the other side is the Attorney General of Mississippi and then the third is just the Sierra Club appealing the second amended certificate Angie there was a number of things that influenced the fourth quarter.
One of those was -- you hit it right on the head was our sending some were there for up to two weeks.
So you had the benefit of lower fuel expense.
You had mild weather.
You had personal income growth associated with the economy.
So as essentially disposable income went up maybe a little more.
I won't go into that detail but we also had lower O&amp;M than expected.
We kind of back ended our activities on O&amp;M to the third and fourth quarter.
So what was it our eastern coal units had a capacity factor in the high 20.
So they just weren't stressed very much.
The other thing is along with Smart Grid along with our smart meters along with a variety of other initiatives that we have in place the system is just operating more efficiently.
We make systematic improvements in our business practices.
We create optionality in our expenses and I think our 26 the share buyback in the fourth quarter I might have missed that in previous quarters we were trying to match our equity with what was going on in our construction program.
And we target approximately 44% equity ratio.
So in order to get there we had talked about I guess two quarters ago two calls ago about buying back some of that equity that was being issued to keep us at a certain target.
We ended up the year at a 43.7% equity ratio which is kind of where we like to see it.
So that's true we put $445 million into our pension this year we really take advantage of the good performance.
Sorry the load growth assumptions.
I heard your views on energy efficiency.
When you look at the EIA so the Department of Energy's expectations of load growth even they expect about 1% or even slightly below 1%.
So your 1.4% assumption if EIA dials down their national projections for the southeast and then you account for weather the assumption would be from EIA that growth is low.
But when we do it when we strip all the stuff out and we can get very granular I apologize.
Southern Power's profile of earnings starting from what you reported in '12 you tend to get more of a near-term pop.
If you're dealing with the gas combined cycle but let me ask you wouldn't you be more inclined to like – even my home utility over here in New York has gone into solar.
Isn't like solar near term getting that something more on your wish list versus building or getting we really like long-term results.
We are always cautious as a matter of corporate dogma not to invest in tax-advantaged investments as a primary strategy because that tends to be addictive behavior.
In order to provide a long-term growth trajectory you have near-term pops and you've got to double it for the next year and double it for the next year and double it for the next year and they you'll find yourself on the air because of storm activity or a variety of other things in tax carry forward positions.
And therefore your tax benefits aren't worth what you thought they might be.
I don't like particularly – tax-advantaged investing is a long-term good corporate growth strategy.
The other thing is it could disappear into the hands of Congress at any time right? We know that we're in a revenue-hungry Congress and how long can Congress afford to hand out preferential treatment to the renewables industry? So there will be some tax-advantaged investing in the form of solar investment I get that I guess there was this cooperation that you guys did with Turner what is the ratio 90 to 10? So we invest 90% you talked a little bit about what's going on but you've also announced a number of plant retirements they are factored into our plan.
They'll disappear as we move through time but those units probably have capacity factors that are well below the number Tom mentioned a moment ago.
So their O&amp;M levels and operation levels aren't very high to begin with.
So we are Dan.
Tom already mentioned I think in some of his remarks we'll begin to finish up the rebar under these preliminary amendment requests that we have been approved by the NRC.
We plan to pour our first nuclear concrete sometime in March.
And after that we can set the cradle which will hold the bottom head and those are expected to be done in the second quarter of the year.
So that will move things within the nuclear island along a good bit.
So I think the pictures that we showed you on some of the slides do more justice than any of the specific descriptions because you can see just by the pictures alone year-over-year that plant has come a long long way.
We've got specific work on the gasifiers going on.
That's going to be completed sometime within the next quarter and that is a critical piece of it.
We still have piping that is being installed as well.
So operator.
I just want to thank everybody on the phone and I appreciate everybody's kind of economy in their questions.
We love to engage you in a very transparent way.
We hope we've done that on this call.
Certainly if there is any follow-up Dan Tucker Art myself Jimmy Stewart others are glad to engage you on any issues you want to follow up on.
Thank you for following our company sir.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Southern Company fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.