(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Your line is now open.
Two things first of all can you talk about the sustainability of the margin improvement which was quite remarkable in the core CDIY business as well as in the Power Tool business of Black &amp; Decker Power Tool business? Obviously you talked about cost improvement contributing to that but can you talk about the sustainability of what are pretty strong levels of profitability in those businesses? You said two things Eric.
That's the first part.
There's a second part as well which hopefully I'll be able to ask once you're done with that.
Jim why don’t you talk about COE and everything else that contributes to that?  Clearly the story as I mentioned in my remarks has everything to do with the fact that on a combined basis these companies you know took out well over $600 million of costs close to $700 million of cost in the last six quarters before the end of the year.
So that cost is obviously not all coming back and when the volume comes in there is some cost add backs and both of the businesses but we’re here to enjoy some operating leverage and make some selective reinvestments in growth as we move forward and we will monitor and allocate those growth reinvestments as we go but the expectation here is that we’ve gone through a lot of pain both organizations over the last couple of years and we expect to enjoy the fruits on a more granular basis when you get into gross margins both companies have a tried and true productivity regiment somewhat different we’re taking the best of the best and putting them together in those cases.
I think Stanley has probably been a little more Legacy Stanley has been a little more focused on pricing core competency in the organization and I think we have some opportunities to drive that through the new company and help drive some positive improvement in gross margins in particular in that area but I would also say that I think that inflation is something that we all need to be as Don pointed out we all need to be cognizant that as this economy heats up we’re already seeing the early signs of commodity inflation so there will be some puts and takes here as we go and we’re probably not going to get a 100% price recovery just like we didn’t get a 100% price recovery in legacy Stanley since 04 we got 80%.
We can get somewhere between 60 and 80% as a combined company I think we’ll be doing quite well but it’ll be a lag time in that regard and that’s why Don’s guidance may seem a little cautious to some folks including you Eric based on something I read.
I think its probably appropriate I think the margin rates that we’re at today certainly seems sustainable to us but you know we’re three weeks into our relationship here so you know time will tell.
And I guess the follow up when you originally presented the targets I think the original presentation was that there would be I’m looking at a slide that said $0.20 to $0.45 of dilution in year one and there’s a lot of moving parts with these numbers I understand but can you help us understand how this guidance is up from the core Stanley Works guidance for 2010 the stand alone guidance you gave out of 4Q and so it looks like your guidance suggests that this is going to be accretive the combination will be accretive in year one and the original guidance was for dilution hopefully that’s clear enough but can you just talk about what that is relative to where we started? There’s a lot of puts and takes there.
But Don will give you more granularity on that we expected that question.
Eric your exactly right its part of the November guidance we provided.
We did believe that they would be dilutive in year one but keep in mind as you know there were some pretty conservative assumptions around top line growth in that November guidance around 2%.
Total growth for the entire combined company in year one.
Now obviously we are looking at growth rates that are more around four to five percent.
Additionally we are starting to see the effects of the leverage from that volume so you can begin to see the accretive impact of that.
And that’s really what’s driving that $0.25 to $0.30 improvement from what we were thinking back in November of last year.
Perfect that’s great thank you.
Thanks a lot.
And thank you for a lot of good material in preparation for this because I know a lot has to go into making this into a coherent form to us outsiders.
First question if we look within the CDIY business you commented that you're not seeing a lot of orders in the home center channel.
Could you comment on the sell-through of what you're seeing there? And then the second question big picture as it relates to synergies if you could comment early read on revenue synergies of what you're thinking there? And with regards to SFS how long do you think it takes Black &amp; Decker to get the rhythm that Stanley has from an SFS standpoint? Jim this is John.
I never heard four questions knocked in so quickly well we don’t have you on the buzzer but let me try them all and Jim will jump into help.
In terms of restocking and sell through it’s a little early as you know and everyone on the call knows the home centers close their fiscal books at the end of January which is always a relatively soft month for we as suppliers in terms of volume.
So when we shift in February and March we do believe its helping with restocking.
In terms of POS all I will say is there is nothing out of the ordinary yet.
And I don’t want to say any more than that the simple reason being without inventory there can’t be any sell through and inventories have been so low up until about March that we think POS has been constrained of our lack of inventory at retail.
So we’ve seen no dramatic increases we’ve seen no decreases but the simple answer is it’s one to three months early to make any kind of I would say projection or draw any kind of conclusion based on that.
And I hope that its clear so modest restocking constant sell through we think we are going it’s going to take a few months of inventories.
Being at a more robust level in the stores before we can expect the kind of POS lift that we are hoping to see.
In terms of revenue synergies its early days we’ve been in I would say file and agreement across the two companies that they are there as I referenced they are more it’s much more motivating and inspirational to work on revenue synergies.
But I have to say first and foremost we need to be sure the cost synergy plans are in place.
They are being executed and that’s embedded.
We’ve only recently since we’ve been able to put the two companies together at the very senior levels of management top 12 people in the combined company established a process for identifying re-sourcing and managing any potential conflict with revenue synergies relative to cost synergies.
Because conceivably one could get in the way or the other so there has to be a way to establish the appropriate priorities and to the extent of conflict exists resolve it.
As I mentioned in my introductory remarks there’s actually a formal presentation at the end of May to the steering committee where we think we can we will be a little bit more granular internally and that something material takes place.
Obviously we’ll be public about it otherwise we’ll just talk about the status in out next quarterly review.
Lastly in terms of timing for SFS Jim said it best.
It’s an evolution it’s not a revolution.
This is not a silver bullet its not an overnight phenomenon it’s a very very long journey.
I’d like to think with the very willing audience and or if you will body and that’s the entire Black &amp; Decker operating and management team.
They’ve seen the positive impact it’s had for Stanley over the last three years.
But I'll say our own experience.
We started talking about it four years ago.
We started really embedding it three years ago and it’s taken while the improvements been gradual it’s taken three years to really really really see the fruit on those trees.
So I like to think we can do a little quicker because we have some more.
As Jim pointed out we’re applying it across a much much larger base.
So that’s going to have an impact as well but I think it’s going to be 12 to 18 months before its appropriate to see any process driven changes that the result of SFS and I think you can expect steady improvement from there.
And I think everyone needs to understand that when you’re implementing $350 million of Synergies in a $9 billion company while it may not sound like much on a percentage basis its really all consuming and hence we’re putting off the revenue synergy deep dive kind of planning process a couple of months and SFS may take a little bit longer to implement their cross to platform because we can’t do everything at once.
So we’re trying to sequence these things in a rational and orderly manner.
But there is that huge opportunity out there and I think also the fact that there are fewer skewers in the power tool business than in the hand tool business will help us the fact that we got the experience the joint reference will help us expedite.
But it’s going to be a very large undertaking and it will take at least somewhere in the range of probably 18 to 24 maybe 36 months to get it done to that level.
And the last thing I would just comment on the revenue synergies a little bit.
I had the opportunity to spend about four weeks visiting far flung regions of the world and meeting the Black &amp; Decker folks and learning about their business in great detail around the world and starting to kind of frame out what the revenue synergy areas might.
And I think there’s five really significant ones and some more that I don’t know about yet that will kind of be surfaced during our betting process over the next few months.
But they have a very strong organization in Latin America.
They have production in Brazil which is expandable they have a distribution center down there which we don’t have and for those of you that are familiar with Brazil those are both enormously important assets in order to be successful in Brazil which is really on fire from a market growth perspective.
So we will quickly as quickly as possible take advantage of that opportunity to gain market share with the legacy Stanley business down in Latin America.
The business leader down there is terrific.
Likewise in the Middle East and Dubai which covers the entire Middle East and Africa region for Legacy Black &amp; Decker and now Stanley Black &amp; Decker.
Very strong organizations in the Middle East as well and a good infrastructure significantly bigger and better than ours in the Middle East we will leverage that as quickly as we can and in Asia I think we find that both companies have fledgling operations there.
When we put them together I think we have sufficient scale to have a meaningful growth initiative in Asia and really leverage off each other and our distribution channel access and our talent over there we were fortunate enough to retain both leaders from Stanley Legacy and Black &amp; Decker legacy Asia and we have them now kind of divided up that territory within both of their regions so they both are now we have twice the senior talent working in Asia and the emerging markets and then closer to home I think well really that staff the channel is something that Stanley has coveted for a long time and aspire to do better in and the Bostich hand tool launch is just an example of something that’s really targeted at the staff channel but when you look at the Black &amp; Decker relationships and the staff channel there are stronger then and their history is more successful in that channel than ours and so we hope to leverage that and then lastly in the industrial channels around the globe as many of you know Stanley has transformed its market approach in those channels to really drive a global platform approach across the regions and Black &amp; Decker well it has this entity called industrial power tools its really far more construction oriented than some industrial but Stanley has much better channel access into the industrial and automotive repair channels across the world and we expect to leverage that as a revenue synergy as well.
So I hope that gives you a little color into some of the potential areas that could be very meaningful on a go forward basis.
Extremely helpful thank you.
Good morning guys.
Hi the first question I was hoping I believe you touched on the home center trends within the Hand Tool business but I was hoping you could maybe talk about what you're seeing from point of sale and new orders particularly as you exited the quarter across all the businesses there including the legacy BDK that touches that end channel? And then I had a follow-up question as well.
I’ve said everything that we intend to say up about order and POS at this stage it is as you know it’s a very short cycle business we’ve only had granularity at Black &amp; Decker power tools orders of POS for 3 weeks and as they say at this stage restocking has been modestly encouraging but far less than in the industrial channels and its too early to have a view on POS because inventories are only being gradually restored and we have only 3 weeks of data to go on.
Okay fair enough.
The second question I believe in the press release you guided towards $600 million of free cash flow for the year.
And I was wondering if you could maybe give us some puts and takes as far as what some of the bigger drivers there are and how we might think about that relative to I believe the $1billion or so that the combined entity generated last year? We’ll talk there’s a lot of one times in the billion Dennis and obviously the targets of billion plus on an ongoing basis which is a year 3 but we’ve had a lot of discussion on that Don’s going to give you some of the highlights of where we came out.
Dennis the $600 million as I mentioned was mentioned in the press release really has a very modest impact on our working capital included and so an assets what it is if you take the net income or EPS projections that we have you add back the depreciation and amortization and subtract out CapEx you pretty much get to that $600 million number and our CapEx tends to be anywhere between two and half percent of our revenue.
So even though the kind of boundary you will get to that number.
The opportunity for us going forward is clearly continue top line growth and we are seeing the signs of that 2010 if these trends continue then we will have more growth in 11 and 12 but you know working capital is also a significant opportunity for us.
And getting to the billion required a modest improvement in the Black &amp; Decker working capital turns of about two turns.
And that was really part of that projection that provided back in November.
The other thing to keep in mind is that the performance last year of both companies had had on a combined basis about $450 million of working capital benefit in it and we don’t expect that at this point in time and that will peak 2010 but as we move forward as Jim mentioned there is a big opportunity for $800 million of cash flow from working capital.
I just wanted to echo the comments thanking you guys for all the disclosure I know it probably required a lot of work.
So maybe first of all you mentioned a little bit how you're expecting a little bit about your price inflation expectation for the full year.
Is there any way you could provide some detail on pricing when you're expecting to take pricing? Is that something that happens in the back half of the year? I guess Nicole always we try to be as far ahead of the curve as possible in order to maximize recovery of commodity’s inflation.
Steel is as Don pointed out he he quantified exactly how much it will be how much we think it will be what’s built in to our projections.
But RMB is huge obviously with product both from our competitors and ourselves sourced from Asia 5% RMB inflation its $42 million on an annualized basis.
The simple thing to say is when we see that inflation coming it will take one to three months for it to hit our cost of goods.
We would be out trying to announce and implement pricing.
The second we see it coming if you assume a six month lag in some customers from the day we announced till the day we get it.
We have a three months gap to fill and that’s what Don’s trying to improve.
So simply said we try to be equal to or ahead of the curve we’ve done a good job over the last three or four years driven by the central pricing Center of Excellence and people from that organization being embedded within each of the business units.
And that’s were we’ll stay we’ll try to stay equal to or ahead of the curve and both commodities and RMB inflation are going to be very very big external factors or market driven factors to look at.
Importantly as it relates to the impact of RMB inflation we are not in this alone anyone whether its private label of the home centers or a foreign competition in CDIY they are going to be impacted as much or more as we are.
So while the numbers are big the forces in the marketplace will our presence that will suggest we won’t be alone in the need to achieve pricing to maintain margin.
Okay thanks John that's really helpful.
And then maybe if you could comment a little bit on how Power and CDIY core growth in 1Q compared to your internal plans? I guess I was a little surprised by the volume declines given the mid-to-high single-digit growth we've seen out of both Danaher and Cooper this quarter? Well let me start by saying that both Danaher and Cooper are far more industrial oriented than our CDIY business if you look at their before the JV’s their portfolios and when you combine it together it doesn’t change anything.
So you have to really if you want to get a Danaher Cooper Stanley Black &amp; Decker comparison or at least Stanley Legacy comparison.
You really have to kind of blend the CDIY and the industrial results and I think you saw the surge in our industrial business as well which was very comparable to what they experienced.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And lastly for me what sort of seasonal pick up do you guys expect for security in the second quarter?  It’s always the case that versus two in a obviously not versus 2Q 09 but 1Q to 2Q we get historically a good seasonal pick up in our mechanical security business.
I think Black &amp; Decker hardware and home improvement business will be a little bit less seasonal than Stanleys.
Specifically ours is driven hard as you know by two things in Legacy Stanley.
The tremendous penetration we have on university campuses and mechanical locking and most of that takes place in June and July which spills into the third quarter where we get on to the campuses to change a lot of locks.
That will be less Black &amp; Decker’s mechanical security business will not be tremendously impacted by that.
The second point being our access technologies business which we love tends to have a far greater performance in the second and third quarters than first and fourth and its all weather related.
We have never had any slide availability issues when we go to install or in some cases service doors or retro fit doors.
That goes away.
So what you’ve seen on the Stanley side historically we would expect again whilst we expect very little of it on the Black &amp; Decker side.
Their mechanical security business is less university and large retail oriented.
So essentially on our combined basis that the percentage increase which we often attribute to 100 to 200 basis is cut in half just due to the business twice the size.
Thanks very much.
You talked a lot about this in terms of the CDIY and the encouraging signs in terms of inventory circumstance happening much more on the Industrial side.
In this guidance of 4% to 5% revenue growth for the remaining three quarters of the year is there any customer restocking built into that or are you assuming that it takes place later on?   Well there is obviously is a little bit of customer restocking built into that.
And clearly we experience a little bit of that in the first quarter.
And then what we were to expect that continue in the second quarter and third quarter but I would say that a vast majority of that is really end market pick up.
Thanks very much.
And I guess the other question just wondering about the and think about the Power Tools.
You talk about product launches helping to regain some market share.
Do you think that as you deal with the Big-box retailers is your thought at this point that having the right products and those interests will help to you regain the market share or is there anything different you're looking at with the relationship with them?  Black &amp; Decker had a core franchise to protect in nickel cadmium.
So on the one hand was slow to convert to the emerging technology of lithium-ion one of the reasons being the franchise that it had to protect.
The products are available the pipe line is full.
These are the this is the most powerful and sought after brand in the professional channel that’s the DeWALT brand of course.
And we believe not due to the effect that we’re a larger company we due to the fact that that we’re a larger company we do due to the fact that Legacy of Stanley brands and DeWALT brands are the most sought after brands in the industry and we have every hope and expectation to gain share as a result of that as we’re able to put these two companies together and introduce our new products.
You’ll recall from following Stanley historically new product launches take place in March and October and we start to see the benefits of that in the second obviously and fourth quarters.
Every year about $100 million in revenue on the Legacy Stanley CDIY side has been generated from new products we see no reasons why that shouldn’t continue going forward.
And these DeWALT folks and also Black &amp; Decker power tool folks are very proud and capable people and they didn’t take it very kindly when they missed this window which has cost them some market share points over a year and a half and I can tell you that the passion they have for what they do is going to be manifested in some outstanding new products and I think they’re going to regain their market share both through product and also they had reduced a lot of their brand support in taking costs out and a lot of that brand support its not a cost synergy per say and its not a revenue synergy per say we are able to leverage a lot of our existing brand support assets such as our MLB programs we will see with DeWALT in four parts probably already have and also in our premier football over in Europe you’ll see DeWALT at the games now and so around the world in our Nascar you’ll see the same thing.
So we really are beefing up the brand support at the same time the products are going at a nice I expect that will help the market share as well.
I guess first question if we could just go back to the revenue synergies and you laid out those five as sort of the targets.
I'm wondering if those are more are they plug and play sort of initiatives.
In other words what sort of capital costs should we think about as you try to enter some of these or take advantage of some of these strategic opportunities?  Pete there’s good news and bad news there.
The good news is there’s essentially no capital required to do what Jim talked about and I think he articulated extraordinarily well and that’s the positive.
The negative is a lot of experience sitting around this table and throughout our combined entities say as logical as it is and as easy as it sounds it takes two to three times as long to realize those synergies as Mike’s seen reasonable at first blush.
A lot of cross training on product a lot of the fact that folks know and understand their legacy customers and product lines that they need to be properly incented to go achieve these synergies without losing focus on the core business and as if you will qualitative or subjective as that all sounds Jim and I and all the folks at Black &amp; Decker particularly in the regions have all had the same experience.
It takes longer because it is not as easy as it sounds.
We will get there with very little capital but its all about protecting the core while we layer this on and get out of them as soon as we can.
We’ll have a better flavor for what those are and how quickly we might achieve them as we live together for 3 to 6 months as opposed to 3 to 6 weeks.
So stay tuned and at some point in time particularly when we get the entire investment community together for an Analyst Day who knows a year from now and we put out some new three year projections we will have a lot more granularity on that for you.
But no capital longer time than you might be tempted to put in your model.
No totally understand.
Thanks for that color.
If we could just get back to the I guess the cash flow commentary where I'm a little bit I see some optimism guess you're doing $600 million in free cash flow this year.
And Jim you talked about an opportunity of freeing up $800 million but you also laid out a target of $1 billion pro-forma.
Can you you sort of set the bars for us when you're talking about the cost savings synergies and how to think about that.
Can you also give us some of the puts and takes and why we shouldn't be more optimistic than your $1 billion target on the free cash flow front? Peter this is Don.
I think it’s really going to depend on what happens over the next few years and clearly there is significant cost synergies.
Jim laid out some of the working capital opportunities that we have as a company.
But also we have to keep in mind that those working capital opportunities will take some time to achieve.
We feel comfortable that we can achieve a lot of them but the actual to ability to achieve them in a 24 month period is much different than ultimately achieving them so those are all factors that need to be considered as well as the volume pick up that we might experience as a company for the next two to three years little bit of question mark.
So there is different way that you can model it to be more optimistic clearly that we get you to something greater than a billion.
But at this point in time we still think that number makes a lot of sense and as time evolves as we go forward we will continue to update as we see appropriate.
Thanks everyone for joining in today.
Again if you have questions feel free to reach out to me after the call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!