Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Tesoro Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Carissa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today's call Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Carissa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at www.tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning and we appreciate everyone taking the time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the first quarter we ran at significant higher refinery utilization rates when compared to both the first and fourth quarters of last year allowing us to more fully capture strong crack spreads and advantaged crude oil discounts.
We also made good progress on our improvement initiatives to drive EBITDA growth.
The combined result is reflected in our very strong earnings and positive cash flow for the first quarter.
We also announced during the quarter our plans to expand crude oil throughput capacity at our North Dakota refinery by about 17%.
This $35 million project which we expect to complete in the second quarter next year will allow us to capture more of our advantage crude position in the region.
We also successfully executed the initial public offering of Tesoro Logistics LP.
The launch of this MLP [master limited partnership] is an important step in the execution of our logistics growth strategy.
And yesterday as you probably saw we redeemed the full $150 million outstanding amount of our junior subordinated notes.
With earnings strength and debt reduction we expect to reduce total debt to total capitalization significantly this year driving towards our goal of around 30%.
We have made good progress in driving operational efficiency and effectiveness delivering earnings strength and improvement exercising financial discipline through debt reduction and positioning ourselves for strategic growth through the MLP.
These results are all evidence of our successful efforts to realize our strategic priorities and drive shareholder value.
Turning to the quarter industry crack spreads were up year-over-year and our refining gross margins were up even more.
The first quarter average Tesoro Index gained over $5 per barrel doubling from the same quarter last year.
This improvement was driven primarily by diesel crack spreads which were up nearly 140% over last year.
Gasoline crack spreads were also up gaining 35% over last year.
Global demand growth especially for distillates remains strong.
U.S.
refining margins generally have benefited from the growth in Asian demand and increased levels of U.S.
exports to Europe and South America.
During the quarter we also saw marginal improvements in U.S.
demand.
Capture rates were up materially in the quarter driven by significantly advantaged crude costs relative to benchmark crude prices and a solid operating performance during the quarter.
On the West Coast we continue to capture wider discounts for foreign heavy crude oil relative to domestic alternatives.
In the Mid-Continent supply length of domestic inland crude oil increased the discounts for these grades relative to waterborne benchmarks such as Brent.
For the quarter our realized gross margin was $14.33 per barrel on a Tesoro Index that averaged $10.54 per barrel.
Throughput rates during the quarter averaged 561 000 barrels per day or more than 84% of total crude oil capacity.
This is up from 505 000 barrels per day or 76% for the fourth quarter last year.
The improvement reflects less unplanned downtime minimal turnaround activity and the benefits of Anacortes being back online for a full quarter.
Manufacturing cost in the first quarter averaged $5.22 per barrel a decrease of over $0.50 per barrel from the 2010 fourth quarter excluding the benefit of $12 million in property damage insurance recoveries accrued last quarter.
Retail marketing margins were down during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a rising crude price environment where Street prices tend to lag rapid increases in wholesale spot prices.
With significantly higher pump prices we did see a slight reduction in same-store sales.
Year-over-year for the quarter they were down about 1%.
However our total retail fuel sales volumes increased 12% year-over-year as we completed the previously announced addition of some 300 Shell branded outlets.
As we mentioned in the earnings release our pretax corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $37 million before $3 million in corporate depreciation and $46 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense that's primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $42 million.
Turnaround spending was $9 million.
We continue to plan for 2011 capital spending of $380 million including our regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We continue to expect about $160 million in turnaround spending for 2011 also.
As we look forward we remain cautiously optimistic about market conditions.
From a crack spread perspective the first quarter exceeded our expectations and we are pleased with the market conditions so far in the second quarter.
Additionally the steady decline in U.S.
light product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to margins.
Putting the market aside we are capturing opportunities to drive significant shareholder value from our existing asset base.
We have established strategic priorities that are focused on driving free cash flow strengthening the position of the company and increasing shareholder value.
As we progress through 2011 we remain committed to focus on driving operational efficiency and effectiveness through increased reliability and improving process safety realizing further system improvements focusing on cost leadership and investing to drive fundamental improvement in the business.
In all we've targeted over $225 million in EBITDA growth from these efforts in 2011.
Combine that with our increased runs and strong margin capture the first quarter and Anacortes being back online for a full year and we should be able to deliver significant EBITDA growth in 2011 versus last year.
Before I turn the call over to Scott let me comment on the recent IPO [initial public offering] of Tesoro Logistics.
I am pleased with the successful launch of Tesoro Logistics which speaks highly of the quality and strategic value of these assets.
The creation of Tesoro Logistics as we said is a key element of our value-driven growth strategy and puts us in a strong position to grow our Logistics business.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for more a detailed discussion of our quarterly results and also to provide guidance for the second quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night first quarter net income was $107 million or $0.74 per diluted share.
That compares to an adjusted net loss in the first quarter last year of $136 million or $0.97 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax expenses of $12 million related to an impairment charge at our Los Angeles refinery and $7 million related to the 2010 federal healthcare law.
Our cash G&amp;A expenses before non-cash charges related stock based compensation expense are coming down as we expected and are in line with guidance for the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $724 million.
This is before the $330 million in total net proceeds from the recent IPO of Tesoro Logistics.
We ended the quarter undrawn on the corporate revolver with nearly $1 billion of additional revolving credit capacity.
During the quarter we amended and extended the corporate revolving credit facility extending the term of the facility to 2016 improving some of the credit terms and lowering the letter of credit and drawn pricing by 50 basis points.
We ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of 37%.
This is before the benefit from the early redemption of the $150 million junior subordinated notes which we completed yesterday.
The increase in cash for the quarter was $76 million and reflects EBITDA of $323 million less working capital and other uses of $127 million Tesoro Panama revolver repayments of $70 million and capital and turnaround spending of $51 million.
The use of cash from working capital in the quarter reflects carrying a higher level of crude oil inventory in our system.
A portion of this is temporary and we expect to see the positive cash flow impact from inventory reductions in the coming months.
Turning to our outlook for the second quarter of this year.
The second quarter typically sees seasonal increases in PADD V demand for gasoline and distillates compared to the first quarter.
Quarter-over-quarter increases of greater than 4% are typical for gasoline and jet and increases over 7% are typical for diesel.
However high crude oil prices and resulting high product prices are a real challenge to demand growth.
Nonetheless the West Coast 3/2/1 crack spread averaged nearly $20 per barrel in April up more than 6% per barrel relative to last year.
On the crude side we continue to see the pricing dislocation for WTI crude oil.
Due to logistical constraints in the U.S.
mid-continent inventories have reached record highs and are putting downward price pressure on this crude.
Other crudes that are tied to the same logistical areas such as Canadian Upper Plains and Rocky Mountain crudes are similarly affected.
We expect to continue to recognize an advantaged crude cost for a portion of our refining system in the second quarter.
I'll close with guidance for second quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands per barrels per day 160 000 to 170 000 in the Pacific Northwest; 65 000 to 75 000 in the Mid-Pacific; 110 000 to 120 000 in the Mid-Continent; and 240 000 to 250 000 barrels per day in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the second quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.75 in the Pacific Northwest $3.35 in the Mid-Pacific $3.50 in the Mid-Continent and $7.35 in the California region.
You'll notice that our guidance for manufacturing cost per barrel in the California region are up over actual results in the first quarter of this year.
The increase coming from our Golden Eagle refinery reflects primarily 2 one-time items: First is additional expense incurred to optimize the planning and execution of planned turnaround activities at the refinery.
By deferring planned turnaround work from the first to the second quarter of this year we were able to run more barrels and capture the stronger margin environment we saw in the first quarter.
Second is additional maintenance spending on mechanical integrity to further improve reliability.
So while expenses are up temporarily in the second quarter we expect overall profitability at the refinery to be improved by these changes.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $95 million.
Additional second quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense including depreciation of $36 million and interest expense before interest income of $50 million.
The higher than usual interest expense is due in part to an estimated $14 million non-cash expense related to the recent redemption of the junior subordinated notes.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
In closing here we are pleased with the excellent first quarter results and our delivery of higher utilization rates and strong earning and positive cash flow.
For the second quarter we expect to achieve higher throughput rates realizing crude capacity utilization of about 90%.
As I said earlier we are very focused on our strategic priorities which we expect will generate additional free cash flow strengthen the competitive position of the company and increase shareholder value.
We look forward to sharing progress updates as we get further into the year specifically around some of the strategic priorities that we set out at our analyst call.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
There's been a fair amount of discussion about the Midwest WTI differentials.
But I was wondering if you could talk about the West Coast feedstock dynamics.
What's happening with the domestic crudes and how you're benefiting from importing foreign crudes? Yes the differentials Jeff in the first quarter like we said in our release were favorable for the heavy crude oil and that is the pricing effect of that [ph].
So the pricing for the crudes on the West Coast continued to be favorable both for the imports coming out of South America that we bring in as well as the heavy crudes in California.
Could you talk about the impact of the Japanese outages on the West Coast? Did you see any influence there either lower imports or increased exports? Our view on what happened in Japan and the consequences on the West Coast is that we see the export level activity out of the West Coast has been pretty consistent with what we saw last year the same levels of both gasoline and distillate imports which we participate in are there.
We saw higher exports coming out of the Gulf Coast that would absorb some of the additional demand there.
And we didn't see any exports going into Japan and maybe a little bit less pressure from any type of Asian imports into the West Coast from Korea that would normally be there.
So we did not see a significant impact.
Probably the biggest impact that we experienced was really around the pricing for crude oil sweet crudes and that impacted us at our Hawaii refinery.
And your next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Just a very simple one first what went on in Hawaii in Q1? Obviously it's going to resolve itself in Q2.
A lot of it looked like it was OpEx.
But could you just talk us through that? Yes there -- basically 2 things happened in Hawaii in the first quarter.
The first thing was that the way our pricing works in Hawaii with the way we buy crude and then price some of our contracts there's a lag effect there.
So we get hurt in a rising crude environment because of the lag.
That's one thing.
And that probably accounted for some portion of it.
The second thing is is that we did maintenance work on our cogeneration facility at the Hawaii refinery and as a result of that put us in the market to buy both electricity and steam during the quarter which as you said Ed was the result of a higher operating cost for the second quarter.
So those 2 things were the main impact that impacted us in Hawaii which did not have a good quarter.
All right.
Okay.
And then a more general question.
Obviously debt reducing towards your sort of target and probably falling -- well hopefully falling further in 2012 2013.
But you've still got opportunities to invest in the assets to drive some further EBITDA growth into next year.
Can you talk about your latest thoughts another sort of 4 months in regards to sort of returning some extra cash to shareholders or investing in the core business? Yes but I think that's a good question.
At our outlook I think we said that we have a pretty strong cash position right now.
And as we laid out last year as I think everyone recalls we had targeted about -- spending about $110 million in 2011 on what we call small capital high return projects that fundamentally improve the performance of our assets but a lot of that directed at our refining business.
So we're on target to continue to do that.
As we've done further work around all of our assets we've identified potential opportunities to probably go out and increase some of our capital spending on some pretty attractive projects.
For example we announced a month or so ago the expansion of crude capacity at Mandan for $35 million and we see a few other projects like that that as we continue to work the assets and that that are really attractive and that aren't dependent upon refining margins because we really want to be able to get sustainability in the capital we spend there.
So right now with the free cash flow that we're generating our intentions are twofold.
One is to continue to pay down some of the debt until we get to a targeted level like we've said of around 30% total debt to total cap.
And secondly to be disciplined about capital projects that can really go in and strengthen our asset base and spend that money doing that.
And we have a number of those things working that we'll talk about as we go through the year.
And then so a follow on might be that if you get to pay down debt faster and you spend the money on capital projects that excess cash you'd consider returning to shareholders? We'll look at -- at this point in time we'll look and see how that all prevails.
I mean we're -- as we look at our forecasts for the margin outlook in that we haven’t tended to be maybe bullish as some people on margins and so we've been a little bit cautious and focused on what we do in that.
So we'll look further as we get through the year and determine what we do if we get into a position where we have significantly excess cash.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Merrill Lynch.
Greg I'm going to try a couple if I may.
Jumping back to the Hawaii refinery I'm just wondering if you can give us an update on the fuel oil pricing contract.
Obviously it's been going on now for quite a while.
And just overall in the context of Hawaii as a strategic asset for Tesoro could you maybe just give us a broad discussion around those 2 issues please? Yes.
I think no one is more frustrated with the Hawaii fuel oil contract than I am.
I can tell you that much.
We have spent considerable amounts of time both in negotiations as we shared with everyone with our customers to basically get a fair market price for the fuel oil that we supply to the 2 customers and we did that a long time ago.
We went in through the process with the Public Utilities Commission which -- and advanced that through and got support from the consumer advocate in Hawaii.
Then we got into the elections in Hawaii and changes in the Public Utility Commission both in leadership and membership as the new governor came into Hawaii.
And we've had meetings with the governor himself as well as continuing discussions.
And we've been assured that we will get some answer almost any day now.
But quite frankly it's been a slow painful process.
During the second quarter because of what's happened in Japan and pricing and that the impact of the old contract has -- we didn't suffer a material impact as the way the fuel oil is priced to the utilities during the second quarter but we still need to get resolution of that.
So we are very hopeful that not only will we get resolution shortly.
And then secondly that we'll get -- have it go back in time to the time that we reached agreement commercial agreement with the 2 utilities and that's still what we're striving to do.
The second part of your question Doug around Hawaii is Hawaii we are looking very very carefully at Hawaii and how it -- will perform with the changes you see going on particularly in Asia with the way crude is pricing and the high demand for crude oil in Asia and that in Hawaii.
It's a tough asset to get it to perform where we need it to.
So we need to look very seriously at how -- what things we can do.
We laid out some things last year at our analyst presentation that show improvements.
One was the contract that you mentioned.
The other is some things that we can do.
They both contributed about 1/2 to the improvement efforts there.
But it doesn't have a lot of upside.
Hawaii doesn't have a lot of upside.
We need to get it to where we can drive those improvements in the business and then see how it fits in with what we're trying to do because it doesn't -- it just doesn't have the upside that some of our other assets do.
Got it.
The only other one I have is I think the WTI brand or LLS situation is fairly well understood.
But the West Coast some of your San Joaquin Valley crudes are clearly trading at substantial discounts to ANS which is your benchmark.
Can you just talk a little about what you see as the underlying sustainability of those kind of differentials? Because I think perhaps the advantage that you have on the West Coast is maybe not fully understood at this point.
So a little bit of discussion around how sustainable you think that is and I'll leave it there.
Yes I think Doug we I mean we see pretty good support for the differentials where they're trading around $8 a barrel right now.
So I think it's like everywhere else particularly with what's happening in the crude dynamics on the inland crudes in that we think it's reasonably sustainable going into the foreseeable future here.
And the mechanics behind it? Well obviously there's a glut around Cushing but there's no glut around Alaska.
So what do you see as the underlying cause? Now just the ability to bring the other foreign crudes into the market in California that are attractively priced for not only ourselves but other people that put the support for the differential.
It's a competition of crudes.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow of Macquarie.
Greg I want to go back to the analyst day presentation back in December and you identified integrating refining and marketing systems as a weakness in each of your regions.
I was wondering can give us an update on any initiatives that you've taken to address this? Yes we've actually been pretty active addressing that in the markets the last little bit here.
So we are doing 2 or 3 things.
One we've actually which we'll probably -- I don't have the numbers with me but we've actually been pretty successful in the last little bit of contractually extending both some existing customers with higher volumes for longer periods of time as well as some new customers with volumes which adds about 30 000 barrels a day in total with 20 000 barrels a day of it being new volumes which are unlike 3-year contract terms.
So that's one part of what we've been able to do in the first part of this year which will support our integration as you talked about there.
The second thing is we are out looking for opportunities to drive further integration and considering a bunch of different alternatives that are smaller things but in total they really support some of the areas where we're weak like the Pacific Northwest.
We need to grow our integration around Mandan with the expansion of the crude and that.
So we're seeing pretty good success in the market to capture additional marketing support which will allow us to drive higher integration.
And Greg in the PNW I think you mentioned increasing exports to the Pacific Rim.
Has there been progress on this to date? We are actively looking at things Chi that we are -- have been for the last few months.
So we're in a good place of going about that.
But I can't talk about those commercial discussions.
But we are -- the idea that we have there we are actively pursuing that.
Okay.
Have you been exporting ratably out of the West Coast to foreign markets South America and/or Asia? We have contracts in place that allow us to export out of the West Coast both gasoline and distillate yes.
Okay.
Great and any update on utilizing the Panama assets further here? Actually in the first quarter we actually had a reasonably good quarter with -- using the Panama assets.
As you recall we basically said the value of those assets are really fourfold.
One was to take advantage of transportation logistics where we could move crude across the Panama Canal either for ourselves or some of other commercial customers.
The second thing is there were some opportunities during the quarter that allow us to play the contango in the crude market which provided opportunities.
We've also been able to look at some distressed cargoes that allow us to position them for our systems.
So the activity level around Panama in the first quarter had actually worked out pretty well for us.
And we continue to actively work that not only for our own system but in some commercial relationships that we're trying to develop.
So it got off to a good start actually.
Okay.
And is that an asset that you can contribute into the -- to Tesoro Logistics at some point down the road? Chi our involvement with Panama is really just a contract for both capacity on the pipeline as well as storage.
That's not something that we would ever contribute into the MLP.
We have no intention to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler of CRT Capital Group.
A couple of questions.
First a follow-up in regards to potentially looking at returning cash to shareholders.
Certainly there are 2 options there a dividend or repurchasing stock.
Do you have currently existing anything outstanding an outstanding share repurchase program or would that be something that the board would have to authorize? Ann we do not have anything from the share repurchase program.
We do not have anything at all there.
I think just to be clear on our cash position we see the opportunity to pay down some debt and also a fair number of good opportunities that create a lot of value for the company that we're in early stages of evaluating but we'll share those as we go through the year.
So that's really where we stand from with our free cash flow right now.
No I perfectly understand that.
I just wanted to just get details on that one little area.
But no I clearly recognize that debt reduction and spending on your businesses is the key priority at the moment.
The other question that I had in regards to the additional volumes the 30 000 barrels a day volumes are those located in any one particular market? They're actually spread across most of our markets in both -- they're in California around our Salt Lake City refinery and a little bit around the Pacific Northwest.
So it's actually pretty good coverage.
We're actually very pleased with the progress we made there.
Because it's also both gasoline and diesel.
So it's a very good step in the first quarter.
Great.
Wonderful.
And then my last question you certainly noted that you did have a reduction in your costs by about $0.50 a barrel.
What exactly was that attributable to and is it sustainable? I mean it's attributable to 2 things.
One is higher run rate because it's on a per unit basis.
So to be clear we ran at higher run rate.
And as you know we had targeted some cost reductions for calendar year 2011 that we're continuing to work on.
So it's just been discipline around our operating cost spending.
We're very focused on continuing to drive improvements in our mechanical integrity of our assets but at the same time be very disciplined in our spending so those are the 2 things.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin of Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> I also want to circle back to the analyst day in December.
You guys mentioned yield enhancements were an important part of the improvement program.
It seems like that of all these initiatives could really move the needle especially in California.
But they're also -- they'd also be quite expensive as capital projects.
And I was just looking for an update there to see what direction you're going in from that standpoint? And sort of on a related note what does bottom of the barrel recovery look like in this kind of crude market up here? Is there a different way we should look at capture rates as far as some residuals in asphalt and things like that go? Let me turn the question over and let Dan answer your question.
Yes sure.
Regarding yields improvements you're right.
The structural improvements needed at the refineries to accomplish significant yield change do require capital.
The good news there is we've got several capital projects in the hopper that we're reviewing and do expect to make some significant improvement there.
The other way that we can capture yield improvement is by optimizing the way that we align our turnarounds and shutdowns of the units to eliminate the redundancy of loss throughput.
That allows us to run more third-party feedstock and convert it all into products.
And that's what you saw occur in the first quarter.
Regarding bottom of the barrel investment there are a few projects that we're looking at that aren't quite ready for discussion at this moment or at this time.
But they do take a look at grabbing more of the bottom of the barrel and turning it into gasoline and diesel largely on the West Coast.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And as far as pricing goes for that material now is there a wider loss or can you recover costs better than maybe some people could expect in this current crude market? Yes the things that we're looking at Sam the price differentials and that are supportive of what we're trying to do maybe by changing some of the types of crudes to produce less bottoms and get the upgrading of both gasoline and diesel like Dan talked about there.
So there's light-heavy spreads in that where they are supportive of what we're trying to do.
And your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
It's good to see Anacortes up for the full quarter and profitable.
Maybe to follow up on some of Greg's comments on other capital projects relating to Anacortes.
And maybe it's too early but as you think about better crude sourcing options or opportunities in conjunction with Tesoro Logistics do you see an opportunity to get Bakken crudes into Anacortes and if you could potentially to mention that potential opportunity the kind of scope scale cost maybe? Yes I mean there's no question Evan that we are looking -- we look at every opportunity to take some things where we can gain advantage in crude.
One of the things that we think is the strength of what we have is we talk a lot about our advantage position and so places where we can take either Bakken crude or black wax crude in Salt Lake which we've talked about trying to run more of that and also look at something like moving Bakken to the Pacific Northwest.
Those are definitely all the things that we are actually seriously seriously looking at.
We see some opportunities.
Well via rail would be the primary potential there right? I mean that -- yes to get to Anacortes the only way you could get there economically is by rail.
But I think we need to be clear.
I mean we're driven more by the opportunity to capture the refining value.
That's what we're really driven by.
So we're looking at all types of different crudes in that because -- to gain those advantages.
Sure now of course.
I mean on the other side and I know you touched on it a little bit earlier but I just didn't if you could -- you clearly had some early success Greg but could you give us an update on your program here for $300 million of kind of EBITDA operational improvements how's that trending 5 months in and did you see -- do you see some upside on the operations side in the kind of capital project side? I think what we see as you recall there were about 5 major initiatives that we were undertaking.
And at this point in time particularly through the first quarter we feel like we're on track to deliver everything that we said we have.
To me the encouraging thing is that both Dan and myself alluded here is that as we've got more into it and looked at things for different opportunities what we're seeing is some other opportunities to do enhancements to the assets that will add value that haven't been built into those plans.
We won't realize those in 2011 but it's encouraging some of the things that our people are identifying that are probably a little bit bigger than some of the small capital improvement projects but can be implemented and add a lot of value that like I said earlier aren’t driven by refining margins but maybe more by gaining crude advantages or other things.
So to me that's pretty positive.
And we'll progress those through the year and when it's appropriate share what we are looking at.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacques Rousseau of RBC.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to check on the guidance for the second quarter.
What jumped out at me was the big move up in the Pacific Northwest volumes.
I'm assuming that's mostly Anacortes.
And I'd just like to get your view if demand stays somewhat constant how should we see those volumes moving forward? Yes for the second quarter I mean you're right Anacortes is projected to have strong run rates there in the region.
There's some refinery downtime in that that's allowing us to capture -- other companies have some downtime that allows us to capture a favorable environment.
So we're running strong at Anacortes during the second quarter and we'll just -- it's actually worked well since we brought the refinery back up in that and we'll continue to monitor that.
We're really focused on being able to find homes for the products that we run there.
So that's a continuing focus of what we're trying to do there.
So it looks encouraging.
LLC</strong> So do you think the subsequent quarters will be at this level or as you said some of this is due to other downtime? Yes I don't know if it'll be as high as what we're doing in the second quarter we'll see as we get there.
But it will -- according to our plans and that it will be at a pretty reasonable level in the third and fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> Great.
One more question for you.
You mentioned that retail same-store sales were down I believe you said 1% in the first quarter.
That’s correct.
LLC</strong> And I just wanted to see how they were trending in April? Yes they're under pressure after the end of the first quarter.
So they're down a little bit more than that going into the second quarter with – as prices have gone up in that.
And your next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Greg question for you on Mandan.
The economics there look pretty attractive as far as $35 million for 10 000 barrels per day.
Is the constraint on the facility as far as constraint meaning going over and above that or is it really on the distribution through the shale network? Let me -- I'll let Dan answer that question Blake.
Yes Blake what we've done in the Mandan from the capital expansion is expand the crude end or the -- a crude unit at the front end of the unit all the way up to the limits of the secondary processing units and got a little creative on the back end there to make that happen.
Additional capacity at Mandan requires significant capital investment well beyond the crude unit.
So that's what makes this project so attractive and low cost is it's a small investment in just the front end of the processing.
Okay so it sounds like to go over and above it's not really something you're looking at at this time? That's correct.
Okay.
And then secondly with regard to the debt-to-cap I know you're at about 37% at the end of the quarter a few moving pieces with the MLP and then paying off the note due in '12 I'm just curious if you happen to have a current net debt-to-cap with the debt paid down and then the removal of some equity for the MLP? I'll let Scott respond to that question Blake.
Yes.
It's going to reduce our total debt to total cap by a couple percentage points given what we've just done in paying down the junior subs.
I don't have it on a net debt-to-cap basis in front of me.
But on a net debt-to-cap basis it's probably in the low 30% range at this point.
Okay.
So you're already working your way pretty close to the 30% or at least in that direction still? Yes the 30% is a total debt to total cap target.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng of Barclays.
I have a number of question maybe start out with some balance sheet items.
Can you tell me what is the market value of inventory in excess of the working capital in long-term debt? It's about $1.9 billion.
Okay.
Just in excess of both.
How about working capital? Working capital is about $661 million.
Okay.
The long-term debt component of the total debt? $1.82 billion.
$1.82 billion 1-0-8-2 right? No 1-8.
Just call it $1.8 billion Paul.
Okay.
All right.
And Scott on the second quarter guidance on the $14 million related to the early debt redemption are you guys going to treat it as a special item when you report it? Yes it'll be in our interest expense charge and I mean we can pull it out.
No but I mean it doesn't matter.
I just want to see what is the -- what you guys are going to do so that we do correspondingly in our estimates so are you going to include it as normal operation or are you going to...
No we'll treat it as a special item.
You're going to treat it as a special item? Okay.
Yes.
And from a reporting standpoint with Tesoro Logistics are you going to report it as a separate -- as a Tesoro Logistics and then pull out the corresponding revenue or operating profit from the Mid-Continent refining system? Or how exactly the reporting going to look like going forward? It will be consolidated.
There will be significant additional disclosure in the 10-Q around that in terms of the balance sheet impact minority interest those kinds of things.
But in terms of the actual reporting format you are not going to change from the current method? So in other words you're not going to have a separate line called Tesoro Logistics or a Logistics segment? Well for Tesoro Corp.
again it will be consolidated.
Of course Tesoro Logistics will have their own financial statements.
Right I fully understand.
My question is that in the Tesoro Inc.
are you going to when you report it now that you report refining retail in the segment earning will you be reporting refining and then retail and Logistic in that way? No.
You're not.
Okay.
And Greg I hear what you say about the use of cash and the CapEx.
And in addition to Mandan if we're looking at Salt Lake City is there any opportunity there to expand that? Or the crude capacity is already pretty match up with the conversion unit and so that to really expand it is going to be too costly? I will let Dan respond to your question here.
You're probably right on the additional crude capacity.
But we do have projects that allow us to run more black wax.
And we're actually looking at those projects right now.
They look relatively interesting.
At the moment we're not quite ready to say that they're a sure go.
Dan what kind of the magnitude that we may be talking about here? Is it running another 5 000 barrels per day 10 000 any kind of rough number that you can share? Sure.
The range we're that we're at right now is let's say about 10 000 barrels a day.
And the opportunities we're looking at could increase that in the range of let's say 50%.
Okay.
So it's another 5 000 barrels.
Okay.
And Dan or Greg that in addition to that project is there any other more meaningful cap expanding project that is currently on the table being evaluated? I'm sorry.
Can you just repeat the question Paul? No in addition to in Salt Lake talking about the increased use of the crude there is there any other maybe a little bit more substantial CapEx spending projects that is currently on the table being evaluated by the company? Across our system we have a few projects a handful of projects less than $100 million each that we're looking at at the refinery.
So there's probably 4 or 5 other projects which are not big projects but probably some from $50 million to some up to $100 million that are refineries that we're looking at which will as we go through and further work those they're in certain stages of engineering that impact the refineries both in California Salt Lake stuff in Mandan so across our system we're really looking at everything there Paul.
I think it's encouraging that the things that we're looking at are really driven to either provide additional crude advantage or other advantages.
But they're not really driven by -- they're not dependent upon the margin.
That's great.
Greg are you at the stage that you can share some of that with us now or would you rather wait? No but we will.
We will be and relatively soon in the next little bit here.
Some of the projects we'll come out and make those aware once we get the engineering done and the cost estimates to a point where we understand the economics.
So we're progressing well on those projects.
And Greg in terms of using cash of course I mean talking about returning to the shareholder but the other component is that in addition to the organic could be in the inorganic through acquisition.
Can you talk about your view how acquisition play in the overall strategy of the company over the next say 3 to 4 years and what kind of criteria that you will put before you would consider a particular acquisition? I think Paul we as part of all of our strategic work that we did last year is we have looked at the entire market place for opportunities that make sense.
And we see some possible opportunities.
The criteria that we are really driven by are projects that may fit in strategically with what we do.
So that means that they really stay in our market area where we can gain advantages through our system through either the crude supply that we can take advantage of or the distribution into the markets to really increase our presence in the markets we're in.
So we've been very clear to say that we don't look -- we're not looking at anything on the East Coast or Gulf Coast of the United States.
So you kind of draw the area that we target there.
So the criteria are that they have to be very strategic and fit in with our business model.
They have to be very value-accretive.
And we also like things that are more integrated where it's not just a refinery but where it is a total refining marketing and transportation assets.
And Greg what kind of debt-to-capital ratio that you will tolerate in the short term when you do an acquisition? We have to look at the individual opportunities and -- as we model them and see what they would be because there are different ways to do the things we're looking at Paul.
I don't think it's -- it's probably a little bit premature to comment on that specific question.
Okay.
That's fine.
And one final one Scott on the Tesoro Logistics is there any kind of information you can share with us in the first quarter? What is the -- on a pro forma basis what is the operating profit or revenue from that business? No Paul I can't really comment beyond what's in the prospectus on that.
We will be filing first quarter 10-Q here later in the month.
And in the 10-Q when you file it are you going to have additional information on the Tesoro Logistics? Yes I mean there will be a separate 10-Q filed for Tesoro Logistics later this month.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
On the disposal side I was wondering how aggressive the interest has been in buying some of your assets and even whether you've had interest in an overall company takeover from others? No we're not aware of any interest.
And what about I guess the individual assets you must have some pretty aggressive interest? We have had no inquiries.
Oh really? Okay.
What was the assumption for the discounts? I mean I guess it was a very easy decision to expand Mandan but I was wondering what your assumptions are.
You've talked a lot about how you're not relying on the market to help you out.
But I guess you just -- you have to make some sort of assumptions.
And what I'm really thinking is that with you expanding with you talking about rail with the producers talking about rail with the pipelines coming in how do you see those discounts developing going forward? What we see Paul specifically around the Bakken play is that one of the advantages we have in addition to having the refinery there is that we have the crude gathering and pipeline system so that being able to collect by the crude at the well head is a big advantage.
And that we see that over time if you look at the market for Mandan crude being the Gulf Coast United States we see about an $8 differential over time that would -- which reflects the transportation costs to get the crude to the Gulf Coast.
That's the kind of differential we see at the well head.
Yes that’s been my idea is that regardless of the short-term infrastructure issues the simple fact is the transportation distance cost advantage that you've got? Right.
No more complicated than that right and you think that's about $8? Around there yes.
Great.
On the demand side people have talked about weather; you mentioned some weakness in California.
Could you just do the usual runaround of how things are developing? And I just wondered because I think the weather has been a pretty dramatic impact here on some of the demand numbers we've been seeing particularly for gasoline? Yes.
I think not in our particular market areas the weather hasn't had an impact around our system from a demand standpoint.
So we have not been impacted by that.
So California like you mentioned Paul is not improving.
We haven't seen substantial weaknesses worse than that.
But with the unemployment rate staying above 12% now we haven't seen big changes in California except for now as prices started to come up we are seeing some of our retail sales go down a little bit but we were not impacted by weather.
Sounds like the price impact hasn't been that dramatic for you.
I mean it doesn't sound great but it hasn't been a disaster.
In the first quarter it definitely wasn’t.
It was around slightly less than 1% and then probably getting a little bit more impact in April and May.
But it hasn't been that painful yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Citarrella of Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of quick ones following up on the last one in demand.
Could you quantify what it's been in April maybe and where you see it heading in terms of demand? And then just to be able to give us a sense of your participation in the export markets during the quarter and maybe where commercial agreements could take you even if it's just a rough order of magnitude kind of estimate at this point? Yes Joe your first question on demand I mean so far it's probably been a little bit greater than 1% on our system.
I don't have that with me right now.
We've had pretty good growth in our marketing demand because of what we're trying to do total.
But on the same -- on a comparable basis year-over-year it's greater than 1%.
But I don't have that with me to know what the exact percent is.
It's a little bit higher than that.
And then the second our export activity is actually off the West Coast has stayed pretty constant.
We think the industry takes about 40 000 barrels a day of gasoline and about 50 000 barrels a day of diesel off of the West Coast and we have contracts that we participate in both products going south.
It's been pretty...
Any idea where of this will range commercial agreements could take you? Not into Mexico or South America not additional things unless you have some disruption that causes increased demand.
We don't think there's a lot of upside there.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Gilman of Benchmark.
LLC</strong> I had a couple things.
Greg it would appear just based on the capital outlook that there's a fairly significant second-half turnaround schedule and thus lower operating rates than certainly we have seen first quarter second quarter? Could you comment on that at all? I mean you're right Mark.
Our turnaround spending was relatively low in the first quarter partly because we were able to take and move Golden Eagle turnaround out of the first quarter and capture the higher margins.
And so we have higher turnaround spending in the -- just going out into the second half of the year.
But we also continue to look at that and try to optimize that turnaround spending.
So from our planning standpoint right now our forecasts are kind of what we shared with everyone.
But we are trying really trying to optimize that based upon how we can capture some advantages there.
Any guess as to what a second half operating rate might look like Greg? I haven't looked at it that closely getting out to the second half right now.
Like I told you the second quarter we see running at about 90% crude utilization.
But we'll have to just look and see what it looks like for the second half of the year.
I don't have that with me Mark.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Different subject Greg I'm a little bit puzzled by this issue of crude discounts and advantages on the West Coast.
I guess basically because in our tracking it looks to me as if some of the imported heavies the Napo for example and even Kern in terms of the San Joaquin Valley these crudes seemed to have disconnected from WTI and I guess I haven't really seen any significant changes in the relationship versus ANS.
Can you discuss this just a little bit or is my perception or characterization just completely off the mark? I'll let Louie respond to your question.
Mark it's Louie.
Those discounts specifically for the South Americans have widened out both year-over-year and sequentially.
I think it's at least $2 is kind of what we're seeing.
So I mean that's kind of identifying the South America portion.
Was there -- were you talking about another crude as well? LLC</strong> Well I thought that in Greg's remarks he mentioned San Joaquin as well? Definitely.
If you look at -- it did disconnect from WTI the San Joaquin Valleys did.
However as you compare those relative to ANS they have widened out.
I think we're looking at around $8 or so discount to ANS which is the appropriate benchmark on the West Coast.
So I mean that was -- and that's more attractive than it has been recently in past quarters.
So we did see an advantage.
LLC</strong> Did you make any changes in the California crude slate as a result of these pricing relationships? No we have not.
We've been running pretty comparable crudes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Final one for me relates to the Logistics partnership.
I guess I'm curious a little bit as to how you settled on 48% being the right amount to sell and what the longer-term intent Greg might be in terms of the retention of the remaining interest? The intent there Mark was to really go up and have that same with the general partner owning 2% and then our ownership and then the public interest is kind of almost a kind of a traditional MLP approach is what we took when we put that together there.
So there's nothing more complicated to it than that.
We felt like that was the right ownership percentages.
And our intent over time is to keep that relationship the same the ownership percentages the same.
We're very much focused -- our focus really is to be able to take our logistics assets and use that as a platform to grow the business to really support our refining and marketing.
LLC</strong> So there wouldn't be any intent to divest your interest down further? We don't have any intent to do that at this point in time.
LLC</strong> Was I incorrect in assuming that the time you announced you were going to proceed in this direction that you had contemplated a much lower public interest or is that just my failing memory? I don't know where you got that from.
We never talked about that at all actually.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Merrill Lynch.
I just wanted to circle back on the operating cost real quick.
I know you don't typically give a lot of guidance on that.
But given the Tesoro Logistics is obviously not out there can you just give us a little bit of color as to how the unit operating costs and maybe the total operating costs should trend from the second quarter or maybe a sequential comparison would be most useful? Doug if you're asking about the impact of the Logistics business on our expenses there shouldn't be any impact at all.
It shouldn't be material? What about overall generally in terms of your progress in reducing costs from a self-help standpoint? I'm thinking more about your breakeven level.
You're targeting a breakeven margin by 2013 of about $1.50 below where it is right now so maybe an update on that.
I'll leave it there.
We're still focused like I mentioned earlier on one of the other questions Doug on driving those areas that we've targeted to drive improvements we're still very focused on being able to do that.
We don't see any changes at this point in time to where our targets are.
Is there a progress report Greg into what you've achieved so far? What we're going to do Doug it's the first quarter it's early in the year.
But our full intent is as that we get into the next quarter and further on with those things 5 areas that we targeted we'll be very clear about the progress we're making on those areas.
We just wanted more history behind us.
I understand.
I know it's a big deal for your intel on management performance so I guess you're monitoring it pretty closely.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.