Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Tesoro Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janada and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Louie Rubiola Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Janada.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2011 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
With that I will turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking time to join us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment.
But I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
During the second quarter we again increased refinery utilization rates running total crude oil throughput to 578 000 barrels per day or about 87% of total capacity the highest level since the third quarter of 2008.
This allowed us to more fully capture strong crack spreads and advantage discounts on crude oil.
We made good progress on our improvement initiative to drive EBITDA growth with another quarter of gross margin improvement in excess of the market gains.
The combined results is reflected in our very good second quarter earnings of $1.65 per diluted share excluding special items the most profitable quarter for Tesoro since the third quarter of 2008.
This strong financial performance along with the successful initial public offering of Tesoro Logistics during the quarter allowed us to pay down $244 million of debt taking us to less than 31% of total debt to total capitalization moving closer to our goal of below 30%.
We also announced our plans to take Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes refinery allowing us to leverage our advantaged logistical position in North Dakota as well as provide a high-quality lower-cost feedstock supply to Anacortes.
Relative to ANS crude oil Bakken crude oil yields about 16% more clean products and less fuel oil.
During the second quarter the differential between those products was about $28 per barrel providing a more than $4 per barrel overall advantage.
Similarly today we are announcing a project to replace the vacuum distillation unit at our Los Angeles refinery which will allow us to improve clean product yields and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We expect to shift just under 1% of the refinery yield from petroleum coke production to clean products.
During the second quarter the differential between those products was about $100 per barrel.
These projects are good examples of how we are driving system improvements designed to achieve high returns short payback periods and deliver sustainable earnings.
Also during the quarter we received approval from the Public Utilities Commission in Hawaii regarding the revised fuel oil supply contracts with both Hawaiian Electric Company and Kalaeloa Partners.
Our priorities relative to our cash position are to: one further strengthen our balance sheet with additional debt reduction; two invest in business improvements designed to yield high-yield high-sustainable returns with short payback periods; and three maintain a prudent cash balance to continue to take advantage of commercial opportunities to drive a high capture rate.
Turning to the quarter industry crack spreads were up year-over-year and our refining gross margin were up even more.
The second quarter average Tesoro Index gained over $2 per barrel.
Feedstock cost advantage particularly in the mid-continent drove the benchmark index higher during the quarter.
West Coast benchmark crack spreads were generally flat both sequentially and year-over-year.
Incremental U.S.
exports of distillates and the continued global economic recovery provided support to distillate crack spreads during the quarter.
However rising retail street prices which peaked in early May tempered gasoline demand.
Capture rates were very strong in the quarter driven by significantly advantaged crude oil costs relative to benchmark grades for crude oil.
On the West Coast we continue to capture wider discounts for heavy crude oil both domestic and foreign grades particularly as compared to the West Coast benchmark ANS which got expensive during the quarter.
In the mid-continent high levels of domestic crude oil inventories increased the discounts for these grades relative to benchmark such as Light Louisiana Sweet.
For the quarter our realized gross margin was $16 per barrel excluding the gain from business interruption insurance proceeds on a Tesoro Index that averaged $12.18 per barrel.
This was achieved despite turnaround activity at our Golden Eagle refinery.
As I stated earlier throughput rates during the quarter averaged 578 000 barrels per day or 87% of total crude oil capacity.
This is up from 561 000 barrels per day or 84% for the first quarter this year.
This improvement marks another sequential increase in refinery utilization rates a key priority for the company.
Manufacturing costs in the second quarter averaged $5.23 per barrel excluding the benefit of $5 million in property damage insurance proceeds essentially flat from the first quarter.
We are making progress on lowering our operating cost and expect our per barrel number to continue to decline over time.
However we expect to see an increase in spending this year as a result of our improvement plans to strengthen asset integrity and maintain high reliability.
In December of last year we shared our plans around process safety management.
Most of our asset assessment is complete and we are implementing improvements as well as making changes based on the lessons learned from the April 2010 incident at our Anacortes refinery.
Retail marketing margins were up during the quarter both sequentially and year-over-year.
This is typical in a falling crude price environment.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up 14% year-over-year reflecting growth in the company's branded jobber and dealer segment.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were down 2% relative to last year as a result of rising retail street prices on gasoline demand.
More recently street prices in California have fallen more than $0.45 per gallon from the early May high and are now below the $4 per gallon level.
Accordingly we started to see an improvement in sales volume through our retail stations.
In July volumes were essentially flat with last year.
As we mentioned in our earnings release our pretax corporate and unallocated costs for the quarter were $34 million before $2 million in corporate depreciation and $18 million in noncash stock-based compensation credit primarily related to stock appreciation rights.
This number is down significantly from last year and it reflects the changes we made to our corporate overhead.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $63 million.
Turnaround spending was $46 million.
We still expect -- excuse me we still expect to spend about $380 million in capital in 2011 including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
This includes spending on our recently announced refinery projects where most of the spending will be in 2012.
We have adjusted our turnaround plan for 2011 and now expect to spend about $110 million which is down by approximately $50 million relative to our prior guidance.
As we look forward we remain reasonably positive about market conditions.
From a crack spread perspective the first half of the year exceeded our expectations.
Additionally seasonally typical U.S.
light product inventories combined with strong exports should continue to provide support to refining margins.
Putting the market aside we are capturing opportunities to drive significant value from our existing asset base.
We have established strategic priorities that are focused on driving free cash flow strengthening the competitive position of the company and increasing shareholder value.
In all we've targeted over $225 million in EBITDA growth from these efforts in 2011.
Combine that with our increased refinery runs strong margin capture and Anacortes being back online for a full year positions us to deliver significant EBITDA growth this year over 2010.
In fact if you look at our reported results for the first half of 2011 EBITDA is up nearly $700 million year-over-year.
We recognize that the market has improved.
Year-to-date the Tesoro Index has gained $3.65 per barrel relative to the first half of last year.
Using 2010 throughput rates that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $300 million attributable to the market improvement.
Similarly if we take the year-over-year increase in throughput rates systemwide of 98 000 barrels per day at the 2011 average Tesoro Index that would imply an incremental gross margin of about $200 million attributable to higher run rates.
The remaining $200 million in year-to-date incremental EBITDA is primarily attributable to the execution of our 2011 improvement initiative and the insurance proceeds from the Anacortes incident.
With that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for more detailed discussions of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the third quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night second quarter net income was $218 million or $1.52 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we're reporting an adjusted net income of $237 million or $1.65 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include: after-tax $23 million in business interruption and property damage insurance proceeds $30 million related to the write-off of expenses associated with the change in scope of a cogeneration project in our Los Angeles refinery and $12 million in onetime interest expense related to the repayment of $244 million in debt during the quarter.
That compares to an adjusted net income in the second quarter last year of $43 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
Special items last year included after-tax benefits of $26 million related to our postretirement benefit changes $7 million related to expense accruals in asset write-offs at our Anacortes refinery and $5 million related to a onetime state tax settlement.
Our cash unit expenses before noncash credits related to stock-based compensation are coming down as we expected.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $607 million and remained undrawn on the corporate revolver with over $1.1 billion of excess capacity.
As Greg mentioned we ended the quarter with total debt to total capitalization of less than 31% down 6 percentage points from the first quarter due in large part to the repayment of $244 million in debt.
We already announced the redemption of the $150 million junior subordinated notes due in 2012 but during the quarter we also retired through open market purchases $94 million of our 6.25% senior notes due in 2012.
The decrease in cash for the quarter was $117 million and reflects EBITDA of $519 million less working capital and other uses of $472 million less interest and tax payments of $124 million less capital and turnaround spending of $109 million and a cash flow benefit of $69 million from the IPO of Tesoro Logistics net of debt repayment and revolver borrowings during the quarter.
The use of cash from working capital in the quarter reflects mainly timing associated with carrying a higher level of crude oil and product inventory in our system.
Much of that use of cash has already been recovered here in July with cash at the end of the July at about $900 million.
During the second quarter we settled the property damage claim.
We have collected $17 million net of the deductible including $5 million in the second quarter.
We are still negotiating a final settlement regarding the business interruption claim.
We have collected $87 million net of the deductibles including $32 million in the second quarter.
Turning to our outlook for the third quarter high PADD finery utilization rates and lackluster gasoline demand has led to a recent build in light product inventories on the West Coast.
This has resulted in West Coast product prices trading in a discount to the U.S.
Gulf Coast and created an arbitrage trading opportunity for exports.
We have already began to see the market rebalance with the incremental light product exports off the West Coast in July and August.
In the mid-continent gasoline and diesel crack spreads remain strong and are up sequentially and year-over-year.
I'll close with guidance for the third quarter modeling purposes.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest 65 to 75 in the Mid-Pacific 110 to 120 in the mid-continent and 240 to 250 in the California region.
Manufacturing cost guidance for the third quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $3.80 in the Pacific Northwest $2.90 in the Mid-Pacific $3.60 in the mid-con and $6.85 in the California region.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $95 million.
Additional third quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense including depreciation of $34 million and interest expense before interest income of $36 million.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our very good second quarter results.
This marks another quarter where we delivered on our plans and significantly improved the business as part of our strategic priorities as we laid out in December of last year.
Looking to the third quarter we expect to increase throughput rates capture additional marketing opportunities to drive a higher level of refining and marketing integration and identify and implement high-return short-payback capital projects to strengthen our competitive position and generate additional free cash flow.
We look forward to sharing progress updates as we get further into the year.
With that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Ed Westlake with Crédit Suisse.
I just had 2 questions.
I guess the first one is around performance on CapEx.
Obviously historically there's been a higher CapEx burden out in the West Coast but you seem to be doing a good job of sort of improving the capital efficiency.
Where as you look out today do you see sort of the maintenance CapEx and turnaround CapEx settling out relative to perhaps prior guidance? The turnaround that we gave Ed in our system is the $110 million.
We've changed it around a little bit because we've tried to optimize our turnaround schedule between this year and next year and we're currently working on our plans for turnaround for 2012.
And those aren't completely developed yet so at this point in time our guidance for 2012 isn't unchanged from what we said last year when we talked about our plans for 2012 which was higher than 2011.
Maintenance CapEx across our whole system for regulatory and maintaining our asset integrity is unchanged from what we've talked about previously.
I mean we still plan to stay pretty close from a maintenance and CapEx -- maintenance and regulatory standpoint with our DD&amp;A kind of in that targeted range across our system.
And our big focus as we've said is to continue to find these income-producing projects that allow us to really get sustainable returns that are really short payback in that.
So that's where we stand.
Okay.
And then a follow-up just on margins.
I mean they have come up a little bit in the West Coast recently.
Is that just good utilization across the industry or are you seeing any signs of sort of California demand weakening as we start seeing some -- elsewhere in the U.S.? Yes I'll let Dan Romasko answer that question.
We think it is primarily due to refinery utilization being up.
When we actually look at our retail year-on-year same-store sales we're actually seeing a recovery relative to second quarter to the point that we're currently about 1% under on a year-over-year basis.
And that includes actually a growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
I was -- I wanted to follow up on the rail project economics and try to get a feel for what differential you need to justify that project and what the payout period is on the project.
Yes I think we made a couple of points during the call there.
One is that if you look at the yield advantage of Bakken to ANS crude the numbers we feel are pretty consistent over time with the -- less we said that the Bakken crude oil will produce.
So we get that yield advantage which we believe is pretty sustainable over time.
The second thing is if you look at the transportation cost we believe that over the longer term as the logistics in the mid-continent region work out and if the differential rating will settle around the rail cost to the Gulf Coast the numbers are as that we can actually move Bakken crude to Anacortes at a less transportation cost than you can to the Gulf Coast.
So we see a twofold advantage one is in transportation.
We have an advantage secondly in yield.
What is that transportation cost from Bakken to Anacortes? If you look at the tariff from the railroads in that there's about $1 advantage difference.
It's about -- it's a little bit less than $8 to go to Bakken and a little bit more than that to the Gulf Coast $1 more.
Great.
Yet it's a shorter distance it appears and the rates or lower going west than going south.
I think it has maybe to do with somewhat the interchange fees.
We just use the one railroad going west versus going 2 railroads going south in that also.
Is there any update or any change to the Mandan expansion? Mandan expansion is progressing extremely well and as we've said in the past second quarter of '12 we'll be operational.
And it looks very good from everything at this point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Several quick questions Greg.
In Salt Lake is there any kind of a similar opportunity for expansion as Mandan or that -- not really ? Paul we've -- I think we've said in the past amongst across our whole system we are very aggressive in looking at everything we can to make the business stronger.
In Salt Lake because of some advantaged crude supply with the black wax crude in that it does provide opportunities that we're currently evaluating.
We just haven't arrived at any conclusions yet.
But there are some possibilities there that we're in the process of evaluating.
Is it in the similar scale as on Mandan? Or that may have a bigger potential? It's probably a little bit too early to comment on that yet but there are some good opportunities there.
We just haven't completed all of our engineering work and analysis yet.
When you think that you may be able to have a more definitive view on that? Sometime during the second half of the year quite for sure.
So before the year end? Yes.
And in addition to the L.A.
vacuum tower do you -- also Greg mentioned you're looking at across the systems at any kind of fast payback projects.
Is there anything that you can share at this point that maybe some of those projects that what you have maybe looking at? I'm sorry in addition to the vacuum tower project at Los Angeles are there other...
You're talking about across the system that you're looking very hard at how to strengthen and doing some relatively fast payback projects.
I know that it's early and it may be premature but is there anything that you can share with us that what type of projects or that you may be looking at? It's just too early to go over those Paul so we can make sure we just finish our work.
But we do have a few opportunities that look very encouraging and we'll be able to share those during the second half of the year.
So we were advancing both our evaluation and some preliminary engineering work to get an idea about stuff.
But there are some good opportunities.
In Bakken when we're talking about 30 000 barrels per day how are we coming up with that number? Is it a limitation on -- given the Anacortes also running some Canadian oil and all that is that a limitation as a result that at most that you can very cost effectively to this space maybe up to 30 000 barrel per day? Or is that the limitation on the railroad capacity? No it's just when we look at the overall system of what we acquire and the logistics by using the unit trains and turning the unit trains with the amount of 30 000 barrels over that distance in a number of rail cars that we use and being able to handle them at the refinery the logistics kind of dictate the level of Bakken crude that we run at Anacortes.
So it's then logistics.
It's not so much about how much more that Anacortes whether that they can process more than 30 000 barrels per day of Bakken.
We could probably do more if we need -- if we get our logistics system worked out.
Those rail unit train projects they're actually pretty highly efficient in that.
So even moving 30 000 barrels a day is quite -- you have 120 rail cars going pretty constantly in that.
But the crude that we're -- that Bakken crude will effectively either displace foreign export foreign imports or it would replace ANS crude.
So no real differences from a crude slate standpoint.
And Greg and also the last 2 years if we look at at least based on our own benchmark indicator California and Pacific Northwest your margin capture rate has improved quite drastically.
And I think a lot of them may be related to your crude purchase how -- what type of crude you purchase and how you did it.
And I think that you've been dramatically reduced the use of the ANS and replacing it with other type of oil.
Can you try to help us to quantify that how much is the ANS you was -- let's say running in those 2 system before mid of 2009? And how much is that you've been running since then? I'll let Dan address that question for you.
Yes sure.
The -- if you take a look at those refineries as you're aware they're high-complexity coke refineries so the actual crude slate is certainly weighted to the discount-heavy crudes.
Our typical slate there is 70% heavy 20% light and the remainder is non-crude feedstocks like get gasols [ph] et cetera.
The actual make up of the heavy and the light slate is dependent on the market opportunity at the time that we repurchase the crude.
Subsequently we run very little to no ANS in those plants and I don't have at my fingertips what the volume was back in 2009 but certainly today and what we see in the ANS market going forward that we're going to continue to run little ANS.
Dan is that -- the information Dan on the historical in compared to today is that you guys would be willing to share? On the ANS I believe we can.
Okay.
Scott can you give me some balance sheet data: the working capital the market value of inventory in excess of the book and the long-term debt portion of your total debt? Sure.
Working capital was $1.152 billion that includes cash.
Without cash it was $600 million.
The excess market value over book was $1.9 billion.
I'm sorry Paul what was the other thing you were looking for? The long-term debt portion of your total debt.
Yes $1.7 billion.
$1.7 billion also? Right.
Okay.
And maybe this is for either Greg or Dan.
For the second half of this year and the first half next year is there any major turnarounds we should be aware? Regarding the third quarter our turnaround load is relatively light.
And guidance on fourth quarter and subsequent quarters I think we'll hold off on that for the time being.
Okay.
A final one.
Scott you guys have some sizable hedging gains looks like around $83 million or about $1.80 $1.90 per barrel.
And I believe that the bulk of them probably is related to your foreign long-haul supply that time gap between when you have to fix the price and when you got delivery.
And so that should not impact -- what you're doing is that you're trying to matching your report earning similar to the spot margin calculation.
So I just want to make sure that our understanding is correct and that we should not need to take out those hedging gains in terms of projecting forward in our earnings estimate.
And also that within there how much is related to the inventory hedging? And how much is the further bond crude? Yes you're right Paul.
About 80% of that gain in the quarter relates to long-haul crude purchases.
And matching those costs with the day of refining margin as you said the rest actually relate mostly to our Tesoro Panama assets and protecting the value of those barrels while they're in transit through the system.
And then really only a very small percentage are related to managing product inventory length.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow with Macquarie Capital.
A couple of questions here.
On the Los Angeles project can you explain how you can fabricate a unit complete the installation about a year all for $40 million? It seems almost too good to be true.
What's the catch there? Yes sure I'll take that.
I think the short answer would be if we had to do all those things we couldn't.
We're quite fortunate in this case in that the vacuum tower itself was purchased and built by another refinery that couldn't complete the project.
So we're able to get that at a significantly discounted price.
Technically the project's quite simple.
You can think of that as a simple replacement of a vessel.
There's very little furnace or other modifications to install the project and due to the emission reduction rather than an emission increase the permitting process is streamlined significantly.
Okay great.
The greenhouse gas reduction that you anticipate does that satisfy demands under AB 32 going forward? No but it contributes.
It contributes okay.
Second question any thoughts on reinstating the regular dividend? Chi we've come back in and done a pretty comprehensive evaluation to determine whether reinstating a dividend would be something we'd want to do.
And at this point in time we have elected not to do that for 2 reasons.
One is that we have these projects to reinvest capital that are actually very very attractive from both the return and short payback and have good sustainable earnings associated with them.
And so our focus right now is to continue to de-lever and then to reinvest in these projects as we identify them so we can really execute de-lever and to increase our profitability.
And so at this point in time we do not intend to reinstate the dividend.
Okay Greg.
And final question I think this relates to Paul's question on the Tesoro Index.
Certainly in California it's not really indicative of your performance over the last few quarters.
Do you give any thought to changing that index to make it a little more useful for us and attract margins? I mean it's a good question Chi.
We were actually going back in and evaluating our indexes in that and just haven't completed that evaluation to be -- make them reflective of the market in that.
So we'll probably be able to share more with that about that during the second half of the year because we're just not done with that work yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
My questions are some follow-up on the bullet train to Anacortes.
Can you break down the real cost? Before you said the less that it was $8 a transport.
I presume that's in the BNF [ph] tariff at $6.75 plus loading and unloading fees is that correct? Yes the tariff is less than $8.
And then there's loading fees and unloading fees on top of that when we have a third party that we're loading as we've mentioned in our press release at in North Dakota.
And then we will just incur the additional costs -- it's I mean just some labor costs.
It's not that complicated an operation in our refinery in Anacortes.
But the loading and unloading is included in the under $8 transport? No it is not.
Okay so that's additional.
So you disclosed what the fees are? No we're not going to do that.
It's...
But you'll do it when you drop it into the MLP right? Well when we drop it in MLP we'll disclose.
But the market rates are right when we negotiate.
Okay.
And then on the 9- to 12-month construction before permitting when do you expect to receive first permits? And is that permitting on both ends of the system? I'll let Dan answer that question.
Permitting on the source end is complete.
Permitting on the destination end should we intend or hope to be complete by approximately January of 2012.
We've actually designed that facility to minimize any environmental issues which we again hope will streamline the permitting process.
Okay.
So then you'd be 9 months from that point be receiving the advantaged crude in Anacortes or -- at the earliest is that correct? That is correct.
We are very incentivized to get the project operational so we'll do everything we can to get it operating.
And how long before the July announcement were you guys working on a rail resolution? Just trying to get a better feel for the full cycle time it takes to add rail capacity out of Bakken to add to the 9- to 12-month construction time plus what looks like a 6-month permitting time.
Evan we looked at -- we've been working a lot of -- because of our position with our crude gathering and trucking operations up in the Bakken we've looked at a lot of different possibilities over time to do different things that originate there and to deal with Anacortes was one of those things.
We're just trying to find the best economic value.
So probably that specific thing we've been working for just 3 or 4 months to really look at the whole economics of doing it.
I think we mentioned in our press release that we had already started at the beginning of June delivering a couple thousand barrels a day of Bakken crude there just to work through the whole system.
Okay.
And then when we think about crude differentials we're looking at Clearbrook versus -- whatever.
I mean as -- I guess it goes towards the other question that I guess Chi had asked about in terms of the indicator margin for the West Coast.
I mean if we wanted to calc on -- if we want to put our own crack into that system is Oriente a better crude to think about versus ANS? I mean Oriente is one of the possible crudes that we run there.
Okay.
But -- and then Clearbrook pricing is that accurate for where you'll be purchasing Bakken to load? Or is that too high? Yes well our desire is to be able to gather use our assets.
Our intent there -- one of the advantages is to get use our assets both from a trucking and pipeline gathering to gather the crude at the least had.
It's just how much of that we can accomplish.
Well we'll see how that works out.
Okay.
Are the railcars MLP-able? Yes they are.
They are actually a lease currently.
So not MLP-able from a drop-down perspective.
I understand.
I do not -- I thought that you may be buying them.
And what is your commitment with BNSF? Is that just a one-year type of commitment? And clearly as the margin in the yield benefit indicate you'll continue to make runs? Yes I mean there is no real firm commitment with the BNSF as far as locking in on the tariff going overtime so we have that option to go for some period of time.
Our economics are based upon what we said earlier with the differential for Bakken to the Gulf Coast.
We feel we're advantaged to do that both transportation and yield.
Okay.
And are you going to secure crude on the crude side? Are you going to similarly like what you've done at Mandan for a producer? Are you going to enter into a supply agreement? Are you going to just take something at a wait spot? There's a commercial arrangement that we -- we're just not going to disclose how we secure our crude.
Okay.
I'll just shift one last question on your L.A.
refinery project that you mentioned earlier.
I mean does -- and that solution I presume would mitigate EPA emission spending that was at least as of 6 months ago was ultimately going to be required? Is that a fair assessment? I don't believe that it offsets any emission spending.
What it does do is decrease some nominal amount of CO2 emissions.
Your next question comes from the line of Jacques Rousseau with RBC.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I just wanted to get a little more color on the Hawaii refinery if we could about the renegotiated contract and when you received a benefit.
Was it in the second quarter? And what type of magnitude? The actual ruling from the Hawaiian Public Utility Commission came in about the second week of May.
And that became effective at the time of the ruling it was not retroactive.
And so all along as we've gone through the negotiations our analysis had looked at a longer period of time at the pricing differentials between the 2 different type of reference pricing for fuel oil.
And over longer periods of time that yields about I think we said about a $25 million advantage to us.
As you're aware with the impact in Japan and what's happened to the fuel oil market that doesn't show up in the market as clearly now so it doesn't hurt us.
And from the pricing with fuel oil but it's -- the differential isn't as great as it used to be based upon historical analysis.
Although we think that that will come back.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And just lastly you discussed some of the commentary around distillate exports.
Is any of that Tesoro exporting distillate? On the West Coast we've consistently -- if you look at the West Coast exports we've consistently exported both gasoline and distillate off of the West Coast.
LLC</strong> And what type of level would the distillate at exports be? Dan you want to? Yes.
About 15 a day.
Your next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Just a quick follow-up on Jacque's last question there the 15 000 barrels a day.
I'm just trying to confirm.
Those barrels are going abroad and not to just other regional kind of domestic areas correct? That's correct.
On the diesel exports off the West Coast.
Secondly the Mid-Pacific guidance on costs seems to be fairly low at $2.90 a barrel.
It's been a while since you've achieved that.
Has something changed there? And is that a good kind of run rate going forward? I think we expect it to be a good run rate going forward but it's really subject to the maintenance plans that we have on a given quarter.
Quarter 1 and quarter 2 were significantly out of character for Hawaii I believe due to some extensive cogen repair.
During that timeframe when we have our cogen down we actually have to purchase electricity instead of convert -- essentially consume our own kerosene or jet fuel to produce electricity.
So what you saw was a high optics cost partially offset by a gross margin improvement.
Okay great.
And then the last one for me.
I just wanted to confirm retail was obviously very strong in the quarter.
Clearly we're seeing some crude prices come off here which typically benefits you given the lag.
Is it fair to say now that we're about halfway through the third quarter that those strong results should kind of spill into 3Q as well? We've got some marginal spilling to Q3 but I think the maturity of the lag effect between spot and street has been captured.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
If I could just ask a couple of questions about the market.
Currently you've also referenced that Tesoro Index may not be the perfect indicator that what we see on the screens isn't always -- but on starting on the West Coast margins looking very weak there I wondered if you could observe on what's kind of the problem of what should be a stronger time of year typically.
I'll only take a shot at that specific to the West Coast.
Refinery utilization is up significantly and we're seeing low crack if you look at ANS as your base crude.
We as we did in Q1 and Q2 expect to beat the ANS index.
The real phenomenon around the West Coast that we all have to be attentive to is the net import-export.
And net import-export has been favorable as the cracks drop off an absolute price on the West Coast.
We actually are opening up BARTs to export even to the Gulf Coast which is a little bit unusual.
So the market's relatively liquid and it's correcting itself.
Is there a global crude grade that we can use as the alternate to ANS to try to get a better idea of what your true margin is? I think that as Greg said earlier we're going to work on that in the third quarter and see if we can establish an index that better represents our true crack.
And the difficulty of that is finding a reference crude that you can actually find a future on oil that is traded publicly.
Right.
But I guess is that -- at Latin American and Asian crudes is that -- or how do we think about it? It compared besides the California heavy crudes.
There is South American crudes that come into the West Coast.
No Asian crudes to our system.
Great.
Got you Greg.
And then just briefly going through the other markets.
The Pacific Northwest still looking fairly healthy I guess.
Mid-Con obviously seems to be raging.
And Hawaii looks a bit rough again.
Is that more or less fair? Yes I think that's a good characterization.
Greg on a kind of corporate strategy point you paid down debt now towards the 30% target.
I believe it's a 30% target or a 31%.
Is it -- would we expect you to not pay down any debt beyond the 30% and then look for other options regarding cash? Paul we will probably -- we have to account -- we have the notes maturing in 2012 that will continue to -- whether we continue to pay those down or wait till maturity that's something we'll decide as we go forward from a cash standpoint.
But we will continue to pay down some debt.
It's just a matter of the timing on those 2012 notes.
And then --  and we're always continuing to evaluate all opportunities particularly like I mentioned earlier to someone else's questions on these projects that we've been identifying in the system that were really very attractive could either help lower our crude cost or like the L.A.
project that helps improve our yield in that.
But we're really focused on trying to find projects.
And as you can see these are very major projects.
They're around $50 million plus or minus a little bit but they're very high return projects that we can go in and get good sustainable earnings.
And that's really where we're focused on doing that with the cash that we have.
And so we have a few more opportunities that we're looking at and hopefully we'll get those to the maturity level where we can come and talk about those during the second half of the year.
Right.
So we need look at the maturity schedule of your debt to understand how much further you're going to go as opposed to thinking about 30% as an ultimate target? Yes I think that's fair to do that.
I mean we said below 30% so yes I think look at the maturity and that will give you a good idea of what we're doing.
The final one for me Greg.
The federal report on Anacortes was if I remember right you guided to be out by October last year.
Firstly any idea whatsoever why it's taking so long and when it might come out? And secondly could you just outline what the risks are surrounding that report to the extent that you can understand them? Yes.
That report you're referring to I think when you say federal is the report from the Chemical Safety Board.
And we really -- Paul we don't really have a good idea of when that report will be released.
There have been comments in the past in our expectation that we would've received it prior to now but that hasn't been the case so we continue to work with the Chemical Safety Board on their investigation.
And I really can't -- we'd like to see it just like everyone else but we don't have any really good idea when that is.
We don't think there'll be any surprises.
I think there was a public announcement not too long ago that confirmed what we said all along that the source of the the cause of the incident was the high temperature hydrogen attack.
And that's I think that's been pretty much validated with all of the different investigations.
But other than that -- we're kind of --  we just need to kind of wait and see what they say.
We don't feel that with everything we have done and not that there's any significant exposure but we will wait and see the findings of that report.
Great.
And you just happen to have an analyst meeting late this year right? Yes.
We will -- our analyst meeting will more than likely be around the same timeframe as last year sometime in the first part of December.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Gilman with Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of things.
Would I be correct in assuming that your decision to differ the $50 million in turnaround into '12 is based largely on margin outlook? The decision really has a little bit to do with margin outlook.
But to be honest with you it has more to do with just the overall timing of the of our overall turnaround plan.
So that $50 million expense was one that was going to curve pretty close to the end of the year anyway.
So it's just moving a little bit mainly just from a workload standpoint in that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can we get back -- and I'm sorry to keep beating up on this but the rail project.
I think you indicated in your answer to a prior question that the rail cars are going to be leased.
Is the cost of that included in what you indicated before as the tariff? The rail cars will be leased.
And the tariff that I talked about was just the tariff not the cost of the rail cars.
LLC</strong> Do you have a number for what that lease is likely to run per barrel or total dollar? From a -- we're not going to get into all the little details of the different costs going into there.
It's a very attractive way to supply but it's financially more attractive to lease the rail cars than it is to tie up our capital and it doesn't add significant cost to the tariff.
LLC</strong> Did I gauge your opening comments Greg correctly when you characterized the project as having a $28 yield benefit offset by $24 presumably including tariff and crude price yielding a net benefit of $4 per barrel did I get that right? Well what we talked about in the opening comments was one we talked about the yield advantage by producing less resid and more clean products and said that in the second quarter that would -- the differential between the clean products and resid was about $28 a barrel which gives us about approximately a $4 yield advantage.
And that's kind of what we see going forward.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry I'm confused between the $28 and the $4 Greg? The $28 was the difference between clean products and resid in the second quarter.
And because we're only yielding $16 1/4 of that the 16% of that -- excuse me that gives you to about a $4 advantage from a yield standpoint.
Is that clear? LLC</strong> Okay that's what the -- sure enough much better.
Maybe Dan could -- without getting into too much heavy technical stuff talk to me about how it is that the replacement of the vacuum unit actually results in yield improvement and reduction in coke production in favor of light product? I just can't follow it from a process standpoint.
Okay.
I'll try to talk at a high level which is useful because that's what I can do.
The -- think of it as a replacement of small pipe with the big pipe.
Vacuum -- the recovering -- the gasols out of resid requires a very very low pressure drop so the fatter you make the tower the more liquid you can recover from it out of the top spick-et [ph].
And that's what this tower does.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My understanding that you took in some Libyan crude during the quarter Greg.
I know you took one cargo did you take any more? And was that significantly discounted? Mark during the quarter we took in one cargo of Libyan crude and it was priced attractively at the time.
That's how we -- once we received approval that we could buy that Libyan crude that's the reason we purchased it.
But it was just a one spot cargo that we've been in sitting in Asia.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I noticed when looking at the overall system statistics in the quarter Greg that the crude slate overall was considerably lighter in this period than it had been in the past.
Yet the product yield slate with that lighter crude slate was somewhat heavier.
Can you help me understand how that happens? I think what you're seeing is an impact of the turnaround we had at Golden Eagle.
We lightened up our slate during that timeframe so that we'll continue to run production barrels.
And then we build some heavy intermediates.
LLC</strong> Okay Dan so that is a temporary thing attributable primarily to the turn? That's our expectation yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I just got a couple of quick things Greg please.
First of all on capital if you're pushing back the turnarounds a wee bit into next year and you've got some additional projects I guess but on more of the kind of quick-hit type your original CapEx budget I believe was somewhere in the region of 6 65 from next year.
Can you give us a preliminary guidance as to where you think that number ends up? And I've got a couple of follow-ups please.
I mentioned earlier that we're actually right in the middle of our planning process to look at both our turnaround activity for 2012.
I mean you referenced both the CapEx and a turnaround number.
So we're looking at our turnaround activity for 2012 and then secondly are doing the same thing from a capital budget standpoint.
I mean we're pretty comfortable that the level of capital that we need to reinvest for both regulatory and compliance is a pretty stable amount so that changes to our capital will be entirely upon projects to enhance the overall performance of the assets.
So we'd already said we are running with these small capital projects that really are high-return short-payback periods.
We've talked in our analyst meeting last year that we were going to spend a little over $100 million this year and it's probably in ballpark the same thing next year.
The change will be as it now we're doing stuff in Mandan stuff in Anacortes and other things that we're looking at that aren't ready to be put in our budget yet.
So that's kind of the best guidance I can give you at this point in time.
Good stuff.
You did at the analyst day last year the turnaround number Greg was $2.75 which is obviously a huge step up from 2011.
Is that still a good starting point or has that changed also? That is the starting point.
I mean we'll be looking to optimize our turnaround schedule for '12 as we go through our planning.
But you're exactly right that was the number that we revealed last year.
And so we'll go through and look at how we manage our turnarounds for 2012.
Good stuff.
Is the AB 32 '11 sitting there or do you have any thoughts about how you might couch the possibility that there are more regulatory expenditures required? For '12 we don't see any significant expenditures for AB 32 because there's still so much work going on in the development of the regulations in that.
But hopefully as we progress through time we'll get a better idea of the impact from AB 32 standpoint.
But I don't see any significant impact in 2012.
I've just got 2 final ones that are fairly quick hopefully.
Hawaii my understanding was you were having a board meeting to -- and one of the things that was going to come up where I guess was the future of Hawaii.
Obviously a great quarter in Q2 but what's the decision there? Have you reached a conclusion as to what the outlook is? And then I've just got one final one please.
Hawaii is like everything else as we're doing evaluations around how we make assets better and what the opportunities in that are.
And we have not completed that work yet but we will shortly be completed with the work around Hawaii.
We're just not completely done with what we want to look at.
Maybe by the Analyst Day? Some time.
Okay.
Last one for me is I think a lot of people have tried to get an answer to this so I'm going to try it from a different angle.
The crude discount or the benefit on the West Coast I mean obviously you've never really ran a lot of ANS given the limitations in the supply there over the years.
But can you talk about how the evolution of your relative discount to your average crude slate has moved particularly in 2011 relative to ANS rather than telling us a different crude nevertheless all the rest of it? Talk maybe about what the discount has looked like and how that evolved and what that was like currently.
That would be great.
Yes I don't think we have that with us that we could sit down and go through that.
I mean in California we're basically running the California heavies and California lights and then some South American crudes.
But I don't...
The reason I'm asking is that Occidental is suggesting that they are getting fuel world market pricing on their crude in California.
And I'm just wondering where the discount is coming from and how the -- I know Oriente is a part of that but I'm trying to get an average number.
And currently could you give us an idea where that's trading relative to ANS? Is it $2 under? Is it $5 under? What should obviously it look like? Maybe I'll take a shot at -- I don't know if it's going to satisfy all your curiosity but the -- if you take a look at the Cold Lake type crudes which are a portion of our diet they're almost $32 under -- purchasing at $32 a crack relative to say ANS which is about $15.
But the slate changes frequently based upon what the market opportunities are and we try to nimbly capture those.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.