Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 Tesoro Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alex and I will be your operator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to hand the call over to Louie Rubiola the Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Go ahead please sir.
Thank you Alex.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our second quarter 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While they will not be -- while we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Additionally I'd like to note that going forward the company intends to use Twitter in conjunction with other Regulation FD-compliant disclosure vehicles such as press releases 8-Ks and our Investor Relations website as part of a broader investor and stakeholder communication strategy.
Please sign up to follow us on twitter.com/tesorocorp.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Louie.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of the results in a moment but I'm going to start with an overview of some recent highlights.
Despite significant turnaround activity during the quarter we delivered a solid operating performance and strong second quarter earnings of $1.56 per diluted share excluding discontinued Hawaii operations and special items.
We closed the transformational acquisition of the Southern California refining marketing and logistics business.
We announced an agreement to sell our Hawaii business to a subsidiary of Par Petroleum and expect to close the sale in September.
We announced a joint venture with Savage to own and operate an initial 120 000-barrel-per-day unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the Port of Vancouver Washington allowing us to drive additional feedstock cost advantage throughout our West Coast refining system.
We also announced an exciting branding agreement with Exxon Mobil introducing the well-established Exxon and Mobil brands into our retail network providing the capability to drive additional retail fuel sales volumes further integrating our refining and marketing businesses supporting sustainably higher refinery utilization.
We made significant progress on our high-return capital program during the second quarter with the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery and the completion of the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project.
These high return capital projects drive product yield improvements and expand our capability to run cost-advantaged crude oil.
We also delivered a solid operating performance with refinery utilization of 93%.
This was achieved despite significant turnaround activity at our Salt Lake City and Anacortes refineries.
During the second quarter we continued to execute our share buyback program with about $100 million in purchases.
So far in the third quarter we purchased an additional $30 million taking total purchases to about 2/3 of the $500 million outstanding program.
And finally yesterday we announced a 25% increase in our regular quarterly dividend to $0.25 per share.
Now turning to results for the quarter.
Strong light product crack spreads and continued however lower-than-last-year feedstock cost advantage provided an attractive margin environment in the quarter.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the second quarter averaged about $15 per barrel essentially flat relative to a year ago while the company's realized gross margin of $15.42 per barrel or over 100% of the Tesoro Index.
Our performance relative to the internal benchmark was negatively impacted by turnaround activity and lower yet still strong year-over-year discounts on advantaged crude oil.
Despite the significant turnaround activity refinery throughput rates during the quarter averaged 624 000 barrels per day or 93% utilization up 101 000 barrels per day relative to the second quarter last year.
The year-over-year increase in throughput is attributable primarily to the addition of the Carson refinery on June 1.
We are very pleased with the operating performance of Carson in June running in excess of 100% utilization capturing an attractive margin environment which can be seen in the reported results in our California region.
The integration of Carson with our legacy Southern California refining and marketing business is going very well.
We look forward to providing additional details around the integration and an updated view of the expected synergies later this year.
Beyond the strong operating performance we delivered 2 significant high-return capital projects on time during the quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we completed the first phase of the Salt Lake City Conversion Project in May which allows us to run additional cost-advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uintah Basin.
With the completion of the first phase we can run up to 17 000 barrels per day of this advantaged crude oil.
After completing the second phase of the project which is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect to be able to run up to 22 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
The combination of Phase 1 and Phase 2 capital spending for the project has increased by about $95 million.
This was driven by the accelerated project schedule and a change in scope.
The second phase of the project also allows us to expand total throughput capacity of the Salt Lake City refinery by about 4 000 barrels per day or 7% and improved clean product yield.
Additionally in June of this year we completed the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery increasing capacity of that unit by nearly 30% to 22 000 barrels per day driving our ability to produce more high-valued diesel fuel.
Manufacturing costs in the first quarter averaged $5.39 per barrel up $0.53 per barrel quarter-over-quarter impacted primarily by refinery maintenance during the second quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up over 60% year-over-year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail stations on June 1 of this year and the 174 Thrifty Oil company retail stations we brought into the system last year.
Thanks to our fuel sales during the quarter we're up about 3% and retail marketing margins were down about $0.16 per gallon relative to the same period last year.
Capital spending for the second quarter was $170 million.
Turnaround spending was $118 million.
Including the impact from our recent acquisitions we increased our 2013 capital budget by $130 million and now expect consolidated capital spending of $690 million including regulatory maintenance and income projects.
We increased our turnaround budget for 2013 by $90 million and now expect about $400 million in turnaround spending this year.
As we shared with you in December of last year 2013 is an exceptionally high turnaround spending year for the company excluding Carson and we look forward to lower planned spending and improved production yields on our legacy assets for the next few years.
Despite recent volatility we remain optimistic about U.S.
refining market conditions.
As we have said for some time independent of favorable market conditions we are driving significant value from our existing asset base and optimizing our portfolio of assets.
The actions we have taken as we have delivered on our strategic plan provide exciting opportunities to grow future earnings and improve return on capital employed.
For example with the sale of the Hawaii business we'll be able to redeploy several hundred million dollars of working capital from the lower-return Hawaii business to the Carson refinery driving an improvement in return on capital employed.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the third quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night second quarter net income from continuing operations was $238 million or $1.72 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we reported an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $216 million or $1.56 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include after-tax $34 million of income related to a pipeline settlement in California and about $12 million after-tax of transaction costs related to the 2 acquisitions we closed on during the second quarter.
That compares to adjusted net income from continuing operations in the second quarter of last year of $380 million or $2.70 per diluted share.
Special items that we excluded last year include after-tax $11 million primarily in legal matters and a $6 million after-tax accrual related to a benefit change for our retirement-eligible employees.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the 2013 quarter on a pretax basis were $49 million before $5 million in corporate depreciation $17 million in noncash stock-based compensation credit and $19 million of transaction costs that I just mentioned.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $170 million.
Turnaround spending was $118 million.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of over $420 million a use of over $1.5 billion for the quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA of about $530 million was a source of cash during the quarter.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $290 million shareholder distribution and share buybacks of nearly $150 million cash interest and taxes of just under $100 million and working capital and other of about $695 million.
We also utilized about $870 million in cash on hand to fund the Carson acquisition and TLLP's acquisition of the Northwest Products System during the quarter.
Our use of cash for working capital during the quarter was primarily a result of a seasonal build in inventory as we ramp up refinery utilization temporary inventory late [ph] coming out of significant refinery maintenance and a slight inventory build at Carson post-closing.
To fund the Carson acquisition we increased our borrowings by about $1.7 billion during the quarter consisting of $500 million in term loan borrowings at Tesoro $700 million in revolver borrowings at Tesoro and $544 million in revolver borrowings at Tesoro Logistics to fund their acquisition of Carson's logistics assets.
At the end of the second quarter we had additional revolving credit capacity of about $1.5 billion on the corporate revolver and just over $30 million on the Tesoro Logistics revolver.
Yesterday Tesoro Logistics closed a $550 million 6 1/8% senior notes offering due in 2021.
Proceeds from the offering were used to pay off all outstanding borrowings under -- through our Tesoro Logistics revolver leaving the partnership undrawn on that facility today.
Consolidated total debt to total capitalization is 39% or 36% excluding Tesoro Logistics.
Turning to the third quarter.
The third quarter typically sees a slight seasonal increase in demand for gasoline and distillates in PADD V.
On a year-over-year basis we've seen same-store fuel sales up over 2% in our retail channel of trade in July similar to the second quarter.
Quarter-to-date industry refinery utilization rates on the West Coast are slightly above the 5-year average and light product inventory is well within the 5-year range or above average.
Accordingly West Coast crack spreads quarter-to-date are down over 25% relative to both the second quarter of this year and the third quarter of last year.
In the Mid-Continent the decline in the discount of WTI to LLS has had an impact on Group 3 crack spreads quarter-to-date which are down about 30% quarter-over-quarter and over 40% year-over-year.
Inland feedstock advantage however in the northern tier of the U.S.
Mid-Continent specifically for Bakken crude oil has remained attractive where crude oil discounts tend to be driven more by rail transportation costs to coastal refining centers.
I'll close with guidance for the third quarter modeling purposes.
This guidance includes Carson but excludes Hawaii.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 515 to 525 in the California region 165 to 175 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $5.75 in the California region; $4.10 in the Pacific Northwest; and $3.70 in the Mid-Continent.
While we expect some level of throughput in operating expense at the Hawaii refinery as we restart the facility prior to the sale we intend to again report the Mid-Pacific region as a discontinued operation.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $100 million.
Additional third quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expenses excluding depreciation of $48 million and interest expense before interest income of $43 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes the impact of integration costs as well as some trailing transaction costs.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with our second quarter results.
With the bulk of the planned 2013 turnaround activity behind us we look forward to running at high refinery utilization rates and capturing attractive market conditions.
With the addition of the Carson refinery and the continued execution of our strategic plan we are encouraged with the prospects of future growth at Tesoro.
Using the third quarter as an example and the midpoint of our California region throughput guidance we expect to add 260 000 barrels per day or over 100% of year-over-year growth in California.
Additionally with our near-term ability to generate significant cash flow via the sale of our Hawaii business the sale of the second tranche of Carson logistics assets to TLLP and cash flow from operations we look forward to shortly returning Tesoro's balance sheet to the same strong position as prior to the Carson acquisition.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and we'll continue to prioritize investing in high-return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via a strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and delevering our balance sheet.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A question on California.
The California -- you beat the quarter with a higher capture rate and I was wondering if you could give me any color here.
Did you just run well in California or is that the inclusion of Carson that lifted returns? Any way to -- any color on separating those 2 items? I'll let Dan comment on that to you -- for you Evan.
Yes Evan I think we'd characterize our capture rate as pretty close to what we expected.
120%-plus capture rate on 107% utilization is pretty strong.
Actually the higher utilization reduced capture a bit relative to what we'd expect at utilizations that are sub-100%.
Carson obviously had a great run in the month of June and it was a piece of success.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And a question on differentials.
They've compressed since announcing your planned rail project in Vancouver.
If we focus on California where I presume a lion's share of the volumes will likely go if we consider rail shipping yield lift I mean is the cash breakeven from Bakken [ph] is something -- is it around a $10 number? Can you give me any more specifics around where that indifference point is for you? Evan we still see the differentials on that Bakken crude going to the West Coast as unchanged on a go-forward basis.
We see the attractiveness of -- because of the lower cost to move Bakken there relative to other locations.
And the yield advantage that you get that continues to be strong over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any color on how much? I know you said you're going to give a synergy update on Carson later in the year but any update on how you may change that crude diet? Or is that also something we'd expect later in the year? Yes.
I mean everything we've seen so far we're very positive on our early indications for the business and we plan to fully talk about what we see as we get a little bit more time to digest that later this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert.
Research Division</strong> Very impressive list of business development activities underway at the company.
What I wanted to ask about was the Port of Vancouver railing unloading project.
I saw that you'd recently received Board of Commissioner approval.
What's the status of your environmental permitting process and what major hurdles do you have before starting construction? Yes you're exactly right Jeff.
We did receive unanimous approval from the commissioners last week which was a very positive step forward.
We are now in the process of going through the permitting process to being able to bring the facility online.
And that hasn't really changed.
We expect that to take a better part of about a year to get that fully developed in that.
And it's just the normal challenges of going through the regulatory process and complying with all the requirements but we're fully prepared between Tesoro and with Savage to deal with that.
And fortunately we've already gone through a process similar when we did the Anacortes permit last year so we have some experience of how to do that.
Research Division</strong> Is there any notable resistance either local or state? I know you were successful generating support for the Carson acquisition.
Any notable resistance to the Vancouver project? It's just what you would expect.
I mean there are different parties that have their opinions on this type of activity that you have to work your way through in that.
But we're very confident with our plans on how we will operate with our sensitivity and awareness of the environment in that that we'll be able to work through all of that.
But there's nothing that stands out at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the I guess synergies I guess we're always going to dig for that.
But when you think about the synergies are you thinking about bringing forward the synergies or do you think you'll actually even be able to exceed the sort of $250 million because that was a sort of a 2017 number in the original plan for Carson? I think in fairness Ed I think we're -- everything that we've seen so far looks very encouraging and positive and we just need a little bit of time to firm up our synergy plans.
So a little bit later this year we'll be able to lock in on numbers and more importantly the timing with an expectation that we'll do everything we can to front-end load those synergies.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the black wax you said first phase is complete which is great and then the second phase is in 2014.
But can you just remind us of how much EBITDA you think you'd get up in an uplift from the first part of that phase? And then I think I heard you discuss changing the scope and maybe increasing the costs a little bit there.
Can you just elaborate? Yes that's a good question.
Let me ask Dan to respond to both of those questions.
Okay.
Regarding the EBITDA from Phase 1 versus Phase 2 they were about equally split.
When we reviewed the project originally I believe we said the EBITDA was in the $100 million range.
So at a run rate we should assume that Phase 1 is about $50 million here and Phase 2 will be the remaining $50 million.
On the capital perspective yes we did recently complete our defined gate estimate for Phase 2 and that estimate along with the capital costs that we've seen to date on Phase 1 have increased the total capital costs by about $90 million.
The EBITDA and the project schedule remain consistent with our prior guidance so the project itself remains quite attractive at plus 30% rate of return.
The primary reasons for the cost escalation as Greg mentioned are our desire to continue to meet accelerated project delivery that we announced originally.
We received our permit for construction in third quarter of last year and then needed to complete all the time work for Phase 1 in the second quarter of this year and we'll prepare for the remaining time for Phase 2 in the fourth quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> So a great project but it's sort of that CapEx is going up without an increase in EBITDA is what I'm hearing? That's correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Greg is it too early for you to have changed the crude slate at Carson? Or is that something that's still ahead of us? Yes it's a little bit too early as we -- I mean it's been only 60 days Doug so it's something we'll work on over time but it's just a little bit too early.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I'm kind of thinking is obviously Savage is a project for the future but can you give us any more color as to what your plans are if you can outline those out a little bit more in terms of how exactly -- what you expect to be moving through Savage and whether or not the volumes you could -- you would actually take your partner's volume down for their site [ph] as well? Well a couple of points.
One is the facility at the Port of Vancouver in Washington will have actually a lot of flexibility and capability to take different types of crudes from heavy Canadian crudes to crudes from the Mid-Continent so we'll have that capability with the tankage and segregation there.
So we will source crude from where the best place is.
The facility also was designed to supply the entire West Coast.
I mean we can go from as far away as Alaska to Southern California in those refineries which we intend to do.
Now you made a point about Savage.
I mean Savage is an operative facility.
They don't supply crude there.
It's the companies that contract for the crude there.
So we will take the crude from -- initially our crude is destined for Southern California probably from Bakken.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But would you expect to have right of first refusal if you like for the total uptick? We have a lot of flexibility to access the facility there so we have.
There's a lot of potential there.
As we mentioned initially we've just targeted to come on with about 120 000 barrels a day.
But we can ramp up very very quickly to just short of a 300 000 barrels a day if the demand's there not only from Tesoro but anyone else from that standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And 2 very final quick ones if I may.
I've -- we're all trying to scratch around on breakeven prices for rails in the Bakken but is there an ANS Bakken level where you would see the economics of railing Bakken crude doesn't work? Is there a number that you can give us for that? I think there's a couple.
Research Division</strong> Yield up there? Yes.
And instead of giving a specific number because I think it's more important to understand what it's comprised of I mean there are 2 parts.
One is which we've always said from the very beginning is the upgrade value because of the quality of Bakken relative to ANS is in that $3 to $5 a barrel range.
And we've said that from day 1 we've recently validated that.
So from a yield standpoint at the refinery that is still present.
In addition the cost to go from Bakken to the Pacific Northwest for example in this case to Anacortes is the rail rate which we've talked about before the loading fee the unloading fee and the rail car costs which to us they're in the $9 or so range and it will be slightly less to get to Port of Vancouver because the rail costs are less to get to Vancouver to deliver into the facility.
So if you look at the cost there of around $9 or so and then the yield advantage you can kind of see where the spread needs to be between the Bakken crude and ANS.
Those are locked in so those are firm numbers Doug.
Research Division</strong> The last one for me should we expect the buyback to slow down while you sort out the balance sheet? And I'll leave it here.
Regarding the buyback we're very disciplined.
It's our intent to continue to execute and complete the buyback by the end of 2013.
Our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A lot of the operational stuff has already been hit.
I was just going to ask you've obviously got a lot of potential here of drop-downs to TLLP going forward that will help on raising funds for the balance sheet.
But when you think about the debt repayment versus further dividend increases share repos let's just call it maybe generally shareholder returns how is that going to be weighed over the next say 12 to 18 months? Yes.
It's our intent and it's been our objective for the last 3 years to maintain a very strong balance sheet.
And we stated we wanted total debt to total cap below 30%.
On a go-forward basis as we hit some high points in the commentary earlier today we have the upcoming sale of the Hawaii business which frees up working capital.
We have the upcoming sale of the second tranche of logistics assets in California which will raise a fair amount of capital and that money will be used to pay back the borrowings as Scott specifically talked about in the -- how we funded the Carson acquisition.
So just those 2 alone you can see where that takes us to get back to almost the same state we were prior to that.
So it's -- we feel like we have a very clear plan to be able to do that in a very short timeframe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And kind of taking that -- I'm sorry? No comment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Taking that just a little further as you look out I know when you look at CapEx everybody always has sort of a wish list and then you whittle that down to what's actually available to be funded.
Obviously you've expanded or accelerated Salt Lake.
We've already done the expansion at Mandan.
As you kind of look out there and say what are the kind of things you can still do that improve performance or increase capacity what should we be thinking about? I mean it seems unlikely that California gets increased just because permitting is such a challenge but Pac Northwest or Alaska something in that area should we be looking at or is it much more you just want to improve what you have at this point? Yes we are not driven by increasing capacity.
We are very much focused on what we've been doing and that is to strengthen the yields coming off of the refineries and be able to lower our feedstock costs everywhere we can by how we can invest or source different types of crude oil to the projects.
And then finally if we find ways to lower the operating costs we will also do that.
So we are very focused on those 3 primary drivers of how we deploy capital to what we call our income projects.
Our next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin from Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Just going back -- actually going back a few years when you first unveiled your program I think the yield enhancements were going to create a little bit of incremental RINs exposure.
But at the same time you've invested a lot in retail assets since then.
And I was just wondering if that has been maybe eliminated or close to scratched out? You certainly can't see any RINs impact in California for example in this last quarter.
Yes I think maybe to clarify I mean a lot of our focus on yield improvement has probably been more towards the distillate end of the barrel than the gasoline end of the barrel of what we've been trying to do just so from a yield standpoint.
But the other thing that we've been very focused on as a result of the business model that we have is to be highly integrated.
So what we have done over the last 2 to 3 years is really focus on creating a very integrated refining marketing and logistics business which allows us to then place primarily the gasoline through channels of trade that support ratability and profitability in that.
And as a consequence that has a positive impact on the gasoline RINs that were required to -- by the big impact from the recent acquisition of Carson.
It's 100% integrated so that further strengthened our position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I think that's pretty evident from the results.
And also just secondly over the past few months there has been some acceleration in entities that control some real estate [indiscernible] and refineries there about building some rail loading facilities and I was just wondering if those projects and those initiatives have colored your agenda as far as unloading facilities in California and I know the permitting process is long but if now that you see some horizon for a lot of offtake going West if that's going to affect your plans.
Yes.
I mean we're -- our plans are -- we're very focused on what we are able to do to deliver more advantaged-price crude oils into the West Coast.
We wish those people good luck in their efforts to do that and we do take some -- we have said in the past that we do take some manifest cars into California already but our focus is on the Port of Vancouver and primarily because we believe the cost is equal to delivering it by rail car into California.
So [indiscernible] Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just on that -- will you be willing to share that what's in June Carson may have made in EBITDA? Paul we're going to report -- report it all as one segment for California not get away from that but we can say that as I think Dan made the point earlier to a prior question is that California ran at 100% utilization so the market conditions were good.
And so the facility from a profitability standpoint performed extremely well and pretty much in line with what our expectations were when we acquired it.
Research Division</strong> Or let me ask it in another way that if we're looking at your reported margin and also the operating costs in California is Carson number coming in roughly in line with those average or that is it the margin capture -- the margin is higher or lower to that and because it's higher or lower? Yes.
Let me take that one.
Paul the operating cost is probably the simplest way to -- or the simple answer Carson's operating costs are consistent with what we saw with the legacy California business and I'll probably stay away from the margin piece.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then talking about California I think Wilmington has always been an area that the costs seems to be a bit higher than what you guys would like.
Any progress on further reduce the cost there or do you think you already have done all you could in that facility? Well as you recall back in December we announced our intent to drop California operating costs by $1 a barrel.
Actually I think we provided an update at that time and the update at that time was $0.60 to $0.70 per barrel is what we'd achieved.
And we closed additional gap since that time enroute to $1 a barrel.
The rail operating cost improvement from this point on in California will be due to the synergy we can create when we tie and as we tie Wilmington and Carson together.
So the shorter answer to the question is we've gone a long ways and there is actually quite a bit more to go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have raised 2013 CapEx.
Any preliminary estimate for the CapEx for 2014 and '15? Not any different than what we said last year Paul.
It's just a little bit too early.
We'll be doing that at the end of the year but not different from what we said last year which only talked about -- it did not include Carson in there but just the legacy Tesoro assets.
Research Division</strong> And then the Carson we should just use -- at the time when you did your presentation that we should use those number at year on.
Is there any change from there? No I think that would be -- at this point in time that would be a good number to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that Dan I think that in the second half you guys don't have much of a turnaround.
How about in the first half of next year are we going to see another year of pretty heavy turnaround or that is probably processed and we're not going to see major turnaround like what we did in the first half this year until maybe 2 or 3 years down the road? Our view on the legacy assets remains consistent with what we've disclosed previously.
And that is we are coming out of the peak period so 2014 and for the next few years should be significantly lower than what we've seen in the last 2 years.
Research Division</strong> How about Carson? Do you need to go in relatively soon for any major turnarounds? We haven't disclosed '14 in detail for Carson yet and we're looking at it.
I think the best thing for you guys to use for now is the ratable 1.25 [ph] number that we've previously discussed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A final one Greg.
I know that you guys don't have much of an exposure for RIN this year but I'm just curious that from an industry standpoint is there any particular reason why RIN cannot in the building invoice to your customer to go the similar way as in the way that you would identify or bill them independently order as a separate item so that people know that whether their cost is being passed through? Yes.
I think Paul the answer to your question is companies have to do whatever they choose to how they respond to their customers and that -- and they have different agreements with different types of customers and that's -- I mean that is something people could consider but it's really going to be company specific.
Research Division</strong> And you guys have no intention to do that? We look at everything.
We haven't made a decision on doing anything like that.
I mean it's an idea I know that you brought up before and worthy of consideration but we have not taken a position on that yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Chi Chow from Macquarie Capital.
Greg I want to follow up on a couple of items that you talked about earlier in the call.
Regarding the cash flows coming in from Hawaii and the Carson logistics drop-down there is another bucket that you talked about earlier and that being excess inventory at Carson maybe being sold.
Is that still on the table and has that been completed yet? That's a good question Chi.
That is one of the things that we're -- as the dust settles now after the transaction's complete and we've been going through integration we are going back in and establishing how we'll manage the inventory and the networking capital position.
And so I would say the answer is we still expect to gain cash flow improvements from how we manage the networking capital position.
We're just not completed with that but it's an opportunity for us here in the second half of this year.
Okay great.
And then regarding the light crude opportunities into the West Coast you mentioned you're focused specifically on -- probably more on bringing Bakken in to California.
But assuming that there's no constraints on delivery method in the future is there some specific reason maybe from a crude assay standpoint that Bakken works better in California than say crude at the Permian or the Delaware basin or the San Juan Mancos basin those in the southern Mid-Continent? Is there some specific reason why Bakken works better? Just the cost advantage that you get from a quality standpoint.
From a yield there's not a significant difference there but it just becomes a function of how those crudes price relative to the source and our cost to get them into our system.
So no there really aren't.
Okay.
So on a quality standpoint it's really -- they're pretty similar? No significant difference yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Greg I'll ask you if you a big stressy in a second but just a detail one.
You seem to be warning on Q3 margins to date.
Is there anything unusual about the capture that you're achieving of what we've seen so far in Q3? Or is it just going to be a fairly straight line tough start to the quarter because of the lower margins that you referenced? Yes when Scott referenced kind of month -- the July margin it shows on a relative basis they're down in that.
But from a capture standpoint we have nothing that would be different from what we've experienced in the past.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I mean the positive obviously is being the capture you've seen in Q2.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> At run rate at Carson actually I mean were they implied run rates I guess I should say at Carson? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Were they above what the previous owner had been showing or is that a fairly -- again a fairly straightforward level of...? What the -- I'm sorry but one of the nice features about that facility is that it has always achieved high utilization rates.
It's a very integrated business and the utilization refinery is really kind of our leading industry in utilization.
Research Division</strong> The -- you were asked already about the change of crude slate there too early.
I guess that's not going to take too long though before it could -- I think be anticipated to have a pretty dramatic impact on for example Alaska North Slope crude markets? Yes.
It is our intent to make a tremendous focus on how we supply crude oil to the refinery and gain crude advantage there so we are doing everything we can to be able to do that.
So as we said earlier it's -- we're 60 days into it but we will definitely find opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Is it going to be a matter of months or is it something that's kind of -- fairly imminent that you'd change.
Well there's no question that the biggest flexibility that we gained is by having Port of Vancouver because when you can source as much crude as we could into Vancouver that opens the door up far wider.
But we're working on all possibilities as we speak right now and we'll be able to share more on what our plans are coming up at the latter part of this year.
Research Division</strong> Are you going to be doing an Analyst Meeting later? Yes we'll do our Analyst Meeting in December around the same timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And a reminder on the strategy.
I mean obviously people have referenced you got a tremendous amount of corporate action going on here.
You said in the past you want an integrated company that there may be opportunities.
I understand around your footprint presumably not more in California.
Can you just remind us how you see the ultimate aim of the company in terms of where we settle in if you like once -- is there a completion point is I guess what I'm driving towards in terms of all this action that you're taking? The management team here we are very committed to our geographic area.
We've been very clear from the beginning.
We look at all possible opportunities to see if they fit and if there is ways for us to create value with those opportunities as with other assets of that being part of the portfolio.
And we will continue to do that where it makes sense and it can create value so we stay abreast of that all the time Paul.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's just that when you listed the stuff that you were kind of prioritizing at the end of your prepared remarks it seemed that you're almost turning focus more back to balance sheet -- in due course back to balance sheet and if you'd like less corporate action? No.
I think our focus on that hasn't changed really from day 1 on if I'd use -- to use your term of corporate action but there's -- we are very committed to being very disciplined with our financial position so that if we do and find an opportunity we've said all along that we would go after those from a position of strength.
And so our focus in the very short term and we're talking months is to restore our financial position to one of strength.
And because of the steps we've taken it's -- I mean you have these discrete steps of the sale of Hawaii the sale of the logistics assets the chief question about our focus on working capital [ph] and that allows us to get back within a matter of months to a good strong financial position.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question regarding the agreement with Exxon Mobil on the branding for both of those brands Exxon and Mobil and sort of the northern California and around the Mandan facility.
What are your -- I know in the release you indicated that there were a number of -- I guess for the branded sites that you would be -- or contracts that you would be getting what was that 54? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> What is -- do you have options regarding your current branded folks? Can they -- can you offer them the Exxon or the Mobil names? Or what is the opportunity to really exploit those 2 new very high-quality brand names? Ann this is Dan.
Maybe I'll take that one.
Yes we have the rights to use the Exxon Mobil brands in the regions that you mentioned which were Northern California and the Pacific Northwest as well as North Dakota and the Minnesota area.
We can use those in generally any manner that we would wish.
We likely wouldn't go and offer those brands necessarily to our existing Shell dealers because that's already a premium brand channel that we have.
That would more likely be an opportunity for us to grow new channel business.
And that was the real value of this branding opportunity is we lacked a premium brand presence capability for Northern California and the Pacific Northwest and that's what this provides.
And your next question comes from the line of Clay Rynd from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the increased CapEx the $130 million is it -- should we assume that's all Carson or is part of that kind of the Salt Lake City increase.
Had you budgeted Carson into the $560 million originally? Or just kind of talk around that.
Sure.
This is Dan Clay.
We did not include Carson on our prior guidance because we hadn't closed yet on Carson.
So the $130 million increase is primarily Carson-related let's say around $100 million of it and the remainder is Salt Lake City.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then on the rail terminal at Vancouver you've mentioned $75 million to $100 million for the initial construction costs.
Is there much incremental costs to ramp volumes there? Or is that kind of the cost that's really the main slug? Yes initially when we came out with the Port of Vancouver project we stated that we saw total capital costs of $75 million to $100 million.
And just to restate that is the joint venture between Tesoro and Savage and so it's -- our share of that is 50% of that.
As we get further into the development and as we determine the actual capacity there could be increases in capital.
But to set up the 120 000 barrels a day our $50 million or 50% is a good estimate to get started.
Our last question in the queue comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just on the logistics assets now that they've kind of grown to a fairly large position within the company what are the plans in terms of breaking that out in the overall consolidated results so what you can see the -- what -- logistics is earning versus what's being charged to refining? And then I have a follow-up for that.
No no intentions to break it out.
I mean you can look at the Tesoro Logistics standalone entity and get a good indication of the contribution of the logistics business and the distributions that come back into Tesoro through there but no changes in our reporting.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
That makes sense.
And then just in terms of the assets that were dropped down to logistics from the BP Carson City assets logistics assets did they -- did you reset the tariffs and fees on those assets? And are they now kind of representative of sort of third [ph] market base sort of rates? Well they were proprietary assets until we took the steps we did at the beginning of June.
And the practice is to go out and survey the market and the rates that are charged for the use of those assets are absolutely market-based rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did that change very much at all when you made that determination? From -- Change from our initial assessment? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean our -- we did an estimate early on and there was not -- because we have some experience since we're already in that market we got a pretty good idea what the rates were.
So there was not a material change in the rates at all there.
The mark rates are pretty -- they're pretty transparent.
At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.