Good morning ladies and gentlemen thank you all for joining and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your coordinator for today.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations for opening remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; Dan Romasko Executive Vice President of Operations and Scott Spendlove the Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosures and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause the results to differ from our expectations.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning and thanks for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and Scott will go over some of the details of results in a moment but I'm going to start with an overview of the highlights for the third quarter.
Despite a challenging margin environment during the quarter we delivered net income of $0.72 per diluted share.
These results include earnings of $0.26 per diluted share related to the sale and discontinued operation of our Hawaii business.
Net earnings from continuing operations are $0.46 per diluted share or $0.44 excluding special items.
The Tesoro Index in the third quarter averaged about $8.50 per barrel down over $8 per barrel relative to a year ago or about $6.50 compared to the second quarter of this year.
The company's realized gross margin was $9.22 per barrel for the quarter.
For the quarter we reported strong utilization rates across all regions with total throughput in the quarter of 863 000 barrels per day or 102% utilization.
The improved utilization and higher throughput drove manufacturing cost per barrel down to $4.76 in the third quarter a reduction of $0.63 per barrel from the second quarter.
Retail fuel sale volumes were up over 120% year-over-year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail gas stations as part of the Los Angeles refining marketing and logistics acquisition on June 1 of this year.
Retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up about 2%.
Our RINs cost were down in the third quarter and we expect those costs to be immaterial in the fourth quarter.
The lower RIN cost reflects both lower prices for RINs in the marketplace and benefits from the Los Angeles refinery acquisition which has increased our capacity to blend renewable biodiesel.
Capital spending for the third quarter was $123 million.
Turnaround spending was $24 million.
We anticipate full year 2013 consolidated capital spending including regulatory maintenance and income projects will now be about $585 million down from our previous guidance of $690 million.
We continue to expect $400 million of turnaround spending for the full year 2013.
The remaining $118 million of turnaround spending will be spent primarily on our California refineries during the fourth quarter.
We repurchased another $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the quarter.
Through the end of October we have purchased an additional $38 million worth of shares bringing total purchases to $440 million or about 88% of the $500 million authorization.
Yesterday the Board of Directors increased the existing $500 million share repurchase program to $1 billion and declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share further demonstrating our commitment to financial discipline and returning value to our shareholders.
We ended the third quarter with nearly $1.5 billion of cash a build up over $1 billion during the quarter.
Most of the build was driven by proceeds from the sale of the Hawaii business and reductions in working capital.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter we repaid $500 million of the $1.2 billion of interim borrowings used to fund the Los Angeles acquisition taking Tesoro's leverage excluding Tesoro Logistics to 31% pro forma for September 30.
The activities and results of the third quarter truly reflect our commitment to our strategic priorities.
The sale of the Hawaii business to Hawaii Pacific Energy a wholly-owned subsidiary of Par Petroleum was a strategic exit from low return assets in Hawaii.
With the sale we have effectively reallocated $325 million of net working capital to the higher return in more strategic Los Angeles assets.
We continue to pursue opportunities to increase our capacity to run advantage crude oil throughout our system and we realized continued improvements there in the third quarter as well.
We delivered approximately 50 000 barrels per day of Bakken crude oil to our Anacortes Washington refinery through the Tesoro Logistics rail offloading facility.
We also started taking up to 3 unit trains a month of Bakken crude oil into our Martinez refinery through a third-party facility adding to the manifest rail cars we've already been delivering to that refinery.
With the addition of these unit trains we have the capacity to deliver nearly 350 000 barrels per month of Bakken crude oil into our Martinez California refinery.
Our joint venture with Savage to build a 280 000-barrel per day rail offloading facility at the Port of Vancouver Washington has moved into the permitting phase with applications for environmental permits being submitted in August.
We continue to expect that facility to be up and operational sometime late next year or early in 2015 and intend to offer it for sale to Tesoro Logistics LP.
In Salt Lake City after completing the first phase of the conversion project in the second quarter this year and ramping up production over the third quarter we now expect to run an average of 17 000 barrels per day of cost advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uinta basin during the fourth quarter.
We optimized the timing of bringing this project online with a turnaround plan and Phase 2 of this project is now expected to be completed during the end of the first quarter to the beginning of the second quarter of 2015 taking total runs of the cost advantage waxy crude oil to 22 000 barrels per day increasing our total throughput capacity by 4 000 barrels per day and improving overall clean product yields.
There is no change to prior estimates of the total project EBITDA of $100 million per year or the total cost of $275 million.
On the clean product side we also enjoyed the first full quarter's contribution from the expansion of the diesel desulfurization unit at our Mandan refinery increasing our ability to produce additional higher-valued products.
The expansion allowed us to increase overall throughput rates at the refinery and distillate production increased by over 25% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
This project has performed better than our expectations during the third quarter as evidenced by the strong capture rate reported in our Mid-Continent region.
Turning to the recent acquisition of the integrated Los Angeles refining marketing and logistics business.
We are extremely pleased with the operating performance of the Los Angeles refinery and the integration is going very well.
The synergies we anticipated prior to close appear to be even greater than we originally thought.
We plan on providing a full update of our expectations for synergy sources amounts and timing at our Analyst Day meeting in New York on December 10.
We continue to progress the sale of nearly all of the remaining logistics assets at Los Angeles to TLLP and now expect the value of those assets to sell in the range of $600 million to $700 million.
Combined with the proceeds of $640 million from the initial sale of logistics assets the second sale will take total proceeds to almost $1.3 billion more than the $1.1 billion we paid for the refining marketing and logistics assets at the close on June 1.
We expect to use some of the proceeds to further reduce debt and drive leverage back down under 30% returning our balance sheet to the same position of strength we enjoyed prior to the Los Angeles acquisition and doing so in less than a year after closing.
Using TLLP's lower cost of capital to fund more than half of the Los Angeles acquisition drives value to our Tesoro shareholders.
You can see from all we've done this year that we are driving significant value from our existing asset base and optimizing our portfolio of assets and we continue to look for and identify new ways to grow the value of our business.
Before I turn the call over to Scott let me comment briefly on Tesoro Logistics High Plains pipeline incident in North Dakota.
TLLP reported that Tesoro High Plains pipeline experienced an approximate 20 000-barrel release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga North Dakota.
TLLP recently restarted that section of the pipeline and continues to work with the landowner regulators local state and federal government officials to remediate the site and investigate the incident.
The incident did not impact crude oil supply to our Mandan or Anacortes refineries.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Scott Spendlove our CFO for a more detailed discussion of our quarterly results and to provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
Scott? Thanks Greg.
As we reported last night third quarter net income from continuing operations was $64 million or $0.46 per diluted share.
Adjusted for special items we reported an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $60 million or $0.44 per diluted share.
Special items that we're excluding from the quarterly results include: after tax net income of $0.14 per diluted share related to the reversal of a legal reserve around Alaska pipeline tariffs and proceeds from business interruption insurance in Anacortes and expenses of about $0.12 per diluted share related to integration costs and a noncash inventory valuation adjusted -- adjustment related to the 2 acquisitions we closed during the second quarter.
That compares to net income from continuing operations in the third quarter last year of $259 million or $1.82 per diluted share.
Our corporate and unallocated costs for the third quarter of 2013 on a pre-tax basis were $52 million before $6 million of corporate depreciation and excluding a benefit of $21 million in noncash stock-based compensation and $14 million of integration cost that I just mentioned.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of about $1.5 billion an increase of $1.1 billion for the quarter.
Sources of cash included adjusted EBITDA of about $308 million changes in working capital of $531 million and proceeds of $514 million for the sale of our Hawaii operations.
The changes in working capital were primarily related to the Los Angeles acquisition offsetting the significant use of working capital we experienced in the second quarter related to the acquisition of the timing of cargo payments and receipts worked through our cash conversion cycle.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $150 million in the quarter shareholder distributions and share buybacks of $150 million and cash interest and taxes of about $15 million.
At the end of the third quarter we had additional revolving credit capacity of about $1.5 billion on the corporate revolver and $575 million on the Tesoro Logistics revolver.
Tesoro's total debt to total capitalization excluding Tesoro Logistics debt at the end of the third quarter was 36%.
Subsequent to the end of the third quarter the company repaid $500 million of the $1.2 billion of short-term borrowings related to the Los Angeles acquisition.
We now have approximately $2 billion available on our revolving credit facility post this debt reduction.
Following the debt repayment total Tesoro debt was $1.97 billion or approximately 31% of total capitalization pro forma for the end of the third quarter of 2013.
Tesoro Logistics debt totaled $909 million at the end of the third quarter.
Turning to the fourth quarter and guidance.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 480 to 500 in the California region 155 to 165 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows: $6 to $6.25 in the California region $4 to $4.25 in the Pacific Northwest and $3.60 to $3.85 in the Mid-Continent.
Our depreciation for refining is estimated at $120 million going forward.
Additional fourth quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $72 million and interest expense before interest income of $44 million.
Our corporate expense guidance includes the impact of integration costs as well as some one-time restructuring costs.
Our expected quarterly run rate for corporate expense is in the range of $55 million to $60 million going forward.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Greg for closing comments.
Greg? Thanks Scott.
We are pleased with the progress of several of our major initiatives.
Additionally with the $500 million in debt reductions previously discussed and the sale of the majority of the remaining Los Angeles logistics assets to TLLP we look forward to returning Tesoro's balance sheet to the same strong position as prior to the Los Angeles acquisition.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and we'll continue to prioritize investing in high return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and delevering our balance sheet.
We look forward to further updating you in December at our Analyst Day around the progress with the Los Angeles acquisition and related synergies.
And with that Dan Scott and I will now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question is from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
I think there was -- reported that Trans Mountain had some flow reductions during 3Q that may have impacted your Syncrude deliveries at Anacortes.
Could you talk about what level of Syncrude interruption you saw in 3Q and remind us what that potential is at Anacortes for 4Q? Yes.
Dan why don't you address that question please? Jeff we're -- Jeff we're similar to all the shippers on Trans Mountain and we've previously discussed our Canadian shipments in the 30% to 40% range and we're at the bottom end of that range now.
Third quarter did see an impact with that.
We'll still stay near the bottom of that range for the fourth quarter potentially a bit better.
Research Division</strong> And so those -- that outages is continuing through the 4Q? It's not so much now.
It's just its overall pressure restriction and yes it's continuing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly ANS processing has softened a bit.
It's still for a medium sour crude trading well above LLS and WTI some other light crudes in the U.S.
With the incremental Bakken moving by rail to the Pacific Northwest and California how do you see ANS pricing evolving over time? Do you see it shifting towards something more similar to its quality? Yes it's a good question Jeff.
I think our belief is that it's -- we continue our efforts to move more of the crudes from the Mid-Continent out to the West Coast.
That it will -- ANS will price more competitively relative to those crudes which will put downward pressure on it.
Research Division</strong> Based on ANS quality what kind of incremental detriment do you think is possible? What we can see and what we've said in the past at least relative to Anacortes is that our yield advantage at Anacortes running Bakken crude relative to ANS is in the $3 per $5 per barrel range.
That's on our specific refinery.
Our next question is from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could -- just a couple of things.
On the West Coast obviously we had a bit of a sloppy market in the third quarter.
Our understanding anyway is that a bunch of refineries were running extremely well yourselves included.
So how are things looking in your respect I guess as you look forward over the next like 3 to 6 months? I mean obviously I don't expect you to give specifics on competitor downtime but is what we saw in Q3 in your mind unusual? And if so would you expect to see that for one of a better word sloppiness tighten up a little bit? And I'm curious if there's any change in the export dynamics on the product side that you've seen in the West Coast? And I've got a follow-up please.
Yes Doug let me take that.
I'll start with the export market.
If you have looked at the AEI [ph] data which probably you have you'll noticed that so far in the third quarter the data would show that we're about 200 000 barrels a day export off of the West Coast which is above 80 000 barrels a day higher than we've seen historically.
We've not provided specific guidance on the level of participation from Tesoro but we are a participant in that market.
As far as the level of run rates in the West Coast during the third quarter and whether that's unusual I think relative to the last few years it clearly has been unusual.
We continue to run well and expect to do so for the next several quarters.
The good news is that we've got a strong marketing integration to place our product into the market and you saw that show up in a strong marketing performance for the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great appreciate that.
My follow-up I guess is another big picture question.
But yesterday we heard Holly talk about the risk of product placing in the Mid-Continent start to move towards LLS.
I'm not sure I'm entirely convinced by that risk as they followed that later on last night by saying that there was no evidence of product moving into that market.
I'm just curious if you could give your perspectives as we see Gulf Coast crude advantage really start to weighting out here how do you see the risk of product box up into what's been a very advantaged market for you guys? And I'll leave it at that.
Doug our review has been that product prices would price relative to brand as you look at the global system of being able to move products around the world and that Brent would set the pricing for that.
I guess it is possible that in local markets that you could see times when that doesn't reflect it because of being inland or that.
But we've tended to believe that prices will still price off a Brent for products.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Sankey Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you just to the extent that you're prepared to do that talk a little bit more about the synergy wins that you're having in California could you talk about where that's going to leave you on the cost curve? And in that context could you talk about how you see the California market developing from here? And finally could you talk about how much of the current extreme discounts in the Bakken that you are going to be seeing through your system given that we're so different today than we were in Q3? Paul back on California the -- I mean we're about a month away from being able to give a very clear picture of what we will deliver in California as a result of the acquisition but maybe just a few preliminary comments.
One is that we are -- we have reinforced our initial view that the synergies that we originally thought are absolutely there.
And we're excited that actually as we've gotten more into it that potential opportunity is greater than what we thought and we'll go over all the details of that.
So that to us is very encouraging because if you look at what we said all along the synergies relative to the EBITDA the business based upon our analysis at using 2011 as a year were pretty significant.
So when we come out and share more of that I think everyone will be -- when we can be more clear about what they are will see the real value of the acquisition.
And the second thing is is that as part of those synergies we are going to have an opportunity to further improve our cost structure in California which we'll lay out in December also which will be added further advantage to our system in California.
So it's -- to be honest with you it's all very very good news.
The last thing you asked about kind of the overall marketplace in California.
But when we looked at making this acquisition back in 2012 the margins the gross margins using like the LA crack spread for California had been relatively stable.
And our projections were that it would stay that way on a go-forward basis and that -- since that time the economy and things have improved out there and the fundamentals have gotten a little bit better.
So we're pretty confident with the level of where we made the acquisition will continue to be a good basis for the crack spreads.
The more important thing is is that all the synergies and benefits it will drive we believe will be additive to the value capture and we'll show that in December.
Regarding Bakken the Bakken prices have been very very attractive and we'll capture that benefit in the fourth quarter.
You can see what they've been what's published in the market in that and it's been a very attractive differential so far.
And we're running -- our Bakken refineries' running -- excuse me Mandan refinery is running 100%.
We have taken quantities of Bakken to Anacortes like we said in the -- just in the comments here.
So we'll reap those benefits.
Research Division</strong> Greg the -- I mean obviously the Bakken differential is essentially related to oversupply? Right.
The next question is from the line of Robert Kessler Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could specify a little bit the change in CapEx and what that relates to? I think you bumped it up last quarter in part on the Carson deal and now it's come back down.
Is that just simple timing around the expenditures there? Yes maybe I'll take that one.
The -- we did find opportunities to both reduce capital spending as well as shift some of it into future period where it was more efficient to spend.
Obviously in hindsight that would have been better to -- had that information where -- when we were communicating at the end of the second quarter but nevertheless it's a good new story for us.
And both of those -- and the moves on the capital both the elimination and the deferrals were done in a manner that don't impact reliability or EBITDA generation.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Port of Vancouver if I'm detecting a kind of a slight slippage in timing.
You're now throwing out the possibility of an early 2015 start.
Is that just simple kind of delays related to permitting or anything else going on there? Yes the permitting process in the State of Washington we believe is going to be pretty firm around about a 1 year period of time and originally where we thought maybe we'd be able to pick up a little bit of time.
Because of our experience in Anacortes we're not as confident that we can gain any time during that 1 year period.
So as we stated earlier we submitted all of the permits in August and we expect that to take until about August of 2014.
And then the construction time to build the tanks in that we're going to work as hard as we can to come up at the end of '14 but we have that window at late '14 early '15.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have you decided how much of the tankage will be a heavier barrel capability versus light and a general split on throughput volumes for say a Canadian heavy barrel coming through as opposed to Bakken? The facility is an ideal facility with great efficiency and the environmental standards in that then we'll have tremendous flexibility to deliver the types of crudes that the marketplace needs as we go in there both from a Tesoro standpoint since we've already made a commitment to it but also to the other customers of using the facility.
So we'll be very flexible.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you've got good numbers as far as the rail cost by comp over from the Bakken to Anacortes.
What about the Canadian heavy rail cost? Any thoughts for what it costs to come down from Alberta? Nope not at this time.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Cheng of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question Scott the working capital benefits on Carson I presume it's on the inventory payable that now you start to [indiscernible].
Is that pretty much done or that we have more room for the payable on the crude to go up and become a source of fund in the fourth quarter? No that's pretty well done now Paul.
Research Division</strong> That's done okay.
And just want to -- I think that I know the answer but just want to make sure.
In -- when we're looking at your Tesoro Index your Pacific Northwest is that only based on ANS or that's also built in into either Bakken or the Canadian light sweet? Maybe I'll take that one Paul.
It's based on about 1/3 WTI and 2/3 ANS.
Research Division</strong> So that means that given the Canadian light sweet to WTI discount have widened probably by say call it $8 to $10 versus the third quarter level.
So that by itself would suggest that the Pacific Northwest probably understate or that the capture rate will be increased by quite a substantial amount of dollar per barrel? And also that this is not -- you haven't factored into any Bakken -- or in Bakken to ANS? Look like it has improved by about $9 to $10.
Both of those are correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the Mid-Continent I believe you are just using the WTI right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And so the degree of that Bakken the WTI or Wyoming street to WTI both of them has increased by somewhere in the $5 to $6 that we should see a pretty substantial improvement in terms of the capture rate? That is also correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything in the fourth quarter that we should be aware that not allowing you to capture that? Not in the Mid-Continent nor in the Pacific Northwest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Dave in the - when you buy Bakken do you buy it at the spot or that you buy it one month out? I'm sorry I didn't understand that question.
Research Division</strong> When you purchase Bakken should we look at it as a spot price or that it would be a delivery month and that it will be 1 month out? It's a mix.
The -- we do have a trade purchase month impact in the DC in the pricing so you do see some of that but actually pricing practices are a mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this I think -- Greg I have to apologize.
When will you say you're now running -- you have the capability to add 3 unit train a month to Golden Eagle? And you're saying that that will give you 350 000-barrel per day or that I probably catch the number wrong.
So can you just repeat for me? Right.
Yes Paul.
What we said was we can deliver 3 unit trains per month into the Martinez or Golden Eagle refinery as well as some additional manifest cars that we do which allows us to kind of maximize the use of our facilities.
And as a result of that it's 350 000 barrels per month at the present time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
350 000 barrel per month? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And can you tell us that -- what was the Bakken oil you run in Golden Eagle in the third quarter and what is the expectation in the fourth quarter? The Bakken Eagle or Golden Eagle Paul actually it's your conference it's the first time we took our first unit train in with the day of your conference in September.
So it really just started and it's just ramping up.
So I think looking forward that level of crude supply the 350 000 is a good number to use per month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that I apologize if you already said that when you expect the second cost on asset drop-down to happen? We haven't stated all along.
We said that we would do it in the -- within the first year but we're making very good progress to do this second drop-down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a final one in Carson and can you tell us that -- what is your crude slate? Is there any change already? The crude slate it's only been a few months and so the crude slate has stayed relatively comparable.
We are doing a little bit of crude substitution from what we originally started but nothing material at this point in time as we continue to work through our future crude supply.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a preliminary budget for 2014 given that you have shift some of the money in 2013 for CapEx -- also CapEx? Our capital budget Paul we're less than a month away and we'll be very clear about what we plan to do for 2014.
So let's just wait until we get there and we'll go over the capital budget and turnaround budget as part of our presentation at that point in time.
Next question is from the line of Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Let me just do a quick follow-up on the West Coast market commentary.
Greg I mean given the forecast for lower planned turns or and Richmond back online in 2014 do you expect the need for -- to see increased West Coast exports to clear the market or are you more -- are you optimistic on demand or pessimistic on run rate? Any thoughts there would be helpful.
I think relative to exports Dan kind of framed up the exports when he stated that they are actually stronger than they had been for some time there for a while.
Our view is that the exports off the West Coast have limited markets that they can reach relative to like the Gulf Coast.
And so the range of what we've seen on exports off the West Coast we expect stay in that range and we don't see any substantial changes to the exports off of there.
The West Coast market in general if you look at where just using the LA crack spread as kind of a benchmark of where the market's been.
I mean the crack spread has stayed reasonably good in LA so far.
On October it was $14 $15 month-to-date it's a little over $14.
And in that $14 range for crack spreads for LA is kind of not a bad crack spread and that's relative to ANS and we'll see what happens to ANS prices.
That's one of the prior questions asked on a go-forward basis.
So our view is that the fundamentals in California are improving a little bit from what they were earlier from a demand standpoint in that and we'll just see how the market shapes up.
Research Division</strong> Can you comment if you're offline at all in October in Los Angeles? Yes in my comments I did state that we are spending about a little over $100 million on doing turnaround work in the state of California during the fourth quarter.
So we do have downtime in California yes.
Our next question is from the line of Sam Margolin of Cowen and Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> My assistant gone over -- I guess I just want to circle back to that DDU in Mandan because it looks like it really made a pretty significant impact.
Is there anything you could share with respect to contribution or break it out a little bit? The out-performance in that region is pretty stark compared to others who have reported already.
Yes.
I'll let Dan make some comments on that.
Yes.
Maybe the simplest way to do that calculation is look at the gasoline diesel differential on approximately 4 000 to 5 000 barrels a day of swing we made between those 2 products.
And then dependent upon what the market is in your forecast of where it's going to be you can get a good view of what the economics were.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And yet it's all -- I'm assuming it's all sort of local diesel demand just from the other energy batch around the area or...
Yes that's mostly true.
The short in North Dakota on diesel is pretty significant and so -- and we're really quite close to where the demand is.
So we actually sell the vast majority of our diesel out of the Mandan area export very little out of the state.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you and forgive me.
I may have missed this but we've talked about Bakken differentials expanding pretty meaningfully here.
Have you guys made a determination about the expansion at the Vancouver rail terminal? Or are we still thinking about 125 000 barrels a day for the first phase? Yes.
Sam the facility will be permitted to run up to the 280 000 barrels a day or so that we've said and we haven't gone to the market to make access of that available to other parties yet but we'll make a determination of what that capacity will be at the facility when we bring it online.
It's -- there's not a lot of work to do to get it up to the 280 000 barrels a day.
So we'll see what the market demand is and make that decision accordingly.
Our next question is from the line of Ed Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just some questions on the drop downs.
I think you said $600 million to $700 million more from the Carson acquisition? Was that -- did I hear that correct? Yes you did.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then you've got obviously the potential in the Pacific Northwest as those assets get to a point where they can be dropped down.
But outside of those 2 main sources of drop-downs can you just remind us what else potentially could be dropped down into an MLP over time? We have a fair amount of other assets that we've identified that we will be able to drop down over time and we haven't gone out and put values on those assets now.
But throughout our system actually there's a fair amount of additional drop-down activity Ed that we'll be doing over the next 2 or 3 years.
Research Division</strong> And then I think you may have said this.
But on working capital you feel you've done most of the adjustments in terms of freeing up working capital at this point from a balance sheet perspective? Scott asked the question -- answered the question relative to Carson as we work through the cash conversion cycle and that we feel a lot better now after the initial acquisition and where we've gone as it's kind of stabilized now.
So we feel pretty good pending any changes in crude slate that we may do in the future which could change it again.
Research Division</strong> And so I mean obviously the balance sheet gets de-levered and then you've been pretty singled on dividends and buybacks but...
Yes.
Research Division</strong> But I guess we'll get an update once the balance sheet comes back.
But I mean is there any thought process here to be even more aggressive on the buyback? We'll continue to follow our approach that we've used for the last few years here and that's we'll continue to identify high return capital projects that strengthen our competitive position in the markets and allocate capital to those projects.
We will continue to maintain that competitive dividend relative to our peers.
We will also look to get our -- we've always targeted to be less than 30% leverage in our balance sheet and we'll continue to be focused on that and finally we will then return cash to shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a final smaller one.
Just on California.
Obviously a really strong volumes in the third quarter and you've given guidance $480 million to $500 million for Q4.
You mentioned some turnarounds but maybe is there any sort of volume upward bias in terms of the Carson asset that perhaps we're not picking up? Or is it just the turnaround activity that's causing the drop and $5.57 is sort of a more peak type third quarter activity level? Let me take that one.
Third quarter is an example of a full run rate for the California assets and what you're seeing in the fourth quarter is on the rate reduction is turnaround related.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And any de-bottlenecking potential that you've identified since or will that be a subject for the December Analyst Meeting? That will be a subject for the December Analyst Meeting although that would be contrary to what we've discussed before on synergy.
Our view is really driven towards yield optimization cost improvement those opportunities.
Our next question is from the line of Roger Read Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe a couple of things that haven't been pounded on just yet.
Number one exports anything new to report there? And then as you think about maybe bringing more of the Bakken barrels either by manifest delivery now or once you get Port of Vancouver up and running where you think some of those volumes could go? Well the exports just to kind of restate the comments on exports is the exports off the West Coast continue to be strong and they were particularly strong during the third quarter as Dan mentioned earlier.
And like we have always said is that exports are a part of how we manage our system on the West Coast and that we continue to be a participant in the export market and forward -- as we look forward we don't see any real changes in that export activity.
So it looks promising.
Regarding the ability to move Mid-Continent crude oils to the West Coast.
I mean we're continuing to work on doing that.
And throughout our whole refinery system on the West Coast we have the capability to run additional Bakken crude oils probably with the exception of our -- of the Wilmington part of the Los Angeles refinery.
Now that we've combined those -- the 2 facilities into 1 that is a heavy crude processing refinery.
But across the whole West coast system from the Carson facility all the way to Kenai we can run additional Bakken crude oil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe a slightly more specific way to ask the question.
Earlier you mentioned that you get a definite uplift $3 to $5 a barrel in Anacortes when you run the Bakken barrel which obviously wouldn't...
On yield.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry yield.
So it obviously makes it a more competitive unit.
Are you seeing that in California? And should we think about that as making those units more competitive in terms of export potential? Or just in a sense of fighting off imports into the region and keeping you more consistently profitable? We'll see opportunities to get enhanced yield benefits by running the Bakken crude relative to the other crudes that we run on the West Coast.
That's accurate.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would it be as dramatic as what you see in Anacortes or not given the complexity of those units? Anacortes is probably like the best case but it's going to be in the ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question on the CapEx commentary obviously the deferrals out of '14 lowering the CapEx should we think about as a preliminary thought process '15 has to include that and so we're probably thinking of the old '14 number being more like a reasonable expectation for '15.
I know you're not in the process of giving a firm number but just in general trying to think about future numbers.
Right.
Well first let me just clarify.
We moved capital out of '13 into '14 and the best thing to do is when we come out in December we can get a very clear picture what our capital requirements are for both our sustaining capital which is our regulatory maintenance and also our income capital which will tie in with what we're trying to do in California in that so it will all fit together when we talk about it in December.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Matthew Blair of Macquarie.
On the 3 unit trains a month to Martinez just curious what the limiting factor is here.
And do you have the ability to ramp this up going forward? Limiting factor is just the overall delivery system.
It's a -- we use a third party facility and it's pretty much maxed out of that rate by the way that we have to get the crude into the facility.
So this was a way on an interim basis until we get Port of Vancouver running to deliver Bakken crude oil into Northern California.
Okay.
And then I think as part of the Carson deal you plan to sell some excess real estate.
Did that occur in the third quarter? And what were the proceeds there? Some of that real estate was sold prior to the actual closing because the closing took longer than we had anticipated and there is a small amount of remaining real estate that we haven't determined what we'll do with yet so it's a little bit of both.
Okay.
And then finally just on the Port of Vancouver rail terminal are you in the process of acquiring new railcars for the facility? And I guess could you just give some comments there? Yes.
Our -- I mean we balance our needs for our delivery system with railcars and we have made commitments to receive some additional railcars to meet our requirements both in the Anacortes refinery as well as the Port of Vancouver but we also try to drive a very efficient system.
It's not a matter of having lots and lots of railcars.
It's using the railcars that you have because they add a cost to your system.
So we have a very efficient delivery system.
Our next question is from Mohit Bhardwaj of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a question on Pacific Northwest utilization.
182 000 barrels per day in third quarter is as high as you guys have run in the last 5 years and the guidance that you've given for the fourth quarter is obviously lower than that.
So I just wanted to see what your thought process is over there and what's the maximum you could do and what you would like to run those assets at? Yes let me take that one.
Third quarter was a full utilization of both refineries in the Pacific Northwest.
The fourth quarter reduction acknowledges the demand drop-off in Alaska.
So that's what you're seeing there.
As far as that -- the rate we saw in the third quarter relative to prior quarters and years.
Earlier in the year when we completed the turnaround in Anacortes we removed some constraints in the crude unit itself that allowed us to run the -- return the facility to its full throughput capabilities.
Research Division</strong> And one final one on RINs Greg this is the first time you actually mentioned it.
You've always maintained that you've been pretty well protected as far as RINs are concerned.
Just if you can give an idea what your cost was during this year and as you said it's going to be insignificant in the fourth quarter but just to give us an idea of what it was in 2013? If you look at our overall system there's 3 or 4 things that you have to consider: one which we've said in the past is that as a company from a gasoline standpoint we're about 85% integrated.
So we market about 85% of our gasoline to customers where the blend -- where we're bending.
So from a gasoline exposure standpoint it's relatively limited.
That's the first thing.
The second thing is that we also as we've talked about here 2 or 3 times we export off of the West Coast both gasoline and diesel which also lessens our need for RINs and that export amount for us has been relatively stable over the last years and we expect it to stay the same way so that lessens it.
And really the final thing is that we went into 2013 with a long position in RINs which helped us out.
So from an overall cost standpoint it wasn't an impact for Tesoro for 2013 because of the way we positioned our business.
We have a question from the line of Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Doug brought up the question earlier on Mid-Continent product pricing whether or not it's tied to Brent or LLS.
It appears recent product prices in the Mid-Continent have been more highly correlated with LLS than with Brent.
Do you view that as a temporary situation or a seasonal situation? How do you think about that? Seasonal at the present time Jeff.
I mean we -- particularly as we look at the markets in that and what we see happening is with the data that's available to us it's just been seasonal so far.
But we'll have to stay -- monitor and see what happens as we go forward.
But our belief has always been that product prices would trade off of Brent or relative -- I mean trade relative to Brent.
Research Division</strong> Global prices? Yes.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your question-and-answer session.
Thank you for participating and you may now disconnect your lines.
Have a good day.
Thank you.