Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 4 2013 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Juliann and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2013 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause the results to differ from our expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
You have our earnings release and I will go over the details of the results and provide guidance then Greg will review 2013 and offer some comments on 2014 and beyond.
Yesterday we reported for the full year 2013 net income from continuing operations of $392 million or $2.85 per diluted share versus $876 million or $6.20 per diluted share for the full year of 2012.
Excluding special items for the full year 2013 the company earned net income from continuing operations of $386 million or $2.81 per diluted share versus an adjusted net income from continuing operations of $922 million or $6.52 per diluted share for the full year 2012.
For the full year 2013 the results from discontinued operations included income of $20 million from our divested Hawaii business versus a loss of $133 million for the full year 2012.
The fourth quarter 2013 results include after tax expense of $0.07 per diluted share related integration cost associated with the completion of our 2013 acquisitions.
For the fourth quarter we reported a net loss from continuing operations of $4 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
Excluding special items net earnings from continuing operations were $5 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
That compares to net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter last year of $193 million or $1.38 per diluted share excluding special items.
Before I begin to go through the details of our earnings I want to take a minute to describe some changes in how we will be reporting results going forward.
With the rapid growth of Tesoro Logistics over the last few years the partnership is now of such a size that Tesoro will begin reporting Tesoro Logistics as a standalone operating segment within our results.
Previously Tesoro Logistics operating results were consolidated into our refining segment.
The result would be a lower reported gross margin in the refining segment though total results will be unaffected by the change.
As part of the consolidation process cost incurred in the refining segment for transportation and term lease services provided by TLLP were offset by the corresponding revenues to TLLP.
This change may require you to modify your models and how you look at the historical capture rates and other aspects of our financials.
I encourage you work closely with our investor relations department to understand these changes.
We have also added supplemental material on our website at tsocorp.com so you can compare previously reported historical information with the revised financial disclosure.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial statements will be presented on the new basis and will include as usual comparative results to 2012 and 2011.
Despite a disappointing headline number our fourth quarter results on a region-by-region basis were inline with what we expected with some regions seeing very strong capture rates.
Fourth quarter 2013 results were negatively impacted by very weak retail marketing margins in December and the valuation of a portion of our foreign crude oil inventory for our California refining system.
Excluding that inventory impact our California capture rate was in line with expectations especially when you consider the turnaround activity that occurred in the quarter.
Beyond that it's worth noting that our fourth quarter results also include $40 million in variable stock-based compensation expense related to a $15 run up in our share price during the quarter.
The Tesoro Index in the fourth quarter averaged $7.65 per barrel down over $4.75 per barrel relative to a year ago and down about $0.75 per barrel compared to the third quarter of this year.
The company's realized gross margin was $9.45 per barrel for the fourth quarter up slightly from the $8.50 per barrel reported for the third quarter.
Despite the lower Tesoro Index in the fourth quarter the company realized a higher gross margin as Mid-Continent and Canadian crude oil discounts to WTI favorably impacted capture rate in the Pacific Northwest and the Mid-Continent regions.
In fact the Pacific Northwest had a gross refining margin of $10.94 per barrel which was $4.60 over the Index reflecting the best dollar per barrel capture rate over the Index in the last three years.
And as I said on the West Coast adjusted for the foreign inventory valuation impact California's capture rate was inline with our expectation after factoring in the heavy turnaround work done in the first half of the quarter.
For the quarter we reported total throughput of 786 000 barrels per day or 92% utilization.
The lower throughput relative to the third quarter was primarily due to California turnaround activity which drove total company manufacturing cost per barrel up to $5.39 per barrel in the fourth quarter an increase of $0.63 per barrel from the third quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were up over 120% year-over-year and retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year reflecting the addition of 835 high-volume ARCO retail stations as part of the June 1 Los Angeles acquisition.
Same store fuel sales during the fourth quarter and the full year 2013 were up about 2% versus each of the prior periods.
Retail fuel margins in the fourth quarter were $0.09 per gallon down $0.03 per gallon relative to the third quarter.
Our RINs cost were immaterial during the fourth quarter and we expect those costs to again be immaterial in the first quarter.
Capital spending for the full year of 2013 was $558 million which includes $79 million of Tesoro Logistics self-funded capital spend.
Consistent with guidance given at our annual analyst conference in December the company currently expects full year 2014 capital spending of approximately $670 million excluding Tesoro Logistics capital spending of approximately $160 million.
Turnaround expenditures for 2013 were $360 million and the company expects full year 2014 turnaround expenses to be about $205 million.
We do have some minor turnaround activity scheduled in the first quarter the majority of which is at our California refinery.
We repurchased $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the fourth quarter bringing total purchases under the program to $500 million or half of the $1 billion authorized.
For the full year 2013 we repurchased a total of 8.3 million shares.
This represents nearly 6% of the shares that were outstanding at the end of 2012.
Our corporate and unallocated cost for the fourth quarter of 2013 on a pretax basis were $40 million excluding $5 million in corporate depreciation $40 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $15 million of integration costs.
As of the end of 2013 we have completed the majority of integration work related to the new asset and don’t expect to report additional integration cost going forward.
We incurred total integration cost of $62 million for 2013.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of over $1.2 billion a use of $250 million for the quarter.
Sources of cash during the quarter included adjusted EBITDA of about $180 million changes in working capital of $190 million and proceeds from TLLP debt and equity offerings of about $560 million.
Uses of cash included capital and turnaround spending of about $245 million debt repayments of $800 million shareholder distributions and share buybacks of about $150 million and cash interest and taxes of about $40 million.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had excess revolving credit capacity of over $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and the full $575 million was available to us on the TLLP revolver.
During the fourth quarter the company repaid $800 million of the $1.2 billion in borrowings related to the Los Angeles acquisition.
At the end of the fourth quarter total debt outstanding was $2.8 billion Tesoro Corporation's debt totaled just under $1.7 billion and Tesoro Logistics debt totaled about $1.2 billion.
Tesoro's total debt to total cap excluding TLLP at the end of the fourth quarter was 28%.
Turning to the first quarter and guidance.
We saw very attractive crude oil differentials across our region during the fourth quarter and while not as high as they have been we still expect to benefit from wider crude oil differentials as we move into the first quarter of this year.
In addition the later part of 2013 saw low turnaround activity and high refinery utilization on the West Coast.
As we move into the first and second quarters of this year we expect to see higher plant turnaround and maintenance activity on the West Coast which we expect will result in a stronger margin environment.
And in fact we are starting to see that with California crack spreads recently widening to $13 to $15 per barrel and in fact today are over $16.50 a barrel.
For specific guidance we estimate throughput to be in thousands in barrels per day.
500 to 520 in the California region 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest and 120 to 130 in the Mid-con.
Manufacturing cost guidance for this quarter in dollars per barrel is as follows.
$6.50 to $6.75 in the California region $4.05 to $4.30 in the Pacific Northwest and $3.75 to $4 per barrel in the Midcontinent region.
Note that while guidance for manufacturing cost per barrel in the California region is above what you would typically expect it's been impacted by higher natural gas price expectation and lower turnaround related throughput during the quarter.
Normalized for those two things our guidance would be in the $5.75 to $6 per barrel range.
Our depreciation for refining is expected to be $105 million.
This excludes depreciation of $15 million for Tesoro Logistics as this segment will be reported separately.
Additional first quarter guidance items include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $60 million and interest expense before interest income of about $44 million.
And with that I will turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Scott.
As I look back over 2013 it was a year of important strategic accomplishments for the company.
We have created a strong foundation by focusing on our strategic priority and the company is well positioned to create significant value.
We have delivered on several key initiatives in 2013 that I want to take a moment to reflect upon.
The first and the largest is the completion of the Los Angles acquisition creating a platform to create a world scale refining and marketing complex on the West Coast.
As a part of the Los Angeles acquisition we completed the sale of $1.3 billion of assets to Tesoro Logistics positioning the partnership as a premier logistics provider in the high demand Southern California market.
In Salt Lake City we completed the first stage of the conversion project in the second quarter and have increased our ability to throughput cost advantaged waxy crude oil Uinta basin to nearly 17 000 barrels per day.
In Mandan we completed the expansion of the DDU project in the second quarter and have increased not just our diesel yields but total throughput capacity to 71 000 barrels per day.
Tesoro Logistics completed the acquisition of Northwest Products system adding another key strategic asset to its portfolio.
We introduced the Exxon and Mobil brands into our retail portfolio which enables us to increase our integration where we did not have a premium brand to offer our customers.
We completed the sale of our Hawaii business which was a strategic exit from a low returning asset.
This allowed us to reallocate $325 million of capital employed into higher return and more strategic assets.
As evident through all that we have accomplished we continue to drive significant value from our existing asset base and the optimization of our portfolio.
We continuously look for and identify new ways to grow the value of our business.
These activities above truly reflect our commitment to our strategic priority and our focus on maintaining and improving the competitive position of the company.
We are also committed to drive continual improvements in our safety and environmental performance.
As I look out into 2014 and beyond the company remains focused on delivering the distinctive performance objective we laid out at the analyst and investor day in December.
The first is to capture the significantly improved California synergies.
We have accelerated the pace of delivery and now expect to achieve the originally estimated improvement of $215 million in the second full year.
The update synergy estimates are now $430 million to $490 million of EBITDA by 2017 as we complete the full integration of the two facilities.
We are very pleased with the operating performance of the Los Angeles refinery and the integration continues to go extremely well.
The second area is our continued focus on enhancing our gross margin.
We expect our efforts already completed and those underway will add $140 million to $160 million of annual incremental EBITDA in 2014.
Our primary focus is to increase our capacity to run advantaged crude oil throughout our system.
Our joint venture with Savage to build a 300 000 barrel per day rail offloading facility at the Port of Vancouver Washington is in the permitting phase with applications for environmental permits being submitted in August.
We continue to expect our facilities to be up and operational sometime late this year or early in 2015 and intend to offer it for sale to Tesoro Logistics.
In Salt Lake City with phase one complete we expect run an average of 17 000 barrels per day of cost advantaged waxy crude oil from the Uinta Basin going forward.
Phase 2 of this project is expected to be completed at the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the second quarter of next year taking total runs of the cost advantaged waxy crude to 22 000 barrels per day.
The third area is our continued improvement of the base business.
Our efforts to lower cost in California have delivered highly favorable results as 2013 manufacturing costs were $5.86 per barrel compared to $6.30 in 2012 and $7.54 in 2010.
We still see significant opportunities that exist across the system to continue improving our cost structure while maintaining safe and reliable operations.
The fourth area is our focused effort to grow our logistics business.
In December of 2013 we completed the second sale to TLLP of logistics assets that we acquired from the Los Angles acquisition bringing total sale proceeds to almost $1.3 billion.
2014 will also be the year that TLLP will begin to experience some significant organic growth which is focused around third party revenue with significant capital being spend on organic growth.
As I reflect on the final area of financial discipline I will reiterate some of the highlights.
We ended the year with $1.2 billion in cash and a debt to cap below 28% excluding TLLP even after two major acquisitions.
With everything that we deleveraged his year we did not lose focus on returning cash to shareholders.
We repurchased over $445 million of equity paid out over $120 million of dividend and paid nearly $60 million in distributions from TLLP.
With all of the portfolio changes during the year we clearly demonstrated our determination to maintain financial discipline.
We remain focused on our strategic priority of financial discipline and will continue to prioritize investing in high return capital projects returning cash to shareholders via a strong and competitive dividend buying back shares and deleveraging our balance sheet.
And now we will take questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Greg a couple of things if I may.
First of all the retail margins were weak looks like at least [indiscernible]` numbers are a big part of the mess this quarter.
Can you just talk about the dynamics there? And in the refining capture rate I guess as we look at the impact of the downtime that you incurred in the fourth quarter is there any way to quantify the opportunity cost? And then I've got a follow up please.
Yes thanks Doug.
The first question around retail.
What happened in retail in December in California for about two-thirds of the month there was an inversion in the branded retail price relative to the spot market.
And as a result branded retail prices were below the spot market which resulted in a pretty significant negative impact in retail margins.
That situation has now changed and we are back to normal conditions.
But it had a pretty big impact in December.
The second question on California because our results in Southern California were not very good during the quarter.
And I think there are three points to make there.
One is that as Scott mentioned just briefly here that -- now that we report Tesoro Logistics as a separate reporting segment we have backed out those costs out of our capture rate for California which will take lower our capture rate in California versus the historical captures by around $0.50 to $0.60 a barrel.
So that will lower that capture rate as we report that separately because it was all reported in refining before that.
The second thing is we had a major turnaround in our LA refinery during the fourth quarter.
And that turnaround actually occurred when the crack spreads like the crack spread was in about the $14.25 range.
We came back up in December when the crack spread was about $8.50 a barrel and it has a pretty negative impact on our capture rate there.
And as Scott also mentioned we source barrels for our California system in Panama.
We store and move it across the canal by the pipeline.
And we have those barrels sitting there and those are accounted for on a FIFO basis.
And we had a negative impact with the inventory we held in December going into January which will reverse it was a timing impact.
And that really accounts for the results in California.
Good.
Greg are you able to quantify I don’t know if you have -- I think I missed this in the prepared remarks if you did that.
Can you quantify the impact of the inventory hit in the fourth quarter? Yes.
The inventory hit was probably like $0.30 to $0.35 a barrel on the capture rate.
So about $8 million off the top? And then you have the -- pardon go ahead? About $8 million to $10 million after tax -- sorry $8 million to $10 million just after tax it sounds like? Yes.
About $15 million or so on a pretax basis Doug.
Okay.
And my follow-up just very quickly.
On the rail project obviously there is a lot of chatter about the escalation or at least the apparent escalation in the instance and what that might mean for permitting on a go forward basis.
Can you just talk about how you feel that Tesoro is positioned as it relates to current rail legislation the quality of your railcars and basically your ability to get this thing done.
and I will leave it there? Thanks.
Yes.
So first we are very confident that continuing through the process that the State of Washington has to permit the facility that we will be able to work our way through that and receive a permit for the facility.
However because of like you said with the rail incidence and that does create additional public interaction in that that we will have to just work our way through as we go through that.
But it's a very defined process and we feel good about working through that.
The second thing is the Tesoro rail fleet really has -- 90% of our railcars meet the highest standards that are out there today and we are actually replacing the rest of our rail fleet the other 10% which will be done by mid-year.
So our cars will meet the requirements that are out there today for the safety standards.
And so we feel good about that.
As a company we have also put in emergency response procedures to respond to an incident even though it's not the company's responsibility when it's in transit.
But we can response within two hours of any incident along the delivery of crude from North Dakota to Washington and we had had that in place now for probably over a year to do that.
So the final thing is we are actively engaged with helping develop new standards in that that could improve the safety performance of the railcars.
But one of the fundamental issues is the operation of the railroads because the issues have been dealing with the derailments and not of the railcars.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
It's pretty incredible to think you have got $1.2 billion of cash on the balance sheet after everything you did last year.
So I guess the question around you have also got as you said at the analyst day about $1.5 billion in cash from future sort of TLLP sales over the next three or four years.
So can you just remind us what think the minimum cash levels are and maybe talk a little bit high level that do you prefer to keep cash on the balance sheet for strategic acquisition or are you sort of more focused on the equity value through continued buybacks.
Yes our focus Ed is to be able to -- we think we need to maintain around $600 million to $800 million of cash just to meet the flow of really commercial opportunities as we source crude oil in that for our system in the company.
And so our priority for our cash remains to focus on delivering high return capital projects which we have a number of those this year and also a lot of work going on to identify other opportunities.
That’s the first thing.
The second thing is we will continue to maintain our competitive dividend and then as Scott mentioned we are only halfway through our stock repurchase program.
So we have repurchased $500 million of the $1 billion authorized by our board to repurchase.
And so we will continue to repurchase stock.
And then as the year unfolds we will probably continue to delever our balance sheet a little bit as a result primarily of the financing that we put in place for the acquisition of Southern California assets.
Quite clear.
And then just on the performance improvement objectives.
Again just from your slide for the analyst day something like $370 million to $430 million of annual EBITDA improvement.
Maybe if you could talk a little bit about maybe how much you saw of that already in the fourth quarter of '13.
Maybe talk a little bit to the timing of how you see that delivery through the quarters in '14? Is it just ratable or is it backend loaded? I am just trying to get a sense of where you are against your 2014 plans? I appreciate it's only February.
So one of the things that I will just reiterate that we will as the year goes on here will provide feedback on how we are performing relative to those commitments that we made in December to do that.
So up until the end of the year only a very small portion of that amount has been delivered and so not a significant amount yet.
But it's skewed a little bit more towards the second half of the year just because of the implementation of some of those projects.
And so we will see it start to accelerate in the second half of this year as we complete the work that we are doing on both the synergies and some of the crude delivery work in that to capture that value that you just identified Ed.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Kessler Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please proceed.
Couple of questions about California imports.
One is this inventory valuation effect just trying to dig in whether that’s a one off or structural.
It sounds like sats relates to the Panama pipeline effects.
But I am wondering if there is anything new about how you source crude now maybe with Carson in the mix.
Are you carrying more say crude on the water for example that’s subject to price finalization risk.
And then also related to the imports to California.
Some Gulf Coast refiners have talked about some redirection of medium and heavy barrels out of the Gulf Coast into the West coast and I am just curious if you are seeing any of that extra volume arrive in your markets.
So the first question on the inventory valuation that hit us in the fourth quarter.
That is a onetime impact and we expect it to come back in the first quarter because we do source the barrels in Panama.
So there is no fundamental change there.
There are some changes in where we are looking at bringing in some barrels from Mexico that traditionally would have gone into the Gulf Coast into the West Coast system.
So that is something that’s early on.
It hasn’t been put in place yet but there is some potential opportunity there to do that.
Other than that the normal crude supply patterns into the West Coast are pretty much staying in place and one of the advantages is that ANS continues to price very favorably.
So our supply of ANS into California works extremely well.
How are you seeing the price for those Mexican barrels relative to the Gulf Coast? It's too early Robert.
We are just in the early stages and we will just see how that unfolds as we go through that process to see if we can supply from Mexico.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Looks pretty cold in San Antonio today.
Maybe a follow up question on the West Coast capture rates.
So I understand the TLLP portion you also mentioned LA turnarounds.
Can you share more detail on units or duration I presume it was on plan but just to help understand how that element makes [indiscernible] capture a bit more of an outlier from an operational point of view.
Yes the turnaround as Scott mentioned was in the early part of the quarter when the crack spreads were high news.
So if you look at our California throughput fourth quarter versus third quarter we were down about 80 00 barrels a day of crude capacity which is around the Los Angeles refinery and so it impacted a number of different units at the refinery.
Unfortunately it was also delayed some outside of what we had planned to do and that had a negative impact also.
Yes.
And another follow-up on a comment that you just made I know it's early with regard to Mexican barrels moving west.
I mean just any color on timing there.
Is that related to terminal construction or what we are working of here with regard to what would Pemex maybe doing there.
No.
It would just be commercial negotiations and seeing how we can work through range and supply on that.
So it could be in the short term.
Something within 2014 you are saying? Possibly.
That’s interesting.
And then I guess lastly from me what you are seeing in Bakken field pricing.
I know [indiscernible] not really announced but is your field pricing any better? And I guess I presume that would be like many things today supply related due to weather.
Any comments would be helpful.
Thanks.
If you look at Bakken relative to Brent Bakken so far has been about $16 under Brent for the first quarter which is a little bit weaker than what it was in the fourth quarter of last year.
But other than that Bakken prices are holding up and continue to be very attractive.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Greg can you tell us what is the Carson crude slate in the fourth quarter and what you may expect will be changed in 2014? Paul the Carson crude slate hasn’t changed a lot.
I mean we continue to source crudes in from Iraq also from ANS crude primarily and then some other little -- some other crude.
But that’s staying in place.
Our focus really as we said previously is to really bring midcontinent crudes into the Port of Vancouver to be able to supply our entire West Coast system wherever we get the greatest value for those.
And as we have said that will happen hopefully by the later part of this year early part of 2015.
Right.
But before that it seems that you will have difficulty to get more [indiscernible] crude into California to your terminal with Savage come on stream sometime next year.
In the mean time for this year is there any opportunity like what you have done with the rest of your system that you can really phase out ANS which is still relatively expensive? No we are just working on some different opportunities Paul but nothing significant at this point in time really.
And in your Anacortes rail permit that's up to 50 000 barrel per day.
But I think your terminal is actually of the size I presume you can run for 60 000 70 000 barrel per day.
Any plan to issue an application for a higher permit? You are right Paul.
The terminal would have some additional capacity and it is permitted 50 000 barrels per day and at this stage we are working through our whole permitting process for the State of Washington to get -- we have to balance it out with what we are trying to do at the Port of Vancouver.
So we are more focused on the Port of Vancouver right now.
Okay.
And on the port of Vancouver you're saying that you're still pretty confident you will be able to go through the process and receive the application? Where are we or what is the next step or any date or any event in the timeline we should be watching out? I think if you look we filed the permit in August of 2013 and the process is designed to take about one year before they give approval or turn down the permit I guess.
But it takes about one year.
Along that one year timeframe there are many steps that you do to get public comment and filing all of the environmental permits in that.
They are really -- there won't be milestones that are visible to anyone as we walk our way through that to get to the final permit.
But there is a tremendous amount of work that goes on to position the successful gaining of the permit there that we will see.
But there won't be any significant things that you will see to know whether it's going to happen or not.
A final one.
I don't know whether it's a fair comparison I understand why California may end up that the margin capture rate was weak because of the turnaround.
In your mid-con system seems to me you're running pretty flat out without any problem.
And if we look at two of your competitors that they have reports Valero and Phillips 66 in their mid-con or their middle corridor system they have a tremendous improvement sequentially from the third to the fourth quarter.
And if we're looking at that even after we adjust for the TLLP you didn't really have the improvement.
So the question is that is there anything specific to your system why you have not been able to capture the same kind of improvement as your competitor in this quarter? You know Paul I haven't looked at the two companies you are talking about.
I don’t study their results that way to see what they did quarter-to-quarter.
So relative to their performance I can't comment on that.
From our standpoint our run rate and how we are pricing our crude oil and everything nothing has changed and it's been performing extremely well.
But I don’t know on a relative basis I just can't answer that question.
So there's nothing that you can cite maybe somewhat [indiscernible] extraordinary happened in the fourth quarter for you in the mid-con system? No.
There is not -- I mean the system other than little bit of an operating problem when we lost power in Salt Lake City for a short period of time but we are running strong and the crude's pricing in attractively.
So I don’t know I just don’t know how to compare to the other two companies.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Please proceed.
My question is with regard to product exports out of the West Coast.
Some of the tanker data indicated an increased in product exports out of the West Coast in the second half of '13 and some further increases early this year.
Would you share your views on West Coast product export activity? What do you think the major drivers are? Are they sustainable or transitory? Are they being impacted by Pacific Basin refining rationalization? Could you help me with that topic? Yes.
It's a good point Jeff.
Our view is is that for the 2013 total West Coast product exports were about 160 000 barrels a day with a period of time where they peaked at about 240 000 barrels a day.
And you are exactly right as to your comment about going to the Pacific.
We did observe that during the later part of 2013 that cargos of refined products were sent to Asia.
We believe it went to places like Australia New Zealand and Singapore which is something that hasn’t happened very often.
So that was a change from what we have seen.
But the exports continue to be strong off of the West Coast.
The normal flow of products off the West Coast into Mexico and into the West Coast of South America is somewhat limited so we don’t see tremendous upside growth in that.
However depending upon how the arbitrage opens up to the countries that I mentioned that could provide some upside opportunity on a go forward basis.
Good.
Thank you.
Secondly in your press release you talked about the turnaround expenses for the full year 2013 were at $360 million and '14 $205 million.
Those numbers are lower than what was in the December analyst day presentation.
And I wonder if they were apples to apples comparison and you've lowered turnaround expenditures or if perhaps there were other items that were included in the December numbers? You are exactly right Jeff.
In our December number we had two items in there in what we call turnaround.
We had turnaround in some marketing costs that are deferred marketing costs in support of our dealer network in California.
So the number that Scott provided this morning the projection of $205 million for 2014 is just refining turnaround expense.
There are no changes to our plans regarding turnaround.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Kohler Imperial Capital.
Please proceed.
My question is in regards to -- my understanding is that Koch Industries is going to end production in their Flint Hills refinery in Alaska of gasoline and jet fuel as they move into the second quarter.
Are there opportunities for you in that and do you think that that facility will I know that it had a number of issues over the last several years but what opportunities do you think if there are any for you as a result of that? Yes.
We are aware that Flint Hills has announced that they will be shutting down their refinery in Alaska.
Tesoro and Flint Hills have had a long term supply relationship where we supply some products to Flint Hills to meet their requirements in the State of Alaska and that’s worked out extremely well.
We suspect that on a go-forward basis that we will have to be able to continue that relationship and meet their supply requirements in Alaska as they go through their process to shut the refinery down.
So it does have some opportunity.
So there is possible opportunity that you could be able to run that facility a little bit harder? Our Kenai facility? Yes.
That could be.
That is very likely.
And how about any update on the potential crude pipeline to that facility? Yes we are in the final stages.
We will make a decision here on the pipeline to move crude oil in Cook Inlet across into the Kenai.
That project is progressing well and we will probably be able to report more fully on that sometime in the second half of 2014.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow Macquarie Capital.
Please proceed.
I want to ask you about California the product yield out there.
The light product yields didn't seem to improve in 2013 even with the addition of Carson which I think you previously mentioned that actually had higher yields than your existing system previous system.
Can you talk about what we can expect on the yields out of the system out there in 2014? You know I think I will have to look at that more closely.
Our yields aren't anything different than we have said.
Only as they were impacted by very extensive turnaround activity that we had in California.
Because most of the -- we had a significant turnaround activity in 2013.
But our projections on yields Chi aren't any different and we are driving to change our yield structure to be able to produce more diesel fuel.
But that’s going to take us a little bit of time.
But I actually don’t have an explanation of what you are looking at to see any difference in yields other than as a result of turnaround activity.
But you are expecting higher diesel with Carson...? Yes.
All things being equal on operations? Right.
Okay.
I guess in sort of follow-up on Ann's question there is another change coming in industry capacity in the North Dakota region.
There is a new refinery being built there.
Can you talk about the potential change to market dynamics when that plant does come online? Yes.
It's our understanding that that facility will produce diesel fuel to meet the strong demand in North Dakota for diesel fuel as a result of all the drilling activity.
So that area -- if you just look at that the Bakken area in that that area is significantly short of diesel fuel.
Our estimates are that it's short somewhere between 40 000 to 60 000 barrels a day of diesel fuel.
And partly that’s why we changed our yields at the refinery in that.
But that production when it comes online should be able to meet some of that supply of diesel fuel relative to the requirements for the drilling activity.
But you still figure...
I think it's like about 20 000 barrels a day or so [indiscernible] to make.
So there is a significant shortage in that area for that.
Okay.
So you still think it's going to be a short market then going forward even with the addition? Yes.
Yes.
We don’t see any changes in the drilling activity in that so we don’t see any changes there.
Okay.
And any updates on the Uinta pipeline project? Still in design and engineering work.
We are working with the state for permitting in that but it will be sometime later this year as we progress that development.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Just a couple of questions.
On the projected synergies for this year California the $205 million EBITDA.
I think you've mentioned some of this before but can you just remind us what's the breakdown of that $205 million in terms of operating costs I guess product improvement and crude acquisition costs? Just to kind of give us an expectation of what we should look for during the course of the year.
Yes Faisel you are right.
The breakdown of those synergies were in buckets.
One was feedstock supply some production efficiencies the third was around the distribution system and some operating cost.
Unfortunately I don’t have those numbers available with me right now.
I will have to go back.
I think they were -- well we have them laid out in our analyst presentation very clearly on the '14 and '15 numbers.
I don’t have them handy.
But if you go back to our analyst presentation they are clearly spelled out.
Okay.
I'll take a look at that.
And they haven't changed.
So you're saying it will be back-end loaded so you'll see it in operating costs and in the margin number during the course of the year? Yes as we bring out -- everything is in progress in that.
It will be more towards the second half of 2014.
That’s correct.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
And then just on the looking at the gasoline price in the West Coast in the fourth quarter with ANS trading kind of below Brent what's your view on whether gas in the West Coast should trade off of ANS or whether it should trade off of global benchmarks? How much risk is there that as more of the domestic crude floods the West Coast that some of the gasoline pricing starts to mark itself off of an ANS or some other marker versus sort of an international marker? Yes.
We have not seen any real fundamental changes which say that the price of gasoline was going to priced any differently than it has to price off of Brent.
So we see that holding up.
Our view is which has always been is that like you see LA crack spread as a reference point which over the last few years has been around $14.50 a barrel or so.
We see only a little bit of improvement in the LA crack spread primarily with the weakening of ANS differentials and we expect to be able -- we think that that will be retained without passing it on in the marketplace just looking at the overall supply demand.
Okay.
Got it.
And I understand you guys are certainly moving forward with your plans to move crude to the Vancouver facility.
But I'm wondering are you also contemplating any plans to move crude through these hybrid pipeline rail systems from the east to the west.
Whether it's a southern trails sort of system or something like it or similar? I know the Freedom pipeline that Kinder was proposing was a little bit oversized.
And I'm wondering if you're considering any other options to move any sort of pipeline options to move crude into the state? You know we are looking at different things but we don’t see anything that is that encouraging at this point in time to be able to do that.
There is a possibility on a opportunistic basis you could move crude from the Permian in that by rail into California which we have taken some very small amount of that but we don’t see from a pipeline standpoint today.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.