Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeida and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our first quarter 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Scott Spendlove Senior Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions and the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Scott.
Thanks Brian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call today.
I will review the earnings release and some highlights of our results and then provide guidance before handing the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported first quarter 2014 net income from continuing operations of $78 million or $0.58 per diluted share compared to $93 million or $0.67 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
Results include a onetime after-tax expense of $0.14 per diluted share related to the redemption of Tesoro's 9 3/4% senior notes due in 2019.
Results also include a onetime gain of $0.02 per diluted share from the sale of the Tesoro Logistics Boise Idaho terminal.
Excluding these special items the company reported net income from continuing operations of $95 million or $0.71 per diluted share compared to net income from continuing operations of $103 million or $0.74 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
We are pleased with our first quarter results.
Despite a challenging margin environment we are making solid progress on delivering the earnings improvements we have targeted for this year.
That progress is reflected in these results and our strong first quarter margin capture rate.
The Tesoro Index was $8.86 per barrel for the first quarter with a realized gross margin of $10.80 per barrel or 122% capture of the Tesoro Index.
A year ago the Tesoro Index was $12.33 per barrel for the quarter with a realized gross margin of $14.14 per barrel or 115% capture of the Tesoro Index.
Total refining throughput was 817 000 barrels per day or 96% utilization.
Higher natural gas prices increased manufacturing cost to $5.61 per barrel an increase of $0.22 per barrel from the last quarter.
Retail fuel sales volumes were higher by about 128% year-over-year while retail marketing margins were down relative to the same period last year reflecting the addition of the higher volume lower margin ARCO retail stations as part of the Los Angeles acquisition.
Same-store fuel sales were higher by almost 0.5% versus the first quarter of last year.
Retail fuel margins during the quarter were $0.09 per gallon flat relative to the fourth quarter of last year.
Capital spending was $77 million for Tesoro and $26 million for Tesoro Logistics.
We still anticipated full year 2014 capital spending of about $670 million excluding Tesoro Logistics capital spending of about $160 million.
Turnaround spending was $55 million in the first quarter.
The company continues to expect full year 2014 turnaround expenditures of $205 million.
We repurchased $100 million worth of Tesoro shares during the quarter.
Through the end of April we have repurchased an additional $35 million worth of shares.
This brings total purchases under the $1 billion authorization to $635 million.
Since we began repurchasing shares at the beginning of 2012 we repurchased over 14.5 million shares which represents about 10% of the total outstanding shares in 2012.
Our corporate and unallocated costs on a pre-tax basis were $47 million excluding $3 million in corporate depreciation and a benefit of $18 million for non-cash variable stock-based compensation.
This is lower than the original guidance of $60 million primarily as a result of expenses that are expected to be incurred later in 2014.
We ended the quarter with the cash balance of about $800 million.
Sources of cash included adjusted EBITDA of about $370 million.
Uses of cash include changes in working capital and other of about $450 million; capital and turnaround spending of about $160 million; shareholder distributions buybacks and financing costs of about $180 million; and cash and interest -- cash interest and taxes of about $20 million.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of about $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and $575 million on the Tesoro Logistics LP revolver.
Total debt outstanding was $2.8 billion.
Tesoro Corporation's debt was just under $1.7 billion and Tesoro Logistics' debt was about $1.2 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to total capitalization ratio was 28% at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter we also completed the refinancing of our 9 3/4% senior notes which were due in 2019.
The new 5 1/8% senior notes due in 2024 extend our debt maturities and save the company about $14 million in interest expense payments annually.
The new notes include investment-grade covenants reflecting the market's appreciation for the strength of our financial position.
Turning to that second quarter guidance.
The West Coast market is currently undergoing normal maintenance activities and some refineries have also experienced extended and unplanned downtime.
This is driving inventory levels to near 5-year lows for this time of year.
As a result of these market dynamics we have seen a significant increase in West Coast margins quarter-to-date.
During the month of April Tesoro had both planned and unplanned maintenance at our California refineries that we expect may impact yields and capture rates for the second quarter.
This maintenance is reflected in the following guidance: We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 505 000 to 525 000 barrels per day in the California region; 165 000 to 175 000 in the Pacific Northwest; and 120 000 to 130 000 in the Mid-Con.
We expect manufacturing costs in dollars per barrel to be $6.50 to $6.75 per barrel in the California region; $4.50 to $4.75 in the Pacific Northwest; and $4.05 to $4.30 in the Mid-Con region.
Depreciation for Tesoro refinery is expected to be $105 million and $16 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Additional guidance items included -- or include estimated corporate expense excluding depreciation of $60 million and interest expense before interest income of $41 million.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Scott.
We are pleased with our progress towards achieving the 5 distinctive performance objectives we discussed with you at our Analyst Conference in December mainly delivering California synergies; enhancing gross margins; improving the base; growing logistics; and maintaining financial discipline.
Let me update you on some of the key projects that underpin these objectives.
We are making good progress on delivering the expected synergies from the California acquisition.
Let me give you 3 clear examples of some of the opportunities that we've realized to date.
We were able to debottleneck the Front Hill recovery unit and increase production capacity by 10 tons per day.
This modification allows us to increase crude flexibility and to finally encapture further synergy.
We optimized our West Coast burrough suite to move efficiently more feedstock and products and improved overall transportation economics.
And during the first quarter turnaround of Los Angeles we were able to avoid the stress [indiscernible] by optimizing feedstock across the Los Angeles facility generating significant synergies.
Meanwhile we are advancing through the engineering phase of the project the shut down of Wilmington's cat cracker and increase the production flexibility at the Los Angeles refinery.
We anticipate starting the permitting process in the third quarter of this year and expect to complete the project in early 2017.
Turning to our initiatives to enhance gross margin.
We are progressing to Port of Vancouver's permit process with Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Committee or EFSEC.
The joint venture has now completed in excess of 80% of the design and engineering work required for the facility.
The total cost for the 360 000-barrel-per-day facility is now expected to be between $150 million and $190 million split 50-50 between the JV partners.
The permitting process is taking longer than we have originally expected.
Nevertheless we expect to receive permit and begin construction in late 2014 or early 2015.
We expect initial volumes to begin moving to its facilities by mid-2015 and expect the full project to be completed about 12 months after construction begins.
Phase II at the Salt Lake City waxy crude oil project is expected to be completed in spring of 2015 bringing total runs of the cost advantage waxy crude to 22 000 to 24 000 barrels per day from today's 17 000 barrels per day.
We have recently revised our final cost estimates for this project and are increasing capital spending by about $16 million primarily related to expanding the gas plant and constructing truck unloading racks.
We now expect total spending on the project to be $335 million with no change in the total projected EBITDA of $100 million per year.
We expect returns on this project to be in the 20% to 25% range.
Further to enhancing the gross margin we expect to close on the acquisition of 15 retail stations in the Salt Lake City area next month.
We have also reasonably extended our right to use the Exxon and Mobil brands to include the states of Utah Arizona and Nevada and plan on rebranding these stations under this new agreement.
Following the announcement by Flint Hills that they will be shutting down their North Pole Alaska refinery we extended and expanded our existing long-term supply agreement to provide finished product to Flint Hills in Alaska.
As a result we expect to improve our base business with high refinery utilization lower cost of barrel and increased margin capture at our Kenai Alaska refinery.
We also continued to make progress on proactively replacing our older crude oil rail fleet and expect to have 100% of our fleet compliance with a post-2011 CPC 1232-design specification by mid-2014.
On the logistics side of the business TLLP had an excellent quarter and operations are running well.
They have made substantial progress on their first open season to expand the High Plains system and more recently commenced another open season to expand the gathering system around Dunn County.
TLLP expects both expansion to deliver a growing stream of committed third-party revenues.
We are clearly focused on our efforts to continuing to grow our Logistics business.
Finally further to our commitment of maintaining strong financial discipline.
We continue repurchasing shares and otherwise returning to our shareholders to our competitive dividend yield.
We also expect to further reduce debt this year to maintain the balance sheet strength still in part of being competitive in this business.
And now we will take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about -- with the rapidly increasing inventories on the Gulf Coast it appears that some of the crudes that have historically served the Gulf Coast market are looking -- or priced attractively to move to the West Coast.
Could you talk about your ability to take incremental crudes that typically serve the Gulf Coast into California your refiners' capability of doing that and your ability to transport those volumes? That's the way our crude supply system is working now Jeff is very limited to be able to do that because of where we source our crude from and that so it's something that's in the short-term that's again to our supply patterns.
We have to really juggle our whole West Coast supply to be able to do that.
And at this point in time we haven't done that.
Research Division</strong> But your refinery capability is there to use alternative crudes it's more the transportation restrictions? Yes.
I think in the past we've actually said we could handle probably around 200 000 barrels a day of the kind of the Mid-Continent light fleet crude in our system in the West Coast if everything works perfectly.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And secondly in the Bakken you are receiving Bakken barrels on the West Coast and advantage -- transportation advantage relative to other regions.
It does appear that the Gulf Coast is not economic at this point for Bakken barrels by rail.
But it appears to me that the marginal Bakken barrel has got to move out of the -- out of the Bakken by rail.
And that perhaps the field's own prices are trading more than the typical $2 a barrel below Clearbrook and Clearbrook's kind of the indicator that we can see.
Are you seeing Bakken fields on pricing trading substantially below Clearbrook? Jeff we don't typically disclose those type of commercial deals because it impacts the way we supply our system.
But you're right Bakken is pricing very attractively to the West Coast which we believe will be the case going forward.
Your next question is coming from the line of Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Greg could you -- because it was quite a weak U.S.
GDP number yesterday but it seems like oil demand is pretty strong.
Could you give us some sort of comparison update on what your same-store sales or equivalent number is year-over-year? Just so we can get an idea for how the margin is looking in your markets.
Yes.
In the first part of the year so far our same-store sales in primarily California are up a little bit less than 0.5%.
And as you know they've continued to be pretty reasonably strong over the last several quarters so they look pretty good Jeff -- Paul sorry.
LLC</strong> So is the 0.5% growth -- isn't that kind of weak? Isn't that kind of weak Greg? Not really I mean it's -- I think if we stay in that less than 1% or so that's not bad.
I think there are probably some timing issues in that that's over short of few months.
So it's not going to be better yet.
But that's okay Paul.
LLC</strong> Yes sure.
And on distillate is there anything to add there? The distillate I think the distillate demand is in kind of above average nothing unusual there from a distillate standpoint.
I think the other thing we are seeing pretty strong exports off of the West Coast so far for the first 4 months of this year they continue to grow.
LLC</strong> Is that -- are you doing that? We're a significant part and we play into the West Coast export market both gasoline and diesel.
LLC</strong> Is that -- so are you saying that you an exporter? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> One of the ideas Greg that would benefit you guys was that as you put more Bakken crude in another inland crudes that there would be more pressure on the Alaska market.
Is that market shifting the Alaska ANS market? It's what I'm talking about.
Are we seeing shift there of the kind that you anticipated both in terms of price and whether or not the volumes might start having to go over to Asia? Regarding the point on volumes to Asia I don't think that's happened yet and I think they're will have to be more supply in the West Coast.
The ANS differential to Brent had been quite attractively -- right now going into the maintenance season which communication that we receive from the producers is it's going to be a fairly heavy maintenance season in the last October differentials as you can see are turning back a little bit here for this period of time.
But we expect directionally that we move additional supplies of crude oil to the West Coast.
But the ANS differential will price more attractively to Brent.
LLC</strong> And last one for me Greg.
We had PBS saying that they may have some interest in buying California refineries.
Any observations on the asset market for us? Paul I don't really have any comments on that.
I haven't really heard anything or picked up anything in the media so I do not know.
Your next question is coming from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I mean has the EIS been filed? And any additional color on what the delays there or what the key gating item might be in that process? Two things we are in the [indiscernible] when the state will come out with the requirements for the EIS and then we'll comply with that.
So that's what we're waiting for.
So the primary delay is just waiting for the state to come with the EIS requirements but that is sort of somewhere between 6 to 8 weeks behind schedule.
But we're actually in a good position to respond fairly quickly when that comes out.
And that is part of the process it's the only delay that we've experienced so far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And as you mentioned you can receive cargoes during that construction period which is now a little bit later.
I mean how should we consider the ramp-up of volumes? Or what can you move to the facility during that construction or the 12-month ramp/construction period? It's just a little bit too premature to do that.
I've mentioned that we've completed about 80% of the design and engineering work.
And just give us a little bit more time Evan so we get a better idea of what -- how we'll be able to manage that as time goes on.
I would suspect that some time after summer we'll have a really good indication of how we'll do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And secondly for me on the synergy capture.
Overall is the $370 million to $430 million 2014 guidance on track? I mean would you consider that a back-end loaded number? Or how would you classify the overall progress and realization of that synergy price? Yes it's an excellent question.
I think first the opportunities we've identified and we've talked about in terms of broad profits are being implemented and we're seeing actually very good success in doing that.
I stated at the end of last year we would be in a position after the second quarter of this year to start sharing the contribution from the synergies and we still intend to do that.
And there's no change to the numbers that we've laid out in our plans both for 2014 and in aggregate for the synergy.
And there -- as we implement the staff they are listing more of the benefits later in the year.
But we're making very good progress and will be glad to share that in our second quarter earnings call.
Research Division</strong> Great I look forward to that.
And just one last one for me.
TLLP had a nice contribution this quarter.
I mean as you consider your retail assets and given some of what was highlighted earlier this week I mean do you see any MLP cash stream or MLP-able cash flow within your retail system? Anything that could be characterized as wholesale? Evan we continue to look at our retail business our focus is -- as everyone knows has been to strengthen our integration and refine the marketing -- and you can tell by my comments we made a small little acquisition in Utah that continue to build out our brand presence in the markets where we are.
So it's something that we continue to look at but have not arrived at any decisions on how we would do that at this point in time.
Your next question is coming from the line of Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess if we could just little bit talk about the Q2 California volume throughput's a little lower the combination of planned and unplanned.
Just wondering because we think some reports in the press is I guess it was the California version of OSHA putting some restrictions on you.
Can you give us an idea how that's gone through? Or is that behind us so it was really the month of April that hit you and the rest of the quarter should be okay? So for the first quarter our California throughput from a crude standpoint were strong including the maintenance that we did in our Los Angeles refinery.
During the month of April we have experienced a couple problems with our -- the 2 cat crackers at our Los Angeles refinery and lost a little bit of gasoline production mainly somewhere between 8% to 10% of production just for the month.
Those have been -- those issues have been corrected and we are back running full.
And we've also had a little bit of downtime on the crude unit at Martinez that will work through the quarter see what that finally turns out to be.
But Brian gave you the guidance for the second quarter for California and you could see the crude rates are still strong.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then as we look at the share repurchase program the last couple of quarters here it's been fairly consistent at $100 million.
And I guess I really should say less maybe 4 quarters.
Is that the right way to think about it? And given where you are through the program not trying to ask you to jump in front of your board but would the expectation be that we would see a further expansion of the program? I mean is that where you want to go with it? First we continue to evaluate each quarter how we want to repurchase shares and so you're exactly right.
We've had a track record here of doing about $100 million a quarter.
And I suspect that that would be a good way to evaluate going forward.
But we may change it if conditions were to change.
Second we've been very clear that our use of excess cash flow -- free cash flow is to be able to look for improvements that we can invest in the business where they reach -- provide high return and then be in the position to return cash to shareholders.
And then finally I think Scott did make the point in his comments that we still have about $400 million of turnaround that we put in place to finance the acquisition last year of the assets in Southern California.
And over the next couple of quarters it's within our intention to repay that term loan with the cash flow -- free cash flow.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First from time to time the permit discount just bear well.
Greg have you guys ever looked at whether economic -- or the better economic to weld from Permian up in the quarter instead of coming from Bakken? And what did you -- may change if you're using a different grade? We have in the past last year on occasion we did move from Permian to Los Angeles and manifest rail cars because of the inability to take high volumes there.
So we continue to look at that all at the time.
It's just we just don't want to go all the way to Anacortes with a crude.
It's just not as efficient as we can with Bakken in that Paul.
But we do continue to evaluate every possibility to move advantaged high-quality crudes from the mid-part of the country to the West Coast.
Research Division</strong> I think in the fourth quarter that you guys are shipping maybe 10 000 barrel per day to California or well over 10 000.
What's their warning in the first quarter? And what do you expect for the remainder of the year? In the first quarter we moved a little bit around 5 000 barrels a day -- 5 000 to 7 000 barrels a day into California.
And we will -- are projecting that we will continue to try to do -- move that amount of crude there.
Our logistical system is somewhat constrained and limits how much we can move there at the present time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So we just assume they would be pretty static say not more than 10 000 barrel per day for the remainder of the year? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in Carson I think before being acquired by you guys that they are running largely -- you said so ANS maybe 100 000 barrel per day and then maybe another 100 000 after Iraqi Basra.
If the crudes -- they have changed now or that you see sensory still about the same crude slate as in the past? It is basically the same.
We are running some different crudes there but not material differences at this point in time.
I think it's in our plan to do that.
So basically what you described is the bulk of the crude supply to 2 sources.
It's what happened in the Los Angeles refinery today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Great.
How quickly that you think you may start -- be able to change their crudes slate to that? So that's the first thing one of the -- our intentions at the Port of Vancouver is to be able to do that.
So that...
Research Division</strong> So you have to wait until the Savage terminal up and running before you can actually do that? That would allow us to move the most significant volume right now as we do that.
We are looking on other things on an ongoing basis to be able to move crudes there.
So we have a number of things that we're looking at but that is the primary way that we want to be able to improve crude supply across through the Los Angeles facility.
Research Division</strong> And when the southeast -- we assume that your original data will get the permit and this actually will become a reality some time in 2015.
Given the -- you have said in your system you're running smoothly you can process up to 200 000 barrels per day of the light oil.
Is there any reason that you will not take 100% of the Savage wanting that into your own system? Seems like even after you expanded into 280 000 barrel per day including heavy oil and light oil you would be -- have more sufficient capacity refining capacity to absorb it.
Is there any kind of arrangement with your partner that will stop you in taking the entire shipment for yourself? There is no restrictions on how much we choose to move to Vancouver Washington and then supply our West Coast system.
We would just balance it with the financial commitments and our overall supply strategy with continued process of crudes in that of how much we ultimately decide to take.
We have said so far we have committed to take the first 50 000 barrels a day and I think the partnership has worked through with the rest of the supply for that facility we'll be engaged in doing that.
But I think at the same time Paul we need to look at the dynamics of the tightening of other types of crude as we do that.
And I think goes back to Jeff's question earlier that there maybe some other impacts on crude that we'll see how that impacts but will ultimately return on how much could we take up to our West Coast system.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Terreson with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Greg on synergy value and capture pace that you talked about a few minutes ago my question is whether there are any significant differences on how the team is performing versus expectations? Meaning is the team exceeding expectation in some areas and -- but not others meaning have there been any meaningful surprises either way in that area? As of today Doug there have not been really any surprises.
We have such a focused effort and with a good group of leadership in our systems and that are looking at it.
So there have not been any surprises.
And I think the other key thing to point out is as you go through the gaining process of our project work on the projects that one of the outcomes will be to shut down our cat cracker the Wilmington part of the facility.
That work is all progressing well on that.
So we feel very very good about the opportunity that we pushed through and the delivery and the people that are tied in with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then second the capture rate in the mid-continent was pretty strong this quarter.
So the question there is were there some factors that may or may not be recurring that will take that capture rate in the future? And if so what were they? I don't think there's anything significant.
I think the crude disk are down a little bit so far in April versus the first quarter.
But there's nothing that fundamentally we see going to change that would impact the capture rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Chi Chow with Macquarie Capital.
I know you got the logistics cost still as coming but I was wondering if I could ask on a couple of details on the 1Q results and how that might trend going forward.
I guess in particular in that terminalling and transportation section I see 3 things that kind of stick out this quarter versus the sequential fourth quarter results.
One is the terminalling fee up meaningfully per barrel? Second is the pipeline transportation volumes well up? And third is operating expenses actually coming down sequentially despite the addition of the assets? Can you comment on those 3 items and the impact in 1Q and how that's going to trend going forward here? Yes there's probably 3 points to make that would answer your questions Chi.
First as a result of the top-down that we did in the fourth quarter at the last part of the Los Angeles assets that's working kind of as we planned and that has an impact from the first quarter results.
Across the system volumes for Tesoro Logistics in all areas for the first quarter relative to what we would expect performed extremely well and the things that our logistics team is working on are progressing well in that.
So everything is looking very very positive right now and the outlook is for that to continue to go.
You've seen our announcements on the open season and the success that we've had with that.
On cost there was a tiny issue on some cost in the terminalling system primarily some work that we moved out of the first quarter just from a workload standpoint that will come back later in the year but that's the only real impact.
Okay.
Really so if the terminalling fee is in the volume then we can expect that as a sort of recurring type of levels then? Yes.
They reflect the business with the changes in the portfolio for Tesoro Logistics that you got for the fourth quarter.
Okay good.
And then also on Logistics.
Looks like the coverage ratio for TLLP was over 2x in the quarter.
Can we expect that trend -- how do we expect that trend to go forward here? And do you have a target coverage ratio? So Scott do you mind commenting on that? Sure I'll take that Greg.
The coverage ratio was about 1.7x during the first quarter Chi.
And it really -- part of it is it includes $9.7 million in proceeds from the sale of the Boise Terminal.
So if you backed that out you'll see still a very robust coverage ratio but lower than the 1.7x.
And we target a 1.1x coverage ratio on a forward basis.
And any target on when you will achieve that 1.1x Scott? Well over the longer term is when we expect to achieve that.
But we've been growing the distributions at about 4% a quarter at this point.
So I think we're in a good shape relative to that target coverage ratio.
Okay.
And then a final question Greg.
Can you give us an update on the 2 pipeline projects the Uinta Basin and Cook Inlet and where those stand? First on Cook Inlet.
The work on Cook Inlet the design engineering work and working with a crude suppliers and all that is progressing well.
I think we said in our Analyst Meeting we expected that pipeline to come online in 2015.
And everything so far is on schedule and looking very very encouraging.
And so we'll probably have further updates on Cook Inlet during the -- probably summer time.
Regarding the Uinta express pipeline.
Somewhat similar story only not quite as advanced.
We are actively engaged in a pretty big outreach program with the community where the pipeline will go through informing them of the routing of the pipeline in that and we've had numerous meetings with the authorities out in the state.
The work on the pipeline is also progressing and that our plans to bring that on in 2016 as we've previously stated are also on track to do that right now.
So we've done a lot of work on designing the pipeline and getting very comfortable with the type of crude that we'd be moving on how we would handle that.
So both projects are looking very good.
Okay.
Are you running into any sort of opposition when you're meeting with the communities on the Uinta project? Not a lot about opposition.
I mean as you would expect in some cases there are some concerns when the pipeline goes to certain areas in that.
But nothing that we don't feel like we can't help to continue to help people understand what we're doing and all of the safety precautions and everything that are put in place when the pipeline is installed.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up.
You mentioned there was an extra 6- to 8-week approval process for the Port of Vancouver.
I just didn't quite catch what that was called.
Let me take one step back.
The best set process in the State of Washington the way it's laid out is about a 1-year process that we previously stated.
We used -- and started that process in August of 2013 and you work your way through that process.
We are at a kind of a stage in the process where the state needs to provide us the requirements for the EIS environmental impact study.
And they have not gotten that out to us yet.
And that's what we're waiting for and that is the primary slowdown in our permitting process.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I guess in I mean in different states but in California this EIS studies have sometimes come with problems in the sense of they ask lots of open-ended questions which are then difficult to nail down.
Can you give us some kind of thoughts around the risks of the EIS requirements causing a further delay from the -- what you've outlined this morning? At this stage we don't have any indication that that would be the case.
But I can tell you that our team in conjunction with Savage have done an extensive work on this.
And we are in a fairly good position to respond to the requirements with the State of Washington but it's just too premature to address that question.
Research Division</strong> This may also be premature but I mean do you think -- what do you think would be the most problematic elements of an EIS in terms of the work that your team has done? We really don't know at this stage yet.
And I think it's just -- I'd only be guessing and it wouldn't provide any benefit to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- obviously you had -- you flagged some of the unplanned downtime in the second quarter.
Obviously as people think about the strong earnings you've had in the first quarter and trying to think about the second quarter.
An opportunity cost if you had it would be very helpful for people to sort of handicap what you do in Q2.
I know you've given good throughput guidance.
Have you done any work on what the opportunity cost is so far? No not at this stage.
We've been bringing the -- we've got the issues corrected and they're back up and running.
And in some cases it will depend on how much make up we can do as we now run in the second quarter.
But our maintenance activity is relatively low during Q2.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay so early enough that there could be some catch-up? Yes.
Too early to comment on that yes.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of things for me.
If I could just jump back to the cash balance question for a second Greg.
It looks like obviously there's a fairly punchy work in California this quarter.
Is that something that impacts your buyback pace? Do you expect that to reverse back out again? Just how are you thinking about that? Obviously the authorization is now a whole lot bigger than where we are today.
So if I could just ask you to revisit that issue very quickly.
Yes.
There's no question that if you look at our working capital it bounces around quite a bit as we supply primarily the Southern California system with crude oil.
And so -- but we continue to work to look at how we supply the system longer term and so that could change a little bit.
But it does have a little bit of an impact on our repurchase program and we look at the use of working capital and our desire to maintain a cash balance that we've said before of around of 3/4 of $1 billion plus or minus a little bit on either side of that.
So it does have a minor impact but we're pretty comfortable with the program we have in place and how we do our buyback right now as we've managed the cash position of the company.
Research Division</strong> A kind of related question to the cash flow.
The capital expenditure is pretty light in the first quarter relative to your guidance.
What -- is it just a pacing issue? Or can you help us with how the run rate will balance through the year? Yes it's primarily just pacing issues we've gone through the year in that.
So as Scott stated in his our guidance what all of our projections right now show is pretty much being on target with our capital plans for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And final from me is Bakken differential is obviously tightened up fairly aggressively in the first quarter.
I guess it's kind of squared fairly tight.
What does do to your economics around Anacortes? Do you continue to see -- I guess something about the yield uplift as well as the operating cost but do you continue to see that as economic under your current market? Yes absolutely.
Yes.
There was -- the differential is used -- sided in the market today it is still the right supply for Shell oil refinery.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Brian Randecker for any closing remarks.
Then thank you everybody and talk to you next quarter.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.