Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mina and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our third quarter 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff President and CEO; and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
And Tesoro Logistics will be holding a joint Analyst Day and Investor Day in New York on December 9 at 9 a.m.
The registration instructions are detailed in the third quarter earnings press release.
Starting with the 4Q and full year 2014 earnings results we will begin to post an audio file on our website in connection with each quarterly earnings press release.
This audio file will contain the scripted portion of our quarterly call and we will only cover highlights on the live call to allow more time for Q&amp;A.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Brian.
I'll review some highlights of our results talk about our outlook and then hand the call over to Greg.
We're very pleased with the results of all segments of our business during the third quarter.
We achieved 126% capture rate of the Tesoro Index realized record retail results and continued to grow logistics.
This resulted in net income of $396 million or $3.05 per diluted share.
EBITDA was $840 million a record quarterly result.
Let's review each of the segments starting with refining.
Operating income was $578 million for the quarter compared to $128 million last year.
Throughput for the quarter was 858 000 barrels a day or 101% utilization.
The favorable margin environment increased retail demand from our integrated network and our excellent operating performance allowed us to run our facilities at higher utilization than originally planned.
Direct manufacturing costs per barrel were down $0.46 per barrel to $5.42 compared to the second quarter 2014.
The Tesoro Index was $12.32 per barrel for the quarter.
The overall gross margin for the quarter was $15.49 per barrel or 126% of the Tesoro Index.
During the quarter Brent crude oil declined by $18 per barrel and WTI declined by $14 per barrel.
During our second quarter call we highlighted the $74 million loss on mark-to-market and the majority of that reversed at the beginning of the third quarter.
Operating income in logistics segment was $61 million up $48 million or 369% from the third quarter of last year.
The substantial growth has been driven by increased throughput volume from the High Plains system in North Dakota the Los Angeles Logistics Assets and contribution from the West Coast Logistics Assets.
The retail segment's operating income was $138 million.
We experienced higher same-store fuel sales during the quarter of 1.4% versus the third quarter last year.
Strong sales from our ARCO network are expanding Exxon and Mobil retail branding program and favorable market conditions resulting from strong demand and declining crude oil prices results in record level retail segment performance.
Let's now focus on cash and capital structure.
Consolidated sources of cash included quarterly record EBITDA of $840 million and changes in working capital and other of about $60 million.
Uses of cash include capital and turnaround spending of about $220 million changes in debt of about $115 million shareholder distribution and buybacks of about $210 million and cash interest and taxes of about $60 million.
We ended the third quarter with a strong cash balance of over $1.5 billion.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of approximately $2.2 billion on the corporate revolver and $332 million on the TLLP revolver.
Total consolidated debt was $2.9 billion.
Tesoro's portion was under $1.7 billion and TLLP's was under $1.3 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to capitalization ratio was 27%.
We purchased 150 million worth of Tesoro's shares during the third quarter.
Through the end of October we have already purchased an additional 50 million in shares.
This brings total purchases under the current $1 billion authorization to $900 million.
We expect to begin utilizing the new $1 billion share repurchase authorization program in 2015.
Tesoro Corporation today also announced that the Board of Directors has declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share.
Turning to the fourth quarter outlook.
We estimate throughput to be in thousands of barrels per day 495 to 515 on the California region; 160 to 170 in the Pacific Northwest; and 120 to 130 in the Mid-Continent.
We expect manufacturing costs in dollars per barrel to be $605 to $630 in California region; $445 to $470 in the Pacific Northwest; and $380 to $405 in the Mid-Continent.
Depreciation for Tesoro refining was expected to be $105 million and $10 million for Tesoro Logistics.
Additionally we expect corporate expenses excluding depreciation to be $60 million and the interest expense before interest income of about $56 million.
Interest expense will also include approximately $30 million of additional expense during the fourth quarter related to TLLP's financing and acquisition of QEP Field Services.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Steven.
We are pleased with our progress towards achieving the 5 distinctive performance objectives discussed at our Analyst Meeting last December.
First delivering California synergies; second enhancing our gross margin; third driving other business improvements across our system of assets; fourth growing our Logistics business through TLLP; and finally doing this and maintaining strong financial discipline.
Through the end of the third quarter we delivered $390 million toward our ongoing California synergy and business improvement objectives.
We expect to exceed our commitments this year and we'll provide an updated outlook for 2014 and 2015 at our Analyst and Investor Day in December.
This year we committed to delivering $160 million to $180 million of improvements related to the California synergies.
Through September we have delivered approximately $165 million of these improvements.
We also committed $140 million to $160 million of improvements related to our efforts to enhance gross margins.
We have delivered $135 million of these improvements related to our efforts to date this year.
And finally we committed to $70 million to $90 million improvements related to improving our base business.
Through September we have delivered $90 of these improvements.
We're very pleased with the delivery of the California synergies.
The improvements are clearly visible when you compare our capture rate versus the Tesoro Index this year.
The third quarter gross margin capture rate was 117% or nearly $2 per barrel over the Tesoro California index of $11.12 per barrel.
We continue to make good progress on the integration of the 2 facilities.
We have run over 20 different types of crude oil in Los Angeles this year and are continuing to focus on improving the optimization of the combined crude oil slate.
The Wilmington facility has started to realize benefits from accessing the Carson inbound crude oil logistics network which has improved our flexibility.
Meanwhile we are advancing through the engineering phase of the project to shut down Wilmington's FCC or cat cracker and increase distillate production flexibility at the Los Angeles refinery.
We have started and submitted the initial permitting and expect to complete the project in early 2017.
The project remains subject to final scoping board approval and permitting.
Efforts to enhance gross margins elsewhere in our system and drive other business improvements are continuing to yield strong results.
This can clearly be seen in the Mid-Continent region.
Year-to-date we realized a gross margin of $23.62.
This is a 135% capture of the Group 3 crack of $17.39 which is an improvement from the 92% capture of the crack over the same period last year.
This improvement is a direct result of the projects we completed last year and we look forward to the added benefits we'll receive with the Phase 2 expansion at Salt Lake City next spring.
Our Pacific Northwest region had utilization of over 97% in the third quarter which has not been achieved since 2007.
Year-to-date utilization in the Pacific Northwest has increased to 90% over a 10% increase compared to the same period last year.
We've also been focused on enhancing gross margins through further optimizing our marketing portfolio.
We now have approximately 110 Exxon and Mobil-branded stations in our portfolio up from 80 at the end of the second quarter and 0 1 year ago.
Turning to growth in our Logistics business.
TLLP has once again had an excellent quarter and operations are running well.
We expect annual 2015 EBITDA from our existing business to grow $75 million to $100 million over 2014 primarily as a result of our organic growth programs and the full year benefit from the acquisition of the West Coast Logistics Assets.
With the announced acquisition of QEP Field Services we expect to generate additional consolidated EBITDA inclusive of 100% of QEPM of approximately $250 million to $275 million before integration expense.
With the additional $500 million investment in TLLP common units as part of the financing of the acquisition Tesoro now owns approximately 28.2 million units or 35% of the outstanding units.
We also completed the $270 million sale of logistics assets to TLLP during the quarter.
The value and distributions we receive from our GP interest continues to grow rapidly.
The third quarter GP distributions are expected to be around $14.3 million or $57 million annualized.
This is over a 70% increase from what our GP distributions were just last quarter and we expect the total distributions from TLLP to Tesoro in 2015 will exceed $150 million.
Tesoro has been utilizing TLLP to execute a very distinctive strategy and support our growth objectives.
With the QEP Field Services acquisition we are now entering a new era for TLLP.
As we have a platform for robust growth across the crude oil and natural gas basins in Tesoro's strategic footprint we remain focused on growing our string of committed third-party revenues which highly differentiates from the other refining MLPs.
Tesoro intends to remain -- maintain robust growth within our logistics through a host of activities that include higher utilization organic expansion and strategic growth through acquisitions as well as a ratable flow of accretive asset sales to TLLP over the next few years.
Our strategy around logistics has been consistent from the start and we are committed to delivering stable cash flows and driving a high level of growth through our Logistics business which should continue to generate significant value for all of our investors.
As the largest unitholder of TLLP we're determined to execute our growth plans and continue to deliver exceptional distribution growth to the unitholders.
Finally to support our commitment of maintaining strong financial discipline we have continued our share repurchase program.
We expect to complete the first billion dollar authorization by the end of this year.
With only $100 million remaining as of today we are on track to accomplish $500 million of total repurchases in 2014.
We continue to focus on maintaining the balance sheet strength so important to being competitive in this business.
The permitting process for the 360 000-barrel per day Vancouver Energy project is progressing.
The state of Washington issued a preliminary report on rail and marine safety which is currently in the comment period with the final report to be issued March 1 2015.
During the third quarter we submitted the complete Preliminary Draft Environmental Impact Study to the Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC.
We expect EFSEC to release the draft environmental impact study for public comment and begin the adjudicative phase shortly which is the last stage prior to a recommendation being submitted to the governor of Washington.
The joint venture will begin construction of the facilities upon governor approval of the project and the issuance of permits.
Project construction is estimated to take 9 next 12 months.
However initial operations are expected to begin within a few months of construction start.
During the third quarter we submitted the initial permits for the Los Angeles integration project which is designed to improve the flexibility of gasoline and diesel yields and reduce emissions at the Los Angeles refinery.
We expect the project which is still subject to final regulatory and board approval to be completed in early 2017.
We are also progressing forward with a review and commercialization efforts around our projects to construct a mixed xylene extraction unit in Anacortes which will be supplied primarily with reformate from our Martinez and Anacortes facilities.
This is another example of our continuing efforts to enhance gross margins by improving yields to produce higher valued products.
We expect to make a final investment decision in early 2015 around a 15 000-barrel per day project which will cost around $400 million and be completed in 2017 pending permitting and other approvals.
Tesoro continues to perform well.
We remain committed to driving shareholder value creation as we achieve the synergies and other business improvement targets we've set and focus on growing our Logistics business.
We remain confident in our future free cash flows and the long-term value of Tesoro.
And now we'll take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] [Audio Gap] Just a follow-up so the Pacific Northwest and I guess I jumped the gun on this the last quarter asking the questions surprised that the margins weren't better given some of the competitive changes up there.
But this quarter you definitely saw it.
Were there any unusual items in the Pac Northwest Alaska that we should think about or was it this is really probably the way this market should run in these conditions? There were no unusual conditions during the third quarter.
We ran extremely well as we stated and no other changes.
Okay.
And then onto the Port Vancouver can you give us an idea of maybe any milestones we need to watch here in the permitting process a comment from the government any sort of legal process that we have to focus on signature by the governor or a commission board or anything like that? There are no specific milestones that will be visible.
We go through the adjudicative process which is the opportunity for different public parties to engage in the process.
And then they make their recommendation to the governor and as we've said in the past the governor then has 60 days to act on it.
But there are no specific milestones that will be visible.
And any dates we should think about with those various commissions and boards? Is anyone facing any particular deadlines or anything like that? Well the deadline passed a long time ago.
It was supposedly a 1-year process but it's -- everything has been put forward being addressed by the EFSEC and the ball's really in their court to progress things through the adjudicative process.
Your next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you guys -- if you could share any -- maybe inside the sense assets that could add to your MLP asset base? And whether you believe that your MLP-able figures are apples-to-apples versus some of your refinery -- refining peers? Yes our assets that we've talked about are not probably apples-to-apples as best we can tell from what we read about what they look at.
We are looking at all of our assets and will determine what we will do in the future.
But I think the best thing Evan is that we're committed to over the next few years to continue to do drop-downs in the $300 million to $500 million range each year over the next several years.
That's our plans right now partly because we have other things we're trying to do as we grow the logistics business.
Research Division</strong> No -- I mean for sure.
Is there -- yes is there something we may hear an update on at the Analyst Day I mean particularly given some of the recent negative performance at TLLP given that would clearly augment the duration of that growth story? Yes I mean we'll share more of what our plans are.
We've actually been pretty clear that our -- one of our key priorities is to grow the third-party business for TLLP versus being dependent upon all of the drop-downs.
So we're going to complement drop-downs with third-party growth just as we did with QEP that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then maybe secondly for me.
Synergies are clearly doing well.
I mean can you discuss specifically where are you seeing the upside in the different buckets you provided in 2Q or is that something you're going to do more like maybe a longer duration timeframe before you can update there? Yes no we plan to lay out kind of build upon what we laid out last year at the December meeting and we'll do more of that.
But really across-the-board if you look at the 4 big buckets that we talked about around feedstock cost around the use of the logistics system production improvements and then just cost.
If you look at those 4 buckets then totaled up to be the total synergies.
In every area we're delivering and in some areas we've found other opportunities.
So it's a very encouraging story and the outlook is very positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Sam Margolin from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just want to circle back to QEP for a minute.
It seems like it opens up to a myriad of commercial opportunities probably more than we can go over on this call.
But I was wondering if there's any potential synergies with the Washington State rail facility if there's NGL export potential out of those terminals as well? Or if those are specifically Jones Act qualified and need to go to California on any kind of waterborne trade? I'm talking about some of the fractionation output from the QEPM? It's too premature for us to address that.
We know how it works today how the system works today and we haven't got into that point where we would try to find any changes.
We think there are opportunities with that refining system with some of the NGLs and that but we're not in advance enough understanding of the assets to determine that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with retail I thought -- I think we all thought 2Q was a blowout quarter and then third quarter comes in even higher.
Just to circle back strategically those types of assets seem to be garnering higher and higher valuations by the day.
Are there any considerations for moving it into TLLP or potentially another vehicle for it as you sort of consistently build EBITDA there? I know it's important with RINs within the system but just if it's scaled now for anything strategic? Yes our first priority is to continue to build out a strong system to support our refining business.
As we said all along we want a very highly high-quality integrated system and we continue to make good progress like I mentioned in the call with growth in the branding of the Exxon and Mobil brands.
So we're -- that's our first priority.
At the same time we will look at ways to see where is the best value to be captured in that and we're not just at a stage where we're going to make any commitments on what we're going to do that yet.
But we're very aware of the value of the marketing business and the different options.
But we really want to stay focused on growing that value right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I was just thinking about [Technical Difficulty] So it's Mr.
Brad Heffern from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just take a second to sort of walk through the dynamics you're seeing in the ANS market currently.
Obviously we had the first cargo of crude being exported there since 2000 recently.
So do you think that's sort of a one-off event or something we're going to be seeing more of? Well we don't control the export of ANS crude oil.
So we were aware that there was a cargo that was exported.
But the competition for ANS pricing has picked up as everyone's saying throughout the year and now you can see where the differentials are for ANS.
So the market looks to us to be pricing fairly from a refining standpoint relative to our other alternatives in that and it's kind of like we've expected to develop over time.
But the exports is a whole different story.
You'd have to have the people who produce and what they're going to do with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then I think you mentioned on Salt Lake City we were expecting it to come on in the spring.
Am I to assume that everything is on schedule there and we're on budget? Yes Salt Lake City is progressing extremely well.
Sometime at the end of the first quarter very beginning of the second quarter the project will be completed and we'll be ramping up to the higher levels of the waxy crude and increased production capacity a little bit.
So we're in good shape.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay then last one for me.
I assume that and part of the reason that you announced some xylene project and you did was to sort of see what the market response to it was.
Can you talk through what the response has been that you've seen thus far? Well we announced some xylene project because that's what we intend to build the mixed xylene plant is why we announced it and the market response has been extremely favorable from key customers that we have targeted in Asia.
Mr.
Paul Sankey's back and so you've got questions from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Greg a few couple of years maybe longer ago you used to have a line that you thought you could make I think it was $250 million of EBITDA at a given margin I can't even remember what we used.
Obviously a lot of stuff has changed since then.
Do you have a similar rule of thumb now because we do struggle with the volatility of the earnings that you get in California? But obviously on a kind of through the cycle basis it would be helpful if you had something that could just indicate what you think you can make on an annualized run rate.
You're talking about California? LLC</strong> Well I think it was California that you said but it might have been Tesoro-wide actually now that I think about it.
I think it was like at the Analyst Meeting 2 or 3 years ago you told me I think it was $250 million of EBITDA or $15 California crack is what I seem to remember.
Well I'm not 100% certain I know what you're talking about but I can tell you that when we were in the process of acquiring that business from BP in Southern California at that point in time at around $14 or $15 LA crack spread.
The Tesoro business made about $0.5 billion and the economics on the -- for the acquisition was about $0.5 billion.
So the combined system before we could get in and drive all the improvements and that under those market conditions could make about $1 billion of EBITDA.
I think that's what we talked about.
LLC</strong> Right.
And so keep going then.
So basically what I'm trying to capture is how that's changed given all the moving parts that we've seen since then.
Where do you think that level is now? So as we have driven the synergies and all the improvements in the business in California it's definitely gone to a lot higher level.
And I think you'll see that unfold in the results.
Off the top of my head I don't know what our California results are year-to-date for the region what we have reported but that plus when you see the plants come out for next year you'll see that $1 billion that we talked about grow pretty significantly.
LLC</strong> Yes I guess what we struggled with over the years has been California and how to think about it through the cycle.
And maybe it will be something for the analyst meeting if we could get an idea of what that base will be aligned for all of the changes that have occurred and will occur because obviously the Bakken stuff is kind of somewhat easier to get comfortable with but the level of volatility that we're seeing in California has always been something that we struggle with.
Yes yes we can talk more about that at the analyst meeting.
I'd be glad too.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ryan Todd and he's from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up on Port of Vancouver.
You mentioned the potential to get barrels moving a couple of months after the permitting process but long before the port facility was constructed.
Can you remind us the throughput volume that you think you can achieve in the meantime? We haven't talked about the throughput volume but we have -- we've designed some ways that allow us to come into the facility while the tanks are being constructed and load directly on the ships.
So we haven't stated the volumes to start with.
But we have -- we can deliver 2 unit trains a day into their startup.
So it just depends on how it works out.
It's probably a little bit too early to talk about those volumes but they would be probably less than 50 000 barrels a day I would guess.
Research Division</strong> I guess it's still a relatively meaningful number in the interim? Yes yes could be.
Research Division</strong> And just on the West Coast market in general.
I mean obviously the arrival of the rail volumes to the West Coast is going to have a significant impact on general West Coast crude dynamics.
And then from what you can see right now are you seeing any signs of change in the market on the West Coast in anticipation of this or is this something that we think plays out once we start to see more meaningful volumes ramp up over the course of 2015? I think over this year you've seen ANS pricing behave a little bit differently relative to Brent than it has in the years past as additional volumes from a number companies have come on to the West Coast and it will continue to change.
And then I think not just from the Bakken but also you'll see changes with SJV with the heavy crudes coming on.
So we'll be delivering heavy crude into California from our rail system in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe one final one.
Just can you talk about what you're seeing demand-wise across your entire system and in California in terms of gasoline and distillate demand? I can't remember if you mentioned that in the comments earlier or not.
Yes I think that Steven said demand was up about 1.4% and demand continues on a year-on-year basis to look good.
I think last call or sometime we stated that the vehicle miles traveled in California are up at all-time highs.
We'll then move on to the next question which comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Greg in the second quarter that you have debt hedging north because of the crude oil price increased sharply at around the quarter end.
And in this quarter that it actually declined pretty sharply.
In addition to the reversal of whatever that you lost do we actually have any hedging gain or any inventory gain in the quarter? You're exactly right Paul.
During the end of the second quarter as Steven mentioned earlier in his comments the last 2 weeks of the second quarter we saw crude prices run up and we reported that we were impacted on our derivatives by about $77 million as a result of that run up.
There wasn't the same change in prices at the end of the third quarter.
So there are no significant impacts at the end of the third quarter of this year.
But during the quarter I mean you're aware of the dramatic fall in crude oil prices and we hedge our crude with derivatives.
So we match up our physical and the derivatives and that.
So we had additional derivatives gains during the third quarter but they're tied back to the loss on the physical barrels.
And there was no inventory impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay so yes not like that.
That's fine.
I understand.
And the second question on the self-help initiative.
Year-to-date your set rate [ph] is much higher than the run rate of the 2014 target.
Should we look at it as just seeing acceleration of the benefit from future year or this is add to the overall expected benefit? Our improvements are relative to what we said we were going to do this year.
It's not an acceleration.
It's exceeding what we said we were going to do Paul.
And as I mentioned briefly earlier that we're pretty positive on other opportunities that we have seen and I'd like to take the opportunity at our analyst call to lay out a similar plan like we did last year what we see on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So we should assume that the overall expectation over the next 2 or 3 years you thought that $400 million -- I think $450 million or $440 million is going to be higher? Yes has the potential to be higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the xylene project it seems to me you're going to go ahead with that.
Should we assume that that $400 million investment is going to be on top of the previous CapEx that you had laid out for the company? Or that you're going to try to live within whatever that you have previously set and trying to trim CapEx from other areas? So right at the end of this year we'll lay out our capital plan for the next couple of years and talk about how we're allocating capital to the -- especially to the high-return capital projects that will balance out with the opportunities that we have because -- you heard me speak earlier we also have the Los Angeles integration project to do also but we'll lay out a very clear plan of how we're going to allocate capital very effectively over the next couple of years in December.
Research Division</strong> A final one.
You mentioned that QEP acquisition your expected contribution is $250 million to $275 million EBITDA.
Just want to....
In '15.
Research Division</strong> 2015.
That is from Day 1 the run rate or that is the year-end run rate? No that's the contribution for 2015.
It's Day 1.
Research Division</strong> So yes for the actual contribution for 2015 that's what you expect to receive? That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Mr.
Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the release you had TLLP I think $250 million to $275 million and I think that was a lot higher than the recent run rate.
This is for that QEPFS acquisition.
So I'm just wondering some color on what the quick hits are that get you there so quickly? This is Steven.
So the $250 million to $275 million if you look at QEPFS their 2013 results were about $233 million.
If you get to the bottom end of the range you've got the synergy costs which are basically just the some costs that were in that business that will cease once we absorb it into our business.
And then there's some expectation based upon the projects that have been put in place and the growth within those basins to see some top line growth in the business as well and that gets you to the top end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And when I think about cost and what you did well with costs and it was an asset which BPA looked after perhaps but had not loved as much.
I mean is this your same expectation for the quality of the assets that you have at QEPFS? No the -- we are very very impressed with the quality of the assets.
We've had a good opportunity to go over the assets and the people who run those assets.
So actually very similar to Carson.
The quality of the assets in Carson and the caliber of people they're probably very comparable.
And so we believe that there's a very strong foundation of good business there.
There's good growth potential by working with the current producers who use the system.
But more importantly because we are a third-party provider that we can go out and bring on additional business on to the system in the Uinta basin and -- to enhance that system.
And then secondly it gives us an important platform to be able to go into North Dakota and expand our crude oil gathering pipelines storage operations and include the natural gas business there.
So that's kind of how we look at it for -- on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then switching topics I mean obviously we've got the Analyst Day coming up so maybe you're saving a lot for that.
But I mean it still feels like you've got a big plan of what you have to do in refining today when you think about cost and you think about Golden Eagle Mandan Salt Lake City and Kenai and some of that's coming through but it feels like there's also -- so maybe a little bit of color of what innings are we in do you think in terms of improving your overall refining footprint? I think we're making -- we're continuing to make very good progress.
Our -- probably the thing that is absolutely the most critical is our focus on our environmental health and safety performance which we've always said translates into higher reliability.
We're targeting to get to World Cup class reliability and I think if you look at the third quarter the third quarter is an excellent example of running extremely well which doesn't always happen but we've performed extraordinarily well.
And so I think across the system we have opportunities to continue to drive those type of improvements that we'll translate into an improved performance of the business in addition to the capital investments that we are making and that we have planned to make that will strengthen the performance of that business either by lowering the feedstock cost or enhancing yield and to a lesser extent improving the operating costs.
So I didn't answer your exact question on which inning but I think the point is we've made a lot of progress and there are still opportunities.
Research Division</strong> And then obviously we've got the transition to the low carbon fuel standard I think beginning Jan 1 next year.
Obviously oil prices being lower probably helps the market absorb the extra costs.
But maybe just an update on how this will affect your business in 2015? Yes so it's not as much the low carbon fuel standard.
I mean that's been in place here for a couple of years now but what happens in 2015 is as part of the AB32 is fuels under the cap where there is a fee collected from the motorists and given to the government and that fee based upon carbon prices right now would translate into about a $0.10 to $0.15 per gallon additional charge for the consumers.
And we've been very clear that we will add that fee on to the bills and pass it directly back on to the government and we don't see a lot of impact on demand in the short term and it's probably improved like you just said because of lower crude oil prices.
But we don't see a lot of impact on demand in the short term because of that fee.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jason Smith on for Doug.
Greg I might have missed this in your prepared remarks but the $75 million in CapEx that you guys pushed up this year what's driving that? And is that something we should expect to show up again in '15? It's timing of just execution of the projects and some of the stuff we have committed to towards the end of the year that's just going to fall into 2015.
So what we'll do Jason is we'll lay out a clear capital budget plan at the Analyst Meeting that we'll take into consideration the changes this year and then what we want to do in the next couple of years on a go-forward basis.
It does not have an impact on any part of our business that change.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And you mentioned I think in answer to Ed's question about running well in an environment where I think a lot of your peers were down.
What are you guys seeing in terms of industry downtime on the West Coast in the next few months? Everything that we've seen between now and the end of the year that the downtime is relatively light.
Research Division</strong> And maybe into the beginning of next year? I don't know if that's too far out at this point but...
Well it's not strong as a downtime it's also relatively light into the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one for me is I think you mentioned earlier in talking about ANS we've seen ANS Bakken narrow quite a bit.
I think it's about $9 right now and of your transport cost I think you also talked about $9.50.
Has that impacted your views on running Bakken crude oil at Anacortes? It has not over time no.
Research Division</strong> And so the third thing I mean you guys -- is it because you guys are really paying less than the crude price we're seeing on the screen or is it because of the product uplift you guys are getting? I mean we have a system that gathers right from the wellheads.
So we collect value all the way along from what we buy from the producers.
So we do have a little bit different position because of our logistical system in North Dakota.
Your next question comes from the line of Cory Garcia from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So taking a look at the Uinta oil pipeline project and recognizing you guys are still in sort of the engineering feasibility stage of that so more I guess from a conceptual point of view with December Analyst Day sort of coming up do you feel with TLLP with this recently closed or soon to close acquisition are we at a point where logistics company has the scale in your eyes to actually co-invest on a project of that scale and on sort of a meaningful amount? I mean that's -- yes we do think that's a possibility.
We haven't determined how we'll go forward with that but that is definitely an option.
But it could be done either through Tesoro or Tesoro Logistics.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And I guess we've also heard sort of changing topics here.
Some of your competitors have said sort of the Gulf Coast heavy market particularly Maya has been retired in recent months and arguably Maya has its own sort of independent dynamics.
But any color on the LATAM? Heavy or medium barrels in north end sort of a much lighter crude slate across your West Coast system.
Is that really simply a function of filling in some top-ins in light of stronger gas cracks you guys have seen or is there something on the crude side that is pushing you more toward a lighter barrel.
No the crude distillate on the West Coast haven't changed a lot for the crudes that you're talking about and -- but if you recall I did mention we have -- we're having good success in trying some different crudes there.
I think I mentioned we've run over 20 different crudes just this year in Los Angeles as we look forward for the crude position.
Then we also intend to deliver Canadian heavy into California by rail this quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from that line of Mr.
Mohit Bhardwaj from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Greg just the first one on QEPM.
If you look at the synergy expenses do we have an idea how much those might be? You said -- the integration expenses I'm sorry? Around $20 million.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the $250 million to $275 million number how much of that is because you guys would be resigning the keep hold [ph] contracts with QEPFS and because of that the fee would increase for QEPM but Tesoro would have to take the commodity exposure to that? Well there are no changes in the contracts.
We inherent the existing contracts the way they are.
So that part does not change.
We have stated that we intend to do a contract with Tesoro and the commodity exposure will -- from this QEP Field Service acquisition will move from Tesoro Logistics to Tesoro as part of the transaction.
We want to manage that within our portfolio of commodities.
Mohit just one clarification the $20 million is the synergy savings that we'll get as part of the acquisition as we got closer to Day 1 close which will probably -- we have a chance of getting that done.
At the Analyst Day we'll talk to you about integration process and what this cost will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And just on California synergies so Carson City has been running through the system for 5 full quarters now and if you were just trying to match up some of the numbers that you gave us on a per barrel basis unit cost if you compare for the last 2 quarters of 2013 versus the first 3 quarters here they've actually gone up.
And on the capture side if I compare with Tesoro Index it was close to 100% for the last 6 months and last year and today it is for the first 9 months around 110%.
So you do see the 10% uplift.
Is that the right way to look at it? Or how should we think about just matching up some of the numbers that you provided us? Yes the way you looked at it is fine.
The big change in costs though is attributable to natural gas prices.
And you talked about the higher cost it's due to natural gas.
Research Division</strong> Very well.
And final one for me energy transfer and we're looking at the pipeline.
DAPL and energy transport crude pipeline it will start from the Bakken.
Does it provide additional opportunities for Bakken area storage hub and what might that look like? Yes it potentially does.
It's too early to know for sure about that but it definitely because of our position there it has some potential opportunity with what they're trying to do.
There are no further questions.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Have a good day.