Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2014 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Nigel and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Brian Randecker Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings.
Joining me today are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO; and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which were filed with the SEC today.
These slides along with other financial disclosures and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings slides which say statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Brian.
I'll review some highlights of our results talk about our outlook and then hand the call over to Greg.
We are pleased to report our 2014 results which represent our record level of earnings for Tesoro.
Net income from continuing operations was $872 million or $6.67 per diluted share versus $392 million or $2.85 per diluted share for the full year 2013.
Excluding special items we delivered $887 million or $6.79 per diluted share versus last year's $383 million or $2.79 per diluted share.
This translated to adjusted EBITDA of $2.29 billion.
For the full year 2014 the results from discontinued operations included a loss of $29 million versus income of $20 million for the full year 2013.
The results shown in discontinued operations related to our Hawaii business.
In the fourth quarter of this year we incurred a charge for expected regulatory maintenance work as required by the sales agreement.
For the fourth quarter 2014 we reported earnings from continuing operations of $172 million or $1.34 per diluted share that compares to a net loss from continuing operations in the fourth quarter last year of $4 million or negative $0.03 per diluted share.
Excluding special items the company earned a $187 million or $0.46 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
This adjusted EPS for the $1.46 excludes $0.12 related to a few special items.
These are primarily related to an expense of $0.09 per diluted share related to integration cost associated with the completion of TLLPs $2.5 billion 2014 Rockies Natural Gas business acquisition and the inventory charge due to the lower of cost-to-market valuation of $0.20 per diluted share this is a result of the significant decline in crude oil and product prices.
$0.03 per share for throughput efficiency receivables from the Rockies Natural Gas business and finally we excluded the benefit of $0.20 per diluted share related to a legal settlement.
As you look at our performance this quarter there are couple of additional items that affected results but were not part of our initial guidance for the quarter nor were they adjusted out of the EPS.
The following two items had a negative impact of $0.37 per diluted share.
These items included $69 million of compensation related expenses for Tesoro and $17 million environmental accrual in our logistics business.
The compensation related expenses represent approximately $37 million of annual incentive compensation expenses which were crude in Q4 based on our strong 2014 earnings performance.
The results were $32 million of variable based stock compensation expenses related to the significant upward movement in our share price in the quarter.
And finally the Tesoro Logistics environmental accrual for approximately $17 million related for the August 2013 crude oil pipeline release at Tioga North Dakota.
This represents an increase in the remediation cost associated with that release expected to be spent over multiple years.
Let’s review each of the segments starting with refining.
Operating income was $151 million for the quarter compared to $107 million last year.
2014 full year operating income was $1.29 billion compared to $873 million in 2013.
Throughput for the quarter was 808 000 barrels per day or 95% utilization.
Total throughput for 2014 was 825 000 barrels per day or 97% utilization.
This was a record daily production level for Tesoro and was a direct result of our operational excellence and safety improvement focus.
Direct manufacturing in the fourth quarter of 2014 relative to the third quarter were up $0.12 per barrel to $5.44 a barrel.
The Tesoro Index was $9.45 per barrel for the quarter.
The overall gross margin for the quarter was $11.08 per barrel or 117% of the Tesoro Index.
The 2014 operating income improvements have been achieved under a flat Tesoro Index which averaged $10.90 per barrel in 2014 and $10.85 per barrel in 2013.
Operating income in logistics segment was $37 million up $16 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The substantial growth has been driven by increased throughput volume in the High Plains system in North Dakota and significant growth from the Southern California distribution system.
On December 2 2014 TLLP completed the $2.5 billion acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas business marking a significant step towards our vision of creating a full service integrated logistics company.
As part of this transition Tesoro acquired an additional $500 million of TLLP units which brings our total ownership to 28.2 million units or 36% of the outstanding LP units.
The declared fourth quarter GP distributions are expected to be around $16 million or $65 million annualized.
This is a 15% increase from what our GP distributions were last quarter.
The retail segment's record operating income was $195 million for the quarter.
We experienced higher same-store fuel sales during the quarter of 1.5% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
The retail segments record operating income in the fourth quarter was the result of favorable market conditions resulting from strong demand and decreasing crude oil prices.
Lower retail prices have resulted in strong consumer demand and sales from our ARCO Shell and our expanded Exxon and Mobil retail networks.
2014 was a record full year for our retail segment with $424 million of segment operating income.
These outstanding results demonstrate the strategic value of our integrated business model.
Corporate and non-allocated cost were $101 million including $4 million of corporate depreciation.
This is higher than our guidance and run rate of $60 million due to higher compensation related costs that I mentioned a moment ago.
Let's now focus on cash and capital structure.
Consolidated sources of cash included a quarterly EBITDA of $489 million and changes in working capital and other items of about $270 million as well as TLLPs debt and equity proceeds of $2.1 billion to fund the acquisition.
Uses of cash include the $2.5 billion acquisition cost capital and turnaround spending of about $420 million Tesoro and TLLP shareholder distributions and buybacks of about $220 million and cash interest and taxes of about $240 million.
Even after investing $400 million in income capital projects $500 million in TLLP and returning $500 million to investors in the form of share repurchases we ended the year with a strong cash balance of $1 billion.
Total consolidated debt was $4.3 billion Tesoro's portion was under $1.7 billion.
Excluding TLLP debt and equity Tesoro's total debt to capitalization ratio was 27%.
We had excess revolving credit capacity of approximately $2.2 billion on a corporate revolver.
During the fourth quarter Tesoro returned about $187 million to shareholders through the purchase of nearly 2.2 million shares for $150 million as well as regular quarterly dividend of $37 million.
Tesoro completed the previously existing $1 billion share repurchase program during 2014.
Based upon the substantial business improvements made and the resulting improvements in cash generation we also announced today the Board of Directors has approved an increase in the regular quarterly dividend by 40% to $0.425 per share.
Turning now to the first quarter outlook.
Please see the PowerPoint slides posted on our website for Q1 outlook on production levels cost per barrel depreciation and other items.
This guidance assumes the strike continues on through the end of the first quarter as we are prepared to continue safely operating our facilities.
The throughput and manufacturing cost assume our Martinez facility will remain terminal operations until the end of the strike moreover we are in a process of developing plans to restart the facility the guidance figures may change if the strike concludes prior to the end of the first quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thanks Steven.
2014 was a very successful year for the company.
We continue to build upon the foundation by focusing on our strategic priorities and the company is well positioned to continue creating significant value.
We exceeded the distinctive performance objectives we laid out for the company and have continued to transform Tesoro with a $2.5 billion acquisition of the Natural Gas Business within Tesoro Logistics.
Not only did we achieve record financial results last year in nearly every business segment but also had excellent safety and operational performance.
Our continued focus on those objectives has led to 2014 being the safest year in Tesoro’s history and has allowed us our refining assets to run over 98% availability.
In 2014 we returned over $600 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases and invested an additional $500 million in Tesoro Logistics maintaining our 36% ownership of TLLP.
We are very pleased with the results of all segments of our business during the fourth quarter.
We achieved a 117% capture rate of the Tesoro Index realized record retail results and continue to grow logistics with the closing of the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas business.
We have a few strategic updates since our Analyst Day in December.
As you are well aware the United Steel Workers Union has not reached a contract agreement and has declared a strike at several locations across the country.
We were notified late on January 31 at the USW Represented Employees at our Anacortes Washington Refinery the Carson Portion of our Los Angeles California Refinery; and our Martinez Refinery filed notices of intent to strike affective February 1.
Our comprehensive contingency planning has prepared us to safely operate our facilities.
We successfully completed the transitions and are operating the Carson Portion of our Los Angeles Refinery and our Anacortes Refinery.
Given the USW decision to strike during planned ongoing maintenance at our Martinez Refinery the safest operating option at the time was to safely idol the remaining process units.
At Tesoro safety is a core value and it is evident in everything we do from operations in our refineries to managing our logistics assets to day to day activities on our headquarters and other location.
Within our refineries we have proactive and progressive personal safety and process safety programs.
Because of the unknown duration of the work stoppage and nature of our business we won’t speculate on the financial impact that this will have on our business.
Our first quarter guidance does take into account the impact on throughout and per barrel operating cost.
The permit process for the Vancouver Energy Project to construct 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail to marine terminal is continuing to progress with Washington State’s Energy Facility Site Evaluation Committee or EFSEC.
EFSEC has begun the adjudicative phase and based on the schedule it's laid out is expected to release the draft environmental impact statement in May of this year.
We still expect EFSEC will submit its recommendation to the Governor of Washington once it completes the adjudicative phase.
We are very pleased with our progress in execution of our goals in 2014.
We delivered $560 million towards the five distinct key performance objectives we laid out.
First delivering the California synergies; second enhancing our gross margin; third driving other business improvements across our system of assets; fourth further growing our logistics business for TLLP; and finally we did all of this while maintaining strong financial discipline.
We exceeded the original targets we laid out back in December of 2013 by 30% or $130 million.
The execution around these goals has led to superior financial results but also leading shareholder results.
Tesoro clearly outperformed the market last year as the best performing energy stock in the S&amp;P500.
Even with the major successes we had in executing and delivering results in 2014 I am truly excited that we have the opportunity to exceed the 2014 improvements this year.
Looking forward we committed to delivering an additional $550 million to $670 million of improvements in 2015.
We expect to deliver $95 million to $125 million towards West Coast improvements a $130 million to $170 towards capturing margin improvements and $325 million to $375 million towards growing logistics.
Achieving these goals along with our 2014 accomplishments we expect to improve Tesoro’s results by over $1 billion in this two year period.
As evidenced through all we have accomplished we continue to drive significant value from our existing asset base and the optimization of our portfolio of assets.
We are continuously looking forward at identifying new ways to grow the value of our business.
We are focused on our commitment to our strategic priorities and maintaining and improving the competitive position of our assets.
We are also committed to drive continuing improvements in our personal and process safety in environmental performance.
And now we will take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning Greg and Steve.
Good morning Neil.
So today we start off on the union negotiations here can you just talk about the timelines recognizing that there are lot of parties involved in leading the negotiations.
And then also you made a comment that you theoretically could restart Martinez even if the strike persist under - how would you approach doing that? So the first answer to question the negotiations at a national level are being conducted by Shell like you're probably aware and so Shell represents the industry to get national negotiations and those discussions are ongoing as we speak.
At a local level we have negotiated with all of our local market units and are actually in a very good place locally so we are very comfortable where we stand with the local level.
And then finally Martinez I think it's important that we were in that process of a major maintenance effort to refinery when the USW the international elected to call a strike and we were just a few days away from turning the process units over from maintenance to the operating groups so that they could began the start-up process.
Because of the timing of the strike we made the decision that it was in our best interest to be very responsible and just shut down the remaining units because one of the most critical things is the restart of the refinery after it's been down for maintenance.
So since that time we are now developing plans to go back and restart the refinery and get it up into an operating condition and that's what we're working on right now and we'll continue to do that so we can do it in a very safe and efficient manner.
Thanks Greg.
And then on the Pacific Northwest you had a terrific quarter last quarter it was a little softer here in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk about sequentially anything that might have changed 4Q versus 3Q in the Northwest? The Balkan discs were just little bit weaker in the fourth quarter because of the movement in the crude oil prices versus the prior quarter.
We're still moving the same we're still moving about the same amount of Balkan crude oil to the Pacific Northwest but the differentials were just weaker.
And - last question for me Greg just a relative split between buybacks and dividends as you go forward here nice 40% dividend raise but just as you think about - how you think about allocating capital to the buyback versus the dividend any color there would be appreciated.
Neil our approach regarding dividend is to maintain a competitive dividend relative to our peer so we look at yield and we look at the payout ratio and that's always been our intent to do that.
The dividend the stock buyback as here Steven - maybe both Steven and I mentioned in our comments that we completed the $1 billion buyback that was authorized by the Board in this year will just begin our buyback of the next $1 billion that was authorized in the summer of 2014.
So it's really that's how we look at the allocation between the two.
Thank you very much Greg.
Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Phil Gresh JP Morgan.
Good morning.
Good morning Phil.
First question just a follow-up on the strike should we think that there might be any impact just in the near term cost of synergy capture projects in terms of - kind of the ability to execute on that in the first quarter or how do you think about that? Not at this time Phil as we have our plans and we had contingency plans developed in the event of any type of work stoppage and at the same time we have our plans that are really build out around all of the operations to drive the improvements across the businesses I just talked about.
So we do not see any issues with delivering those today.
Got it okay.
And the guidance on the throughput outside of California was a bit lower than what I was thinking.
Is it having our maintenance quarter just maybe how to think about that first quarter maybe versus what the full year might look like for the other regions relative to 2014? Yes the guidance - we had Martinez down for maintenance which was planned maintenance as we just spoke about we also have - towards the end of the first quarter we have Salt Lake City going down for our completion of the conversion project that we have been working on now for about three years which allows us to process higher levels of waxing crude and increase the yield improve the yield that's going down and then we also have Anacortes towards the end of the first quarter going down for planned maintenance also.
Got it okay so maybe the full year should still be fairly similar in terms of operating rates outside of California? Yes it will be.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the dividend buyback question obviously you are talking about competing on a yield as well as payout ratio nice problem to have with your stock going up so much but your yield with this huge increases around 2% some of your peers are actually now targeting something in the 3% range.
So I'm just curious how you're thinking about that? Yes I feel at this stage we knew the 2% is a competitive yield considering the dynamics of stock movements and appreciation and we also look at the total return so not only we look at the yield we also look at the total shareholder return against we compare that.
So I would say some moving - it kind of moves what I understand.
Sure okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Thanks.
Good morning Greg.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Greg I guess the strike is probably not something you're feeling particularly good about right now given the pipeline under the system but obviously it's had a big impact on margins and the region.
I'm just wondering if you can help frame for us what - how you see the prognosis for the West Coast generally assuming that things come back to normal.
Do we end up with kind of more structural tightening for the whole of 2015 as a result of the shortages or is there a fix that brings back - buy things where I can take it normal [ph]? As you would call in the past Doug as we've kind of laid out the basic fundamentals of the West Coast market when we look at supply demand inventory levels refinery utilization all of those factors have indicated; first time from a gasoline standpoint that - hope you looked at the last period of time of operating a relatively balanced market slightly on gasoline which is being exported and then a little bit longer on diesel but a very high utilization rates for the industry and so as we see going now into 2015 we already - the impact of the downtime Martinez was already felt by the market because it had been down before the disruption and it's only been a few days since that's happened that we shut down the rest of the processing unit and we'll develop our plan to be able to restart the refining but at the same time you also have a number of other maintenance activities going on across the regions that will continue to have an impact on supply and demand.
So our overall outlook as we've stated in the past is that the fundamentals of the West Coast market are very supportive to the margin outlook in that so we see versus historical margin after West Coast being very attractive.
I don't know if you would be able to answer this one but it's - when these kinds of things happen one of the things I struggled with is the relative profitability of the LA Complex relative to Martinez.
So just - qualitatively can you frame for us which of the two refinery is really the bigger driver of margin debt or are they both kind of more or less the same? On a relative basis the Los Angeles Complex has a higher profitability contribution to the company than Martinez.
It's helpful thanks a lot.
Last one from me is I think in Steven’s prepared remarks he talked about identifying or noting strong demand as a result of the lower oil price on your retail business I am just wondering if you could put some numbers around that because obviously same-store demand - is something we're all watching in terms of various tangible impacts so any color on that? Thank you.
Yes probably two points Doug one is year-on-year 14% versus 13% up around about 1.5% for us on same-store sales.
And in the first few weeks of this year we're up slightly so far but not anything significant but it's real early in this time of the year when we already had a pretty strong January of 2013.
Great really helpful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Yes good morning.
Just a small question on the USW impact on Martinez is there going to be some big sort of - I guess product import or cost as well as the cost of not having the refinery run just as you're trying to adjust the systems and meet your retail demand? We're very confident that we have plans in place to be able to meet all of our supply requirements for all of our customers across the system.
And so as we look out overtime we feel - I can provide that we will be able to meet that and any purchases in that were done at a market basis so we don't see any impact.
Great.
So coming back to QEPSS and OPEC I mean obviously oil prices gas prices NGL prices were fallen since the Analyst Day and I'm just wondering if you could put some color in terms of the $400 million of high return capital projects that you're looking to put in place there and further growth beyond that how is the term of the conversations or the pace of your activity in that area changed as a result of the fallen commodities? It's a good question.
The majority of those projects that comprise the organic growth capital for Tesoro Logistics were in development committed to by our customers and are advancing without any slowdown.
The only item that we have is the expand the reversal of the high plains pipeline which were in open seas and right now we'll have an indication here in the next a little bit but most of our work in the North Dakota with the pipelines has been the core of the production fields and helps drive cost savings and efficiencies for the producers.
So we're quite positive on the outlook for both the natural gas business in our area and the Balkan crude oil business.
And one of it was the question around attracting additional third-party volumes to the existing system now that it was under the TLLP banner as supposed to QEPSS is there be any evidence of that actually occurring? We can't say it could - no you're right it is early but we've had good engagement with our targeted customers in that and it's in early discussions to identify opportunities in that but there are some encouraging opportunities that were in development.
Okay.
Very final small question any derivative gains in the quarter I know in the second quarter there was a big cost for you called out the third quarter was a bit flat and I would have just assumed as oil fell there would be a derivative gain so just trying to get a sense of if not why not.
Yes let me ask Steven to respond to your question Ed.
Hey Ed you know the second quarter was sort of general approach to managing our derivative portfolios it's really to put hedges in places that all said are long duration water bond shipments.
So in general you shouldn't see any kind of net drop down in derivatives.
We only saw that back in the second quarter because of some dynamics right at the end of the quarter that created some volatility.
So now in general I look at these numbers kind of assuming that that derivative portfolio simply was offset by physical positions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Brad Heffern RBC Capital Market.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Brad.
So some of your competitors have been talking about just a sheer volume of waterborne crudes that are currently attempting to find their way into our refinery somewhere I'm wondering if you are seeing the same sort of benefit on the West Coast from an optimization standpoint as your peers on the Gulf might be seeing? Crude supply is - has good availability of all the crudes that we want to get access to there is nothing unusual the West Coast wouldn’t behave exactly like the Gulf Coast does from that standpoint but we have good access to all of the types of crudes that we want to be able to bring into our system as you would expect.
Okay understood.
And obviously there is very large content going in the market right now are there any particular way where you're seeing benefit from that? Not really I mean we've got our pricing in place and the crude discs and everything is kind of where we would expect them to be in our - versus our plan and so nothing unusual at this stage.
Okay.
And then I think that the AB32 fuels under the camp - component is now out in the market is there - have you been able to offset that additional charge to the consumer in terms of fuel margins? You are exactly right as of January 1 of this year the portion of the regulation where the tail pipe emission went into effect happened and we as a company choose to enumerate that on the bill elating to all customers so it is a direct pass through from us to the customers and then repayment back to the State of California and that's gone very very smoothly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Good morning.
Jeff from Simmons.
Greg I was hoping you might be willing to share a little bit on any stress testing you might have done with the dividend increase did you review that based on historical margins say - they don't know margins or some kind of forward looking scenario analysis and should we assume the EBITDA enhancements kind of permanently raise the profitability of the company? Let me ask Steven Jeff to respond to your question.
Hey Jeff.
We - I think that the starting point as Greg mentioned is around capital deployment and having a balanced approach to that making sure we've got adequate liquidity on the balance sheet to deal with any type of volatility that can be there making sure we've got capital deployed this quarter high return growth projects; and then having a dividend overtime that's competitive with the industry not only just looking at yield but also looking at our payout ratio and making sure that we're balanced on that as well Shell purchases.
And so we do look at dividends and all these deployment of cash on a long term basis and try to look across the cycle.
So for us as we look back if you go back to 2010 even where the company was earning about $500 million of EBITDA versus 2014 at $2.3 billion as we showed at Investor Day there is really no market uplift in there really is business improvement projects since the improvements in our portfolio so as we look forward and we think about the cash generating capability of the portfolio it's much stronger today than it was back in those periods of time that you mentioned.
So we do take that into account as well as look at new stress test the margins over the cycle and feel good about the decision that we've made.
And now with the upcoming maintenance plan for quarters is there any potential impacts if in any event the strike is extended? Would - is there a possibility you might delay that maintenance or is it not likely to be impacted? No at this point in time we are advancing forward with our plans to - we have everything in place to be able to do the maintenance at the refinery and so we see no disruptions or distractions to that work right now.
So that would not be ideal delay in marketing as you are in a position to move forward with that? Yes completely move forward as planned.
Thanks for your comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng Barclays.
Hey guys good morning.
Greg I - maybe I got you wrong last slide seems like there is something come across - talking about the West Coast worker on strike is that in any shape or form is going to impact on the loading and unloading of all your product for the refinery operation? No.
Paul that does not have an impact on our movement of tankers on the West Coast.
Okay.
But you're right that's going on for some time.
Right so we should not concern that this will have an additional element that impacting operation? No not at this stage.
And I'm wondering if you will be willing to share the insight I know you are not representing the industry on the national level what is the biggest point on the negotiation at this point? I think it's been pretty well spelled out by the media I think both the union has been clear there is a desire to try to have more of the maintenance activity done in the refining system by represented workers from the USW.
Okay.
So that's the biggest [ph] from the owner’s standpoint? That is one of the most - that's one of the primary things.
It's always our goal to be able to run our operations and use the safest most efficient ways to do our maintenance work.
And the industry historically they have done a good job on try to using the management in the non-union worker to maintaining normal operation if that's only - how long I mean that far you can go because it means people are not iron men at some point they get tired for overtime.
Do you think that you guys are pretty comfortable two months three months four months or that you think that this is too premature you don't want even one to speculate on that? First the industry hasn’t had a strike like this for 35 years so it's been a long time.
But everyone goes through pretty extensive planning because the people working in the refineries have to be certified so there is extensive training planning that goes on to do that and we feel very comfortable that we can continue on running with the staffing levels we have the trained and the experienced people we have operating the refineries and it's a very long period of time Paul.
Right.
Greg I don't know - part of my angle to understand because it never happened since I've been covering this space.
Let’s assume that if this strike go on for really long time is there an exit strategy or an option for the industry at some point you can start to hire permanent replacement? That's probably not something to talk about on a call like this Paul I think that's a strategy that every company would have to look at and see what's the right thing to do.
No no I'm talking about from a law standpoint from the labor law standpoint is there an option to allow the industry to do that? I don't know exactly we don't intended to go on that long but that's something maybe we can talk about at a later point in time.
Okay would do.
And that in terms of your balance sheet it's actually very strong - still very strong in the CCAP [ph] as you generally excess free cash are you comfortable with the current debt level in CCAP or that you may think that you want to reduce it from what? Let Steven comment around our capital structure.
Yes as we look at CCORP level having a total debt capital under 30% is a very comfortable place to operate.
We've talked about that overtime continuing to make improvements principally in the business to grow into an investment grade rating is the path forward so based on the overall cost-to-capital the cash generation of the business the flexibility we have with our current balance sheet delevering the balance sheet right now isn’t the highest priority but we've been - we have been doing that and we'll continue to move in that direction of investment grade but I think it will be stable over 30% and we're down to the 26% 27% level now I think that's a healthy place to be it gives us the most options.
Okay.
Final one do you guys buy your domestic crude through some form of CMA - taking into consideration of the interest rate or that you don't really do that? We have a variety of different ways that we price the domestic crude that we do so we use a number of different ways to do it Paul.
Okay thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess - interesting question you mentioned earlier as part of the strategy continuing to grow and in logistics side of the business - we're seeing some valuation changes there certainly relative to the performance of the refineries I was just wondering as you look out at future acquisitions in that area or investment opportunities what - how has that market changed since the Analyst Day and anything else you can add on that? Well you've seen a couple of transactions in that space in the last little bit some of them that are incredibly attractive I don't know for the seller anyway very attractive level.
So we - I think it's little better we either see kind of how the dust settles in that area and I think it's a matter of what type of assets for sale in that but no real good indication yet if it's going to change materially from what we have experienced over the last couple of years but I think we'll have to monitor and see what happens.
Okay so the status grow [ph] at this point? Yes from our standpoint.
Okay.
And then you mentioned the Port of Vancouver I was curious what are the - sort of hurdles or is there a specific date or event that has to occur - the we should be watching for here in terms of - is there a drop-dead date to get this to the Governor for his review? Can you remind us what amount of time he has to do the review before he has to render a decision one way or the other? Yes so there - it's not completely black and white as far as specific dates it was a positive sign that the counsellors - as we stated elected to move forward with the adjudicative process and so that process begins and depending on the number of interveners those who are - have questions about the project and those who supported get the opportunity to go forward.
And so the administrative law judge will manage that process of going forward so that for us was a very positive step forward by the EFSEC Council.
And then once they complete all of that work and they submit their recommendation the Council does to the Governor and the Governor has 60 days to give an opinion on that.
That we still feel very very good about the value of the project and every - all of the issues and everything that you deal with to get the permit seems to be progressing at a slower pace but progressing well.
Okay.
And if the Governor were to disapprove is that - you go to the next option or is there an appeal process for that? I mean I'm just - I'm not trying to prejudice the decision but just trying to understand what would be the next if it doesn't go forward at POV [ph]? I think we're very confident that they will approved but in the event that happens there is an appeal process.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Chi Chow Tudor Pickering Holt.
Thanks good morning.
Hey Chi.
Hi just a couple of more questions on TLLP.
With the high level of inward rigs being laid down what are the possible impacts on your gathering business going forward in this environment? At this stage Chi as we evaluated our TLLP operations through with discussions with producers and what we see going on we do not see any significant impact today with what's occurred so far it's something we'll have to monitor as we go forward but we do not see any significant impact today.
Okay.
I guess you noticed that you've collected on a deficiency payment in the fourth quarter can you comment on take or pay type provisions you might have with your customer commitment and are these collections going to be a trend going throughout this year? If you look historically at that business you tend to see some lumpiness with these deficiency payments typically in the second quarter and the fourth quarter.
And it's just a function of the timing of when this billings usually take place we do expect to continue to see this type of - and this was not unexpected this was part of the overall EBITDA level that we set for 2015 for the business so in the range as we gave you these during there so we do expect them to continue.
Okay.
So this is nothing unusual as far as the volume drop offs or anything like that to this point? No it's normal deficiency payments.
On the retail side do you have a statement regarding conversion of your company operated sites to MSO [ph] can you explain what's going on there? Yes to a certain we have an operating model in our marketing business the MSO stands for multi-site operator so we have agreements with independent business people who then go in and take a number of sites which they then operate we provide the gas and the pricing for the gasoline and they run the inside operations of the store.
So we elected to - so we had a model where we had some company operated and a lot of this MSO as you mentioned Chi and last year at the beginning of the year we elected to make the decision to take it to a full MSO model which we then completed at the end of December.
It has a slight improvement in profitability for us by operating the business that way versus us continuing to operate it.
How does that impact your in-store merchandize margins are you still capturing that or is that going to end going forward here? You know because they operate the station we have least arrangements and/or less so the net impact from a company standpoint is a slight positive taking into consideration fuel sales inside sales and the cost from leasing stations and everything like that.
So you would not see a significant difference from the financial standpoint.
I guess one final question on your turnaround guidance for 2015 it looks like it bumped up to $280 million which I believe is higher than what you laid out in the Investor Day meeting.
Can you talk about any changes there? Yes the difference between what we said at the Analyst Meeting and what we just said here you're exactly right this is slightly higher and it should be including the catalyst in that in our turnaround cost it wasn't part of our plan - part of our original number.
So the level of activity is unchanged Chi it's just - we didn't lump the two together when we talked about it at the end of December.
Okay great thanks I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Faisal Khan Citigroup.
Good morning guys.
Hi Faisal.
Hi just a few questions.
The first thing is I just want to understand a little bit about the NGL exposure you sort of housed at the corporate level so I understand that all that exposure the commodity price level for the key PMS [ph] that was sort of - further recontracted at the this sort of level.
So with NGL prices having dropped off and gas prices have been dropped off as much as they have we have seen a lot of sort of - degradation in guidance for a lot of the GMP companies in the midstream space let’s just try to understand how much of a drag is this sort of lower gas and NGL price environment on the overall sort of corporate earnings and then where to look for that in your results? Yes I want to first correct we elected to take the commodity exposure from TLLP and put that into deferral [ph] because it allows us to look at all of our NGLs overall from both - what we consume and what we sell.
The terms of the agreement are not at material impact in any way from Tesoro standpoint so as you correctly stated the market has been hit pretty hard in the last period of time here with the fact spread and things like that but even at the level where it is now and when you look forward there is no material impact whatsoever on Tesoro and it's - you can't see it in the numbers it's in our cost of goods sold number you don't see it.
Okay.
In the way I was looking at it is that these guys are doing $230 million $240 million in EBITDA those assets before and they still had a significant TOP in exposure so even with the degradation in the commodity prices it's not big enough impact here to overall results I just want to make sure I understand that.
That's correct.
Okay.
And then on the wholesale business - on your wholesale business I was wondering if you can give us a little bit of color in terms of the performance of that business in 2014 over 2013.
Is there a way that sort of talk about the margins overall margins in 2014 versus 2013 to see sort of what the uplift has been over the course of the year? The wholesale business has embedded in our refineries result so there isn’t anything that we should speak about on a year-on-year basis the overall marketing business has performed extremely well but we don't talk about the wholesale business separately.
Okay.
And then as I'm looking at the TLLP sort of dropdowns just assets of Tesoro to TLLP and I'm looking at the sort of the target of $150 million to $225 million in EBITDA by 2017 how much of that EBITDA is associated with sort of the wholesale business that can be put into the MLP? That we haven't defined any of that yet we know that we - as you recall we've talked about the overall portfolio of assets that could be sold from Tesoro to TLLP we said it's in access of $0.5 billion of EBITDA but we did not specifically identify what assets and when we would drop those down.
So we don't - we haven't put that into our plans going out to 2017.
Okay.
So the wholesale business is not part of those plans in the long term guidance for TLLP? It is part of the overall portfolio Faisal it's just part of the overall but not part of the specific plans to get to 2017.
Sure okay.
And then just - in the current market environment for spreads and for - sorry differentials is there any change to the sort of - the feedstock advantage that you guys had outlined that you would sort of be able to extract this year in 2015 so the $125 million I believe is sort of feedstock advantage in that pie on the Analyst Day you talked about you said - does that change at all in the current environment or is that still business as usual? No where we see the differentials and kind of how we looked at the market even before we've had a pretty dramatic collapse in crude oil prices.
It seems that we've identified that work and we do not see a change in that for 2015.
Okay.
And then a change in the outlook for the Xylene market in moving volumes to Asia in the long run is that still - even with the crude price dropped does that have any impact on the long term outlook for that market? No we - and we actually approved the Xylene project at our Board meeting yesterday to move forward and we announced the terms in what we're doing on that tomorrow so that project will be moving forward.
Okay understood.
And then just on the - on WCS and Balkan and moving that into the - moving those volumes into the West Coast understanding that at the Vancouver facility that that process is still ongoing.
Is there a desire to sort of increase the amount of WCS you're reeling in right now to California? I know you're maxed out at roughly 20 000 a day but is there ability for you to expand the facilities that plain has the field and move more WCS into central California? Well the movement just started in December if the Canadian have that we're moving into field and that will ramp up as the facility comes up so we'll take our full share that we've contractually committed to move in the Canadian crude into our refineries.
And is that still economic in the current environment to do that? I haven't looked at it I need to - we haven't - I haven't looked at it in the last little bit those things bounce around a lot you just have to look and see where they are overtime I don't know Faisal this time right now.
Okay fair enough.
I appreciate it I appreciate all the answers to the questions.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.