Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jen and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Sam Ramraj Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss the second quarter 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
While we will not be referencing slides during the call we do have a set of slides which was filed with the SEC yesterday.
These slides along with other financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing the results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statement in the earnings slides which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and/or future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our second quarter financial performance then hand the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported record quarterly earnings for Tesoro.
Second quarter 2015 net earnings from continuing operations was $586 million or $4.62 per diluted share compared to $224 million or $1.70 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2014.
EBITDA for the second quarter was approximately $1.2 billion.
This was a record for the company and represents an increase of 118% from $548 million last year.
Before discussing operating results I'd like to note a change in reporting within our Refining and Retail segments.
We have combined wholesale and retail operations into one segment now referred to as Marketing which reflects our current business model and shows the combined value of the sales channels we use to reach our customers.
In our supplemental financial and operational information that's provided on our website you can find historical results reflecting the new reporting structure.
Refining segment's EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $875 million an increase of 90% from $461 million a year ago.
This is primarily attributable to a significantly improved margin environment lower operating expenses and contributions from our business improvements.
Our total Refinery throughput for the quarter was 783 000 barrels a day or 92% utilization.
In April and May utilization was impacted by maintenance activities at our Salt Lake City and Anacortes refineries and the restart of our Martinez refinery following the labor disruptions.
We are pleased with how our assets operated towards the end of the quarter.
In June our overall utilization exceeded 100%.
The Tesoro Index was $21.61 per barrel in the second quarter of 2015 with a realized gross refining margin of $19.13 a barrel or 89% of the Tesoro Index.
This compares to a realized gross refining margin of $13.11 per barrel or 101% of the Tesoro Index last year.
This quarter's capture rate was impacted by various factors including our refinery downtime including the turnarounds I mentioned less advantaged crude oil differentials particularly in the mid-continent and running more intermediate feedstock in our California and Pacific Northwest refineries due to our turnarounds.
Manufacturing costs in the second quarter of 2015 decreased $0.30 per barrel over last year to $5.58.
This decrease was primarily due to lower energy prices.
The Logistics segment EBITDA was $154 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $65 million for the same period last year; this represents an increase of approximately 137%.
This improvement was driven by the Rockies natural gas business which delivered $66 million of EBITDA and increased volumes in our crude oil gathering business.
The declared general partner distributions are approximately $18 million for the second quarter and $32 million through the first half of 2015.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were about $81 million during the second quarter and $114 million for the first six months of the year.
The Marketing segment's EBITDA was $223 million up 128% from $98 million in the second quarter of last year.
This is primarily a result of strong consumer demand as Retail fuel volumes in the second quarter increased 3% over last year and are up 3.3% since the beginning of the year.
With the bulk of our planned turnarounds behind us we're looking forward to running our refineries at high utilization rates in the second half of the year and capturing attractive market conditions driven by strong consumer demand.
We expect overall utilization rates in the third quarter to be between 95% and 100% and capture rates to improve compared to the second quarter.
We had strong cash generation in the second quarter and we expect this to continue in the third quarter.
We continue to deploy cash to create value for our shareholders and during the second quarter we returned more than $300 million to shareholders including the purchase of nearly 2.8 million shares for $250 million and payment of about $53 million in dividends.
Currently we have $731 million remaining on our authorized $1 billion share repurchase program and we'll continue to buy back shares opportunistically.
We announced a dividend increase of approximately 18% to $0.50 per share from our current dividend.
We ended the second quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1 billion an increase of more than $0.5 billion from the first quarter.
Our sources and uses of cash can be found on the set of slides we published yesterday which also outline our second quarter results and third quarter outlook.
In the set of slides we provide details of our planned throughput manufacturing cost per barrel and other elements related to our third quarter outlook.
We're very pleased with our results in the second quarter and look forward to continuing to drive earnings growth in the third quarter and the rest of the year by focusing on running our refineries safely and reliably capturing value across our integrated business model executing on our business improvement programs and being financially disciplined.
This allows us to continue to grow the business and return cash to shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steven.
We are pleased with our performance in the second quarter.
We achieved record levels of EBITDA net income and EPS and returned in excess of $300 million to shareholders.
Also we delivered over $325 million in business improvements in the first half of the year.
Turning to operations.
Our Refining business was supported by favorable economic factors declining energy prices improved product cracks and higher demand despite weaker crude oil differentials.
As a result the Tesoro Index in the second quarter averaged over $21 per barrel.
Natural gas prices declined approximately 40% in the second quarter and this translated to lower energy costs for our refining operations.
U.S.
gasoline demand continues to benefit from the peak driving season.
Additionally we see positive indicators in the marketplace from lower gasoline prices higher vehicle miles traveled and increased auto sales.
U.S.
vehicle miles traveled in May increased to 275 billion miles which is a record.
This was aided by an improving labor market and lower gasoline prices.
The California economy is strong and the market continues to improve.
For instance the unemployment rate in California declined to 6.3% in June.
Vehicle miles traveled through June increased this year to approximately 94 billion miles up 3.2% from the same period last year and PADD 5 gasoline demand increased by approximately 3% year-to-date and diesel demand improved by approximately 3% over last year.
Now addressing our West Coast operations our California refineries ran well in the second quarter and throughput was 523 000 barrels per day.
The Martinez refinery resumed operations in April after maintenance activities and our Los Angeles refinery ran in excess of 100% utilization for the quarter.
The third quarter has continued to experience a very strong margin environment driven by growing gasoline demand.
We are optimizing our West Coast operations to maximize gasoline production during this market and continue to maintain a very competitive position.
Shifting to our mid-continent region our Mandan refinery performed well in the second quarter and we completed the turnaround at our Salt Lake City refinery.
In addition to the turnaround we had unplanned maintenance activities that affected normal operations in Salt Lake during June.
This impacted our overall throughput increasing operating expenses per barrel and lowered gasoline production and capture rates in our mid-continent region.
This is now behind us and the Salt Lake City refinery is running at 100% capacity.
Now moving to our Logistics business.
TLLP announced another strong quarter of earnings growth supported by increased volumes in its crude oil and natural gas gathering and processing operations.
We completed the integration of the Rockies natural gas business in May and then closed the merger of QEPM in July.
Through the first half of the year the Rockies natural gas business contributed $141 million of adjusted EBITDA.
We anticipate the Rockies natural gas business to contribute $275 million EBITDA in 2015 which is at the upper end of the range we announced when we acquired the business late last year.
We remain focused on strategic third-party opportunities and drop-downs to grow TLLP's portfolio of logistics assets around our Western U.S.
footprint.
Tesoro expects to offer TLLP the opportunity to acquire crude oil and refined product storage and pipeline assets in Los Angeles in the form of a dropdown in the fourth quarter.
We expect these assets to deliver annual EBITDA to TLLP in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
TLLP now expects to deliver $640 million to $680 million of EBITDA for full year 2015.
We are well on our way to delivering our $1 billion EBITDA target by 2017.
We are very pleased with the growth prospects of our Logistics business through the focus on growing and optimizing its stable fee-based business expanding its backlog of high return organic growth projects and pursuing strategic third-party acquisitions and drop-down opportunities.
Now to discuss our Marketing business this segment contributed significantly to our performance for the first half of the year and we improved our Marketing integration to 93% from 85% a year ago.
We have undertaken initiatives to realign our Marketing business.
For instance we recently transitioned our company-owned operations to multi-site operator model.
We also revised our segment presentation during the quarter.
Further we are evaluating our long-term growth strategy for our Marketing business and look forward to providing an update later this year.
Now to provide you an update on our strategic projects.
Through the first half of 2015 we delivered $325 million of business improvements.
We remain confident in delivering on our commitment of approximately $670 million of year-over-year earnings growth from Tesoro-specific projects.
We use tools like Lean Six Sigma to improve operational effectiveness which contributed to the overall business improvements.
Even though the first half of the year was challenging due to the labor disruption and maintenance activities our teams have stepped it up and delivered on these commitments.
For the first half of the year we delivered approximately $70 million in West Coast improvements against our goal of $95 million to $125 million for the full year.
Contributing to this improvement are benefits from our Los Angeles synergies including crude optimization optimization from sourcing new types of crude crude blending capabilities at the Carson crude terminal that resulted in higher throughput volumes new cargo sharing between the Martinez refinery and Los Angeles and improved pipeline connectivity between the Los Angeles refinery sites.
We have continued our efforts to increase the use of advantaged feedstocks through our system and delivered approximately $100 million in capturing margin improvements against our target of $130 million to $170 million for the full year.
This year we moved 1.6 million barrels of Bakken crude oil to Alaska in the second quarter.
Bakken crude oil represented over 65% of the oil consumed by our mid-continent system.
We also delivered $155 million of logistics growth through the first half of the year putting us on track to deliver the $325 million to $375 million of logistics improvements for the full year.
As for an update on individual projects the Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC has indicated that the draft environmental impact statement for Vancouver Energy has been pushed back four months to the end of November.
We remain committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil to rail marine terminal.
We believe a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers several benefits to the state and the region including: reducing America's dependence on foreign oil this project is designed to replace foreign imports with North American grades; generate $2 billion in economic value to the local and regional economy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We believe that crude by rail will continue to play a vital role in delivering advantaged inland domestic crude to the West Coast.
Tesoro has made significant investments in infrastructure and enhanced rail cars to support this method of delivery in a safe and responsible way.
We continued to upgrade our crude oil rail fleet by adding 210 enhanced tank cars that exceed the new safety transport standards issued by the U.S.
Department of Transportation on May 1 of this year.
We have also completed the second phase of the Salt Lake City expansion project in the second quarter.
This expansion allows us to run additional waxy crude oil from the Uinta Basin increase our total capacity by about 4 000 barrels per day and run up to 26 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
The Salt Lake City refinery is currently processing about 22 000 barrels per day of waxy crude oil.
As for our cash flow priorities we will continue to one invest in growth opportunities to further value creation.
Two focus on external growth opportunities.
Three maintain a competitive dividend and payout ratio.
Four continue to strengthen the balance sheet and move towards investment grade.
And five return excess cash to shareholders as Steven mentioned earlier.
Let me conclude by saying that this quarter's record performance underscores our ability to efficiently optimize our assets across the value chain leverage favorable market conditions and deliver on our commitments.
With a competitive position on the West Coast and a strong focus on the growth of our Logistics and Marketing businesses we have built a solid foundation for continued value creation.
And with that we'll now take your questions.
Operator? The first question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
The second quarter earnings were all the more impressive given some of the downtime at Salt Lake and the ramp times at Anacortes and Martinez.
Do you have an estimate on the EBITDA or earnings opportunity loss due to these not running at full capacity for the duration of the quarter? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we don't have that available Jeff.
But for Salt Lake City I think you could go back and compare year-on-year 2014 to 2015 and look at the difference in the margin environment and that would give you a very good approximation because you can see the lower throughput as we typically run at 100% utilization.
Good.
If you look at the Tesoro Refining Index and a Retail Index they're higher for July than I think any of the months that occurred during the second quarter.
You mentioned better margin capture with the benefit of higher refining utilization declining oil prices and the impact on secondary products lower RINs prices.
It would appear that we're off to a materially better third quarter number than what Street estimates appear.
Any comments on that? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think as we look forward to the third quarter I'd probably point out two or three things.
First as Steven mentioned in his guidance we plan to run at between 95% and 100% utilization.
So if you just take the midpoint of his range of 97.5% and you look at what we ran in the second quarter because of what you mentioned regarding Salt Lake City and Anacortes coming out of turnarounds and that we were at 92%.
So that equates to about 50 000 barrels a day of additional production in Q3 versus Q2.
That's one thing.
Secondly because of coming out of that turnaround and running feedstocks and things like that that's now cleared out of our system.
And so where we had a capture rate of 89% in Q2 we expect it to be back more in the normal range for Q3.
And then finally we see the continuing market environment good demand in our marketing system.
Our demand is continuing to stay strong going into the third quarter.
We just don't see anything out there that's going to change that in the short term.
And therefore with continued strong performance in Marketing and Logistics I think when you put it all together we see a very favorable outlook for Q3 versus Q2.
Thanks for your comments Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Morning everyone.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Brad.
Greg obviously I'm sure you're aware of the Reuters report last week suggesting that Tesoro was looking at acquiring Holly [HollyFrontier].
Are there any comments you can make around that? And since the answer to that may be no can you just talk about your appetite for refining acquisitions and M&amp;A in general in the current environment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah as you're very much aware Brad it's not appropriate to comment on rumors or speculation so we'll avoid that completely.
But what I will reaffirm is our strategic focus which has been the same for five years since I've been at Tesoro.
We have five strategic priorities and one of those priorities is value-driven growth and we fully intend to look for opportunities where we can acquire assets that fit in our business model and create value from those assets.
And we've been doing that for the last couple years.
We will continue to look for those opportunities.
We believe we're good at capturing those opportunities and integrating them.
As we stated we've fully integrated QEPM in less than six months into our business.
We'll capture all of the synergies from that business and it's operating extremely well.
And I think the asset acquisition in Southern California speaks for itself.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then I was curious if you could provide more color on the movement of the wholesale business into the new Marketing segment.
Is the desire there to collect that EBITDA together maybe supporting the plan that you're going to roll out for the Retail business in the fall? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me ask Steven to address your question Brad.
Yeah as we moved to the MSO model on our Retail business we created this Marketing segment so you can see all of our customer-facing business in one place.
So that's the reporting change.
But as Greg mentioned earlier the real focus is on creating value through our strategy being integrated.
You look at the performance of that business over the last couple years it's improved dramatically.
In fact if you look at the last 12 months it's generated over $800 million of EBITDA on its own.
And as we look forward we're going to lay out our strategy at the end of the year as Greg's mentioned to create further value in the Marketing segment.
Okay.
Great.
And then if I could just sneak in one more.
I'm curious on those business improvement goals obviously good progress versus the targets there.
Is there a benefit in those numbers from the record cracks on the West Coast? Or are they based on more of a normalized crack environment? Thanks.
There is no benefit at all from the margin environment.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys and strong results.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Evan.
Just a question on the buyback I mean clearly a big quarter here and I think you alluded to what's shaping up to be another one behind it.
But how should we think about a target ratio payout here? I know you've been very active I think it was 50% of your net income in the quarter.
Is that how you think about it? Or is it more flexible than that? Yeah.
I don't think we're as rigid as to saying that there's a payout target we want to have.
We want to continue to improve our total shareholder return.
But when we think about our overall capital allocation priorities we're really committed and focused on driving more free cash flow growth.
So having high returns on our cash investments so being very disciplined there.
Then second behind that we say we want to have about $600 million to $800 million of cash on our balance sheet.
And if you look at where we are at the end of the second quarter and you're comments on the third quarter about the business improving we've actually got flexibility there because we've got more cash at that point than the $600 million $800 million.
Beyond those core elements our first priority is really to continue to fund these high growth investments the business improvement projects high growth capital and also M&amp;A.
Beyond that we continue to grow our dividend.
We announced an 18% increase which follows a 42% increase in the first quarter.
And then we look to share repurchases and this year we bought back $270 million and we're going to continue to buy back shares from the excess cash.
And then finally I'd say we do want to continue to move towards investment grade.
So putting some cash towards modest deleveraging over time makes sense as well.
So that's kind of how we view it across the spectrum.
Great.
And if I could a second.
Greg maybe I know you addressed in your opening comments some of the trend and they extended into the third quarter but maybe just if I could get your longer-term view of how industry fundamentals are shaping up? Clearly there's even more recently there's been a broader acceptance a realization of a lower for longer or some level of lower for longer on the oil side as well as a resiliency of U.S.
production and the producer.
And I guess in that in a macro perspective we're seeing refining start-ups internationally get kicked further to the right and particularly in China.
How do you feel about being in the industry for a long period of time how do feel about the refining fundamentals as we extend through 2016 timeframe a little bit maybe longer-term view? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it's a good question Evan.
The shorter-term view going out for the next 12 months to 24 months we believe the fundamentals are continuing to be very supportive particularly if as you mentioned with the – if crude oil stays in the lower price range that we've experienced we would see supportive demand especially in the United States.
May not see the same level of growth but that's probably not necessarily a bad thing if we can maintain the demand where it's been.
And with some minor growth we would see that to lend itself to be very supportive for the industry.
And probably more importantly for our business if you take PADD 5 and you just look at we've had continued growth out of the recession of the California economy in particular has improved growth in demand in that.
So the market is in a very favorable position and with our focus on being able to go out and drive the improvements and capture the synergies on the West Coast we believe that we're very well positioned to operate extremely well and deliver the products in that favorable market environment.
And does the distillate gasoline relationship concern you and then the relatively diverging fundamentals and how they relate going forward? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not from our standpoint because the things that we've been doing have allowed us to keep that flexibility to produce what the market needs whether it be gasoline or distillate which will be driven as you know by the the market will tell you what to produce.
So from our flexibility that we're creating in our system we're not impacted by it at all because we haven't spent a lot of money to create that flexibility.
I appreciate the comments guys.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Evan.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Phil.
A couple of follow-up questions.
First just on the last topic I guess I'm wondering if we think about the West Coast specifically there's the demand factors you mentioned there there are supply factors as well.
If for example Torrance were to restart tomorrow would your view of the Tesoro Index – would it be higher than it was at the December Analyst Day at this stage? For the next year or two? I think you had a $10 to $12 index and it feels like there's a lot of demand behind this as well.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me just clarify one thing Phil.
The index of $10 to $12 first was for our entire system not just California so just to be clear about that.
Yeah.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I think today looking forward versus last year where we were actually with a fair amount of uncertainty because of the environment we were in with falling prices and that and there's probably a little bit to follow-up on Evan's question and points that he tried to make.
It appears that the fundamentals are even more supportive.
So I think when you see us come out with our estimate for next year it will probably be higher from an index standpoint as we look forward from the markets.
So yeah we see that in a very positive way.
Got it.
Okay.
And just on the capture rate discussion.
Do you happen to have what the June capture rates were? Or some way of calibrating a little bit more finely how you would think about capture versus the 89% given more of a full run rate.
And if I drill into that a little bit more obviously the mid-con you highlighted some of the challenges there in the second quarter.
But are there any factors going on in the mid-con that are more structural? I'm thinking up in the Mandan area with maybe slower diesel demand that would lead to slightly lower capture there maybe versus 2014? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So it'd be probably June.
I don't have that number off the top of my head but I would say that June is probably a good indication for Q3 from a capture standpoint.
And if you go back and look historically at what our capture's been that will get you in the ballpark of what it is.
However you do have to recognize that capture will be down slightly because of the change in taking some of the Marketing business and moving it into Refining.
And then the change we talked about earlier in the year on how we account for the RIN value.
Now the RINs have come down a lot since we talked about that earlier in the year.
But those two changes could probably take our capture down slightly in the mid-single digit percentage value.
So I guess as kind of an approximate value target around 5% as a lower level.
So I think that would give you a good idea of what capture would look like going forward.
Okay.
Then just anything on the mid-con specific? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably the biggest thing in the mid-con is just the weaker Bakken differential.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Great thanks and congrats.
It is clear Q3 is going to be somewhat even stronger.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ed.
Just a hypothetical if you owned any SP at one of your refineries and you blew it up and had to get a secondary one in and you needed to get a waiver what odds – you know the regulatory regime better than us – what odds would you put on getting that waiver? I mean we're all trying to work it out.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's an absolutely unfair question Ed.
Okay.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean I'd just be you know honestly I'd just be speculating on that.
I don't think I can give you any better indication than anyone else on that.
Right.
Okay.
Maybe then I'll move into a different area.
I mean obviously you've been quite aggressive on the MLP consolidation front.
I mean I'm sure you've observed that the MLP valuations are further coming in.
Is the organization because you're still I guess digesting QEPM or doing very well with that.
Is the organization stretched to this point to do – to participate further in consolidation or is that still one of the levers that you think you could pull? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Actually we feel very good about QEPM.
We did an excellent job of integrating it into our business the people that joined Tesoro from QEPM are an excellent addition to our organization their commitment and their strong technical and operating background fit exactly what we needed for our logistics business.
So we feel very very good about that.
And in less than six months it's fully integrated into our business and running along and it's been fantastic from that standpoint.
So we're well-positioned for other opportunities.
We mentioned briefly that we see significant organic growth opportunities even though it is a difficult environment with pricing prices for both gas and oil.
We continue to see good organic growth projects and working with customers across the areas where we do the business is still bearing a lot of fruit for us.
So we're very optimistic from that standpoint.
We continue to look for opportunities to acquire assets that fit in that are good quality assets that fit our business model and we'll just see what happens as that goes forward.
Yeah.
And then maybe if I could come back to the West Coast just finally.
Torrance I mean obviously at the margin – there's some gasoline that's not coming in it was a big unit so that does tip it.
But if Torrance was fully running do you still think that we'd be seeing stress in California because of the demand fundamentals that we're witnessing? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think you have to as you know you have to go back in and look at the amount of gasoline that's been imported into PADD 5 during the time that they've had operating problems at that refinery and see what the net effect is that would give you an idea of what would happen because there's been a fair amount of imports into the area.
So it's probably had some impact in the marketplace but I think the market is being fully supplied with all of the product that it needs.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Congrats on a great quarter Greg.
I wanted to pick your brain a little bit on your teaser on the Retail business.
And obviously I knew you were going to give us details later in the year but I guess just as a big picture standpoint it's being a strategic outlet for gasoline for you guys for quite a while.
Obviously it's grown in stature.
You've stepped that up over time.
Is it something you see as strategic that you need to retain ownership of? Or is it the kind of thing you believe could stand on its own two feet like say as a standalone Retail business or IPO spun out to investors for example? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think the first point that's more important than your question I think is that we believe it's critical that we maintain that high integration in our Refining and Marketing business.
It's a fundamental part of our business model.
So first that's extremely important.
The second part of your question is something that we need to look at and say how do you get the optimal contribution from that business with the amount of money that you deploy in that business as well as how you can capture returns on that? And that is something we fully intend to answer here and we'll share with everyone before the end of the year.
Just a quick follow-up.
Is it reasonable to assume that you could spin it out while still retaining the distribution rights if you like to the what I guess is predominantly a jobber market? Is that a fair assumption? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Doug I think just give us time to complete our work on it and we'll look at – as you know you know how we do things.
We're going to look at every possible idea and we're going to be focused on how do we create the maximum value for the owners of the company? And then we'll – but we'll take what you just said and look at that with every other option that we can think of.
Got it.
Thank you.
My follow-up is really more about the structure of the gasoline market in California.
I guess given the strength that we've seen in margins obviously Torrance has been offline and so on why do you think we haven't seen a bigger step-up in imports into the region to calm things down if you like? Are there some structural barriers whether it be port facilities or things of that nature which I recall are predominantly owned by the local refineries or is there some other issue going on aside from the obvious strength in demand? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> First I think you need to look at the entire PADD because as you know products gasoline diesel jet fuel moves freely along the whole West Coast to the different markets and that.
So that's one thing.
Secondly if you look at gasoline production it has been very strong in PADD 5 during this period of time.
It's been extremely strong because the market needs the gasoline.
And to the best of my knowledge everyone has met the demand for gasoline on the West Coast.
We have not had any issues of supplying any of our customers at all and even earlier in the year when we had our operating challenges at the Martinez refinery we still met all of our customer demand.
So I'm not aware of any shortages of not meeting the customer demand in that.
And I think the question on imports is a little bit to do with the market structure and pricing and when you're in a backwardated market like that it may present some challenges to get the gasoline into the market.
But the market's been absorbing imports without any problem.
All right.
Appreciate the answers.
Thanks Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Neil.
So Greg I wanted to start off on the MLP here and you'll be generating a lot of general partner cash flow that's going to start ticking up here and just your thoughts on whether it makes sense to monetize some of that GP.
And then also as a follow-up just your thoughts on the pacing of dropdowns into TLLP as you think about your backlog.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I'm going to ask Steven to comment a little bit on the GP monetization then I'll respond to your second question Neil.
Yeah very similar to Greg's comments about how we create value on the Marketing side we view the TLLP business the same way.
We're really focused on growing the business organically and through dropdowns.
To your point where we are in terms of the growth we see substantial cash flow growth already coming from the business and we expect it to continue.
Beyond that whether there's opportunities to create value through other means we hope that the most value comes to our shareholders by just operating the business extremely well and growing it.
But over time if we feel that doesn't yield value we'll look at all the options that are out there on the financial side.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the second one Neil regarding the dropdowns as you are very much aware that we announced in the second half of the year here we intend to do a dropdown and we talked about the scale of that dropdown and how the frequency of those dropdowns is for us predicated a little bit upon just the time that it takes to do all the work to get the dropdowns ready to happen in conjunction with everything else we have going on in the Logistics business with our execution of our organic growth projects and we're doing extensive business development with our customers to meet their needs out in the marketplace.
So that is one of the things that controls our dropdown schedule which is kind of gets us on one dropdown a year.
We've said that.
However this time we've done additional work to accelerate dropdowns that could happen in 2016 because we've just been it just takes a lot of work to get those ready.
As so there is a chance we could do a little bit more dropdowns in 2016 than we have in the past.
All right.
Great.
And then my follow-up on the M&amp;A point just philosophically Greg you talk about taking a value approach when you think about M&amp;A.
Are there regions of greater interest whether it's the mid-con versus the Gulf Coast versus elsewhere? Obviously there are market power constraints in PADD 5.
And then just if you could talk and flesh through some of those parameters that you define as a value creative transaction I think that would be helpful for framing the topic for investors.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we have been very clear for the last five years that our area of focus is from the middle part of the country to the West Coast and pretty much staying out of the Gulf Coast.
And we believe that the best way that we create value is in our integrated business model between Refining Marketing and Logistics.
And as you're very much aware that doesn't necessarily apply on the Gulf Coast like it does in the geographic area that I defined.
So we've stayed true to that geographic area for the last five years and right now I don't see us changing from that.
That's our focus.
We think we understand the business and the opportunities in that area and we'll continue to focus on that area.
What we believe from a value way to create values if we were to find opportunities they would be where we can capture opportunities from deploying the way we operate on a business that we would an asset that we would acquire.
For example what we did at Carson we would intend to do the same thing.
We as the synergies that we've talked about and shared fairly transparently the types of synergies we would look for those opportunities that create value that are kind of embedded in the business which depend a lot upon how we operate which can include the commercial part of the business from a crude supply and product to the taking product out to the customers.
And then just as much as how we operate.
So we'd have to find that type of embedded value in there and we believe that there's significant opportunities to be able to do that.
And then the other thing would be just being able to build out our business model.
That we believe there is a part of our value creation model that we would look to achieve.
Helpful color as always.
Thanks guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Neil.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg on the M&amp;A if I could ask an additional question.
Is there one or two financial metrics that are the most important when you consider M&amp;A transactions? And if there are what are those and what is the minimum in those metrics that you would be looking for? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think Paul we I think if you look over time most refining transactions that have occurred come into a pretty close range on a DCF basis.
So when we acquired Carson you can go back and see the business on a discounted cash flow basis where that value is in there.
They stay in a relative a pretty tight range from the work that we've done on those.
So looking at opportunities we'd be looking at them from a discounted cash flow basis.
And then the second thing would be which I hopefully tried to answer Neil's question is there embedded value in the business by the way that you operate or in some cases extend what we would try to do with our business model.
And so we do a pure grind out the numbers and see what type of value creation we can get through synergies and that based upon how – what we pay for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> And in your discounted cash flow analysis what is the discount rate you guys are using? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think over time if you look over the last little bit from the work we've done most transactions traded around 15%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Greg several of your major projects including the mixed xylene project Carson and Wilmington that you're going to shut down the FCC and expand the hydrocracker as well as build a tunnel to connect the two refinery physically.
Do you already have all the required permits on the construction on those projects? Or are you still waiting for some? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So on every project that we would consider kind of a major strategic effort by the company including Vancouver Energy the mixed xylene project that you mentioned Paul the Los Angeles integration project every single project is in a different stage of the permitting process.
So we are moving all of those projects through the permitting process as we speak.
That is very critical from the implementation because you've seen some of the troubles that we've had with getting through the permitting process at Vancouver Energy.
We aren't seeing those same issues at the other projects but they are in the permitting process.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you share that when you think or that based on your – to get those two projects that the L.A.
Carson integration and also that the mixed xylene to be on stream in 2017 when you would need the permit to be acquired? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You need the permits early end of this year early next year to stay on our schedule.
And right now we're moving along that time line.
We don't see any issues at this stage but that's the critical milestone in the project.
Inc.</span></strong> And Greg since the (47:27) publicly (47:28) on the QEPM is there any plan to merge it into TLLP so that you only have one logistic MLP? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We completed that merger Paul about the third week of July so QEPM is fully merged into TLLP.
It actually went very very smoothly and that's all behind us.
It's done.
Inc.</span></strong> Excellent.
A final one.
Do you have a preliminary CapEx for 2016? And also that how's your spring 2016 turnaround schedule may look like? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think right now I don't have off the top of my head what we said at our analyst meeting in December of 2014 with regards to 2016 but that's probably a good ballpark number right now.
I just don't remember what that is.
We're working our turnarounds.
Right now we're in our planning process for 2016 going forward.
So it's just too early to get an idea of what our turnaround schedule is.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg can you at least tell us whether you think it's going to be about normal or if it's going to be heavier or lighter than normal? Or even that is too early to tell? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think a good indication would be kind of average Paul.
I don't think from my recollection we have done some work to do some work on the turnarounds and that and I think that when we get into 2016 you'll see it comparable to 2015 would be my guess.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yep.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Sam.
I just wanted to revisit this gasoline import topic quickly.
If you could educate us just a little bit on some of the dynamic at work here if – when these barrels land at port if they're ready for market immediately or if they potentially require further processing within the California system so that there's in fact another constraint beyond just ship and port capacity as international refiners try to close that ARP? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You can import California gasoline and take it directly to the market it does not require further processing.
However people can import feedstocks to blend in to create additional gasoline and that – both of those may happen but your first question is you can take it directly to the market.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And then on just also revisiting the MLP valuation theme because I think this week it's really come to the forefront for a lot of people.
On consolidation it seems like one of the constraints in the past has just been the spread between third-party M&amp;A transactions and the dropdown valuation so that the limited partners really had to fund a lot of the upfront consolidation costs.
But now as that gap closes how do you think about the Tesoro parent company balance sheet and the role it might play in potential pure midstream acquisition opportunities outside a comparable transaction to say Southern California two years ago but just TSO parent in its current position with respect to third-party midstream assets and in consideration of how it affects the GP too if that has a TSO parent? Yeah I think your first question for our call was really around the fundamental valuations.
When you think about them from a third-party versus dropdown at the end of the day they're really all third-party transactions.
If you take for example our QEPM acquisition in the first year based upon the earnings run rate we've been able to achieve in the business it's already down to about a 10 to 10.5 multiple and historically that had been the level at which we had dropdown assets too and so from our point of view they're both very very attractive to LP unit holders as well as GP.
So that's kind of the first perspective.
To your second question how we think about dropping down assets Greg described the pace at which we've talked about it.
It really is around – we'll drop down assets to continue to support the growth but it's really about creating additional value being able to run those assets.
There's times where we could bring third parties into those assets as well.
And so when we look at the type of assets we bring down you can expect them to be very consistent with the type of assets we've dropped before and each year you have to look at the dynamics around valuation and so you know we still think that you can drop down these type of midstream assets at valuations that make sense today and they're still accretive and valuable to LP unit holders and they still make sense for refining so we haven't seen the shift off of that.
Okay.
And just out there in the M&amp;A market are we seeing assets close the gap to the dropdown valuation so that you can warehouse them in the parent company for a certain amount of time? As you drop them down gradually should you see assets that look attractive to you outside the current Tesoro footprint if that makes sense? Yeah I think ultimately you want to use Refining capital to grow Refining and to the extent you can find other sources of capital to grow the Non-Refining and Marketing businesses you'd look at that.
But yeah I think valuations – to your point over the last few years they haven't really been supportive of that because there's been – there's really a strong bid-ask spread on those deals but I do think that that's an option we'll always look at is being able to warehouse it and drop it down you know particularly when it's integrated with Refining assets like our Southern California acquisition.
That made a lot of sense created a lot of value.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Chi Chow Tudor Pickering.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Can you hear me okay Greg? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah a little bit of a buzz on your phone but yeah you're good.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay yeah I think I'm having problems here.
I guess on the midstream drop you mentioned to TLLP you've mentioned the assets are in Los Angeles.
I was under the impression that TLLP already held all the L.A.
assets.
Are these still related to Carson or do have something else in that region? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No it's part of the – both of Wilmington.
We have more assets both around Wilmington and Carson that are distribution assets that fit into the system.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Is there more beyond what you've identified in the release today? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yes there is.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And do you have any sort of EBITDA estimate on what's still yet to come? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Chi not on those yet but there are others there so I don't know what it is exactly.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
At Salt Lake City regarding your expansion project there can you continue to process the 22-a-day of waxy crudes longer term? Or are you going to have to cut back on those volumes from your supplier once your competitor in that region starts up their expansion next year? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey I think I'm not sure the competitor has much to do with the supply of waxy crude as it does what's going out in the Uinta Basin.
And there's no question that the drilling activity has dried up out in the Uinta Basin and that's going to have an impact on future availability of waxy crude oil.
So there was a fair amount of waxy crude oil being produced and used in a number of the Salt Lake City refineries and taken out of the region.
And so we're working through that right now to get an indication of the availability of waxy crude oil going out looking further to see what's going to be available.
But we have flexibility to use other types of crudes and all that.
It's just how the waxy crude oil prices into the system.
It's just a little bit too early to see how that's going to shake out for 2016 and beyond.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Do the economics on the project change much if you use non-waxy crudes through the expansion? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our project Chi was built to run waxy crude oil.
That was the rationale for spending the amount of money that we did was to be able to process waxy crude oil.
As you can recall I think at about the time we were working on this if my memory serves me right we were around 10 000 barrels to 11 000 barrels a day and we basically said we were going to double that up to the 22 000 barrels.
It looks like we're at about 24 000 barrels to 26 000 barrels a day.
And so there is no question that if two things happen – one if less waxy crude is available and two if the differentials come in in the short term that economics that originally were behind that project are not as attractive as they were when we spent the money.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then final question on Vancouver.
Do you read into anything on the State's sentiment on the project by pushing their process back even further? Or is this just typical regulatory inefficiencies? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
From our view is it's the way that the many different groups within the States that are involved in the EFSEC process are doing the work and it just doesn't work as you would both hope for it and like it to work.
If it was in a business you would probably get a different outcome versus going through the regulatory process.
But we do not read anything into it regarding their support or lack of support for it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks Greg.
I appreciate it.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Paul Sankey Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hi Greg.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Gosh man.
It feels like it should be Friday for sure.
Greg I assume you're having an analyst meeting in December right? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That is correct.
If we look back to last December I know the world was kind of already changing at that time but it still feels – if I listen and I have to obviously check through the transcript but it still feels that essentially what you're doing here is either reiterating or possibly raising kind of everything that you laid out at that meeting? I just wanted – I know you'll know the answer right off the top of your head.
Is that broadly speaking true? Is there any elements of what you said in December that are drifting? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I think your recollection is right on.
We kind of today said that we're going to go on the high end of the range of for example on the three areas that we targeted to create value.
Last year we gave a range as we were developing our plans and today we feel confident that we will be on the high end of that range.
And so very very encouraging.
And furthermore what we're looking at into 2016 because we also gave a preliminary indication of value that we felt like we could contribute in 2016.
And we've already captured some opportunities that will start to bear fruit in 2016.
So I'm actually quite encouraged about the outlook for 2016 from a overall what we do at Tesoro to create value versus all of the discussions we've been having about the market.
Yeah and I know you well enough to know that if there was anything that was kind of going awry as regards to what you'd laid out you'd just tell us.
And so essentially what you're doing is you're – everything is towards the upper end of the range that you had laid out at that time? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the only thing that doesn't look as attractive as what we thought last year was response to the last question that Chi asked around Salt Lake City.
And part of our you know we spent a lot of money.
We spent a little bit less than $400 million to create the value at Salt Lake primarily driven by processing waxy crude oil and in the short-term that doesn't look as attractive.
But everything else I think we feel very comfortable with.
Yeah.
And I guess what I'm driving at ultimately is that there's obviously been remarkable changes in the market.
A couple of things are obvious and one of them obviously benefits you which is the demand side has been strong.
But the differentials have collapsed.
The NGL story is horrendous and the MLP issue has been raised but you're still able to actually just sort of sail on with a raised outlook.
What have been the big – I mentioned demand obviously being a positive but it just strikes me that it's kind of remarkable that you're able to do this given the scale of the changes.
An obvious one is the Bakken differential being so much narrower.
Could you just observe where the challenges lie if you like if there are indeed any? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think on a broad scale from a logistics standpoint there's no question that outside the fringe areas of the Bakken that you're seeing a lot less activity.
We're fortunate that we're right in the heart of the Bakken and the types of customers we have to be able to both buy crude oil from as well as work with them to help lower their costs to get their crude oil to market through our logistics activities has been very very encouraging.
And maybe the number of opportunities may not be as great as it would have been in kind of the bull market that we were in for a while but it's very encouraging that we see a lot of really good organic growth opportunities.
So from a logistics standpoint our organic growth portfolio continues to look very good and we're – we have a number of opportunities both in North Dakota and out in the Rockies that we're working.
And so we're very very encouraged from that standpoint.
I think from a crude supply standpoint from a cost standpoint specifically around Bakken crude oil we've always felt that the market would become very efficient and clear to the areas based upon the transportation costs to get there.
And it's in some cases it's taken time but as we look around what's going to happen in North Dakota and how prices will set the differentials for Bakken crude oil as that crude clears to the market we're very confident that we can still take Bakken crude oil and source it into our system exactly like we planned on it over the last few years as a – because we believe that the cost to move that crude oil are going to reflect that what the markets tell them they need to be to be able to compete in the marketplace.
And so that's kind of how we see it Paul.
Yeah.
It makes perfect sense.
One delicate one just to roll – to finish it up.
The Vancouver delay you mentioned is there any end in sight to that? And I guess what you're telling me in the previous answer is that the Vancouver economics still do make sense regardless of the – I mean right now it looks like the dips are within train economics basically.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think our view is is that the economics – we looked as you would expect we evaluate that all the time and we take a view on where the dips are where there are opportunities to reduce the cost set.
So we're very confident that the movement of Bakken crude oil to the West Coast will continue to make sense over time.
And so we don't see any change there and our commitment to Vancouver Energy hasn't wavered from the very first day.
It's just a very slow time-consuming process that unfortunately most of it is outside of our control.
Yeah.
Just to finish.
Is there a deadline on the fact that it's been delayed? Or is that just a – I don't know what kind of delaying tactic – is there any kind of...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I wish there was.
Yeah okay.
Thanks Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning.
It's Faisel from Citi.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning Greg.
Just going back to Steve's comments around getting towards investment grade can that be accomplished just through deleveraging? Or does the asset base have to be more diversified in order to get there? I thought that one of the hiccups or the issues that the rating agencies had was the concentration on the West Coast but maybe I'm wrong.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Steven will address it.
Yeah.
If you do read those credit reports they do focus on concentration on the West Coast although I think we've demonstrated both through what we've done with transforming the business through the Southern California acquisition the way we've run the integrated business model and the improvements we've made in the logistics business that being concentrated on the West Coast is a good thing.
And we believe the rating agencies are paying attention to the improvement in performance and how we manage capital there and we're able to continue to grow profitability and cash.
So we feel very very good about the business profile and in terms of the balance sheet our credit metrics and all that because of the business growth have moved very very close to investment grade.
So in terms of the debt side of the balance sheet we think there's only a need for very modest type deleveraging a few hundred million type of thing.
It's not a billion dollars.
And so we think that we can both grow into it through our earnings growth and over time some modest debt repayment will get us there.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got you.
And on the Marketing side the restatement here I just want to make sure I understand this.
So the wholesale business it's the entire spot-to-rack business that's been restated out of Refining and put into Retail.
Is that what I'm seeing here on the restatement? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
That's a little bit too broad of a definition because in there we do like a lot of unbranded just taking product to the over the racks when we have excess product.
That is not included in there.
It is business that's committed to customers is what the wholesale business is.
So where we have contracts with specific customers that's what the wholesale part of the business is in addition to our Retail business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
So it's only rack-to-retail then? There's no – the spot-to-rack is still sort of within the Refining segment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So well let me just clarify that Faisel.
So initially it was our Retail marketing business where we had our brand that was given – that customers used a brand that either Tesoro owns or we have the rights to offer to customers.
That was our Retail business.
So the ARCO business the Tesoro business the U.S.A.
some Shell some Exxon and some Mobil.
That was the legacy Retail segment that reported externally.
Today in addition to that we have customers that do not use our brand but that have contracts to buy business from us on sometimes long-term contracts and sometimes a little bit shorter term but it's that business that's in there.
Where we just go to the market and sell unbranded product over the rack it does not include that business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay got it.
And is there any breakdown in the quarter how much was the difference between the way you guys used to report before versus the way you guys report today in terms of the wholesale versus the retail? Yeah we put it in our supplemental financial information and what we've done there is we've actually gone back and backcasted back to 2013 by quarter the way the segments would have looked and so you can compare that to what you've seen previously and give you a delta.
In 2013 2014 it was in the neighborhood of about $100 million a year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay that makes sense.
Thank you.
The next on the dropdown you guys are talking about in TLLP.
Given that the GP cash flow is a larger cut of the cash flow stream how do you guys think about the pricing? In the past we've seen you drop down the assets at a certain multiple but now that the GP cash flow is higher I guess we would normally think that the multiple would have to be lower in order to accommodate for that cash flow stream? I just want to understand philosophically how you're thinking about it.
Yeah I think that the first and foremost is to make sure that the overall deal economics create a lot of value for LP unit holders and the GP unit holder and so it comes down to the quality of the assets and the sustainability of the earnings that are in there and the required capital to maintain them so I think that drives 85% of it is good quality assets being dropped down.
But we do look at because of the way the GP and LP structures work to make sure that both LP unit holders and GP unit holders both value greatly from these transactions.
So we'll look at all mechanisms to do that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay last question from me.
It sounded like on the call you guys were talking about there was some headwinds during the quarter to the capture rate but it sounds like all those issues have been resolved.
Is it fair to say that as we sit here in the third quarter that the ability for you to capture more of the margin is better today than it was in the second quarter? That's correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate the time.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Faisel.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Greg.
Just a quick follow-up on the Vancouver.
Is there a point if they continue to delay and push it forward that you would say okay that we've been waiting long enough that we're going to look for an alternative option instead of say going EFSEC? Is there a red line inside the company that you guys are contemplating or that you would be looking at concurrently? And if there's an alternative option then what that option may look like.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I was going to say something about red lines but I'd better not.
So right now Paul I mean we're absolutely committed to Vancouver Energy and we're very confident that – the EFSEC process looks at the actual permitting process in that the overall impact of what this does to the community to the state to the supply of this type of crude oil to the West Coast to the improvements in lowering carbon intensity of crude oil that's produced in the United States made into products and sold on the West Coast that are all positive.
We just believe when all of that's taken into consideration that there'll be support that there'll be very strong support for the project.
So we don't see anything at this stage that would ever tell us not to keep pursuing the project.
Unless we learn something down the road that we don't know today there's nothing that tells us we won't continue to pursue this.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
A final question.
Do you have a number you can share inside your network what is the same-store sales in the third quarter so far and the year-over-year growth? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We talked about during the discussion earlier that our Marketing growth year-on-year was up around 3% during Q2 versus last year and we said that it's continuing at that pace so far whatever we are five weeks into the third quarter we are experiencing that same pace of growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Thank you everyone.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Faisel Khan Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sorry guys.
Just one last question.
Just want to know in the segment data that the POP exposure and keep-hold exposure that used to be at the midstream business at QEP where does that sit now? Does that sit within Refining or Marketing or is it within the Corporate segment? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No the agreement between Tesoro and Tesoro Logistics to take the commodity exposure off of the NGLs is done in our Refining segment.
And as we said it's immaterial to the company.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Gotcha.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate that.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Faisel.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you everyone.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions.
So thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.