Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Towanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Sam Ramraj Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss third quarter 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
The earnings release which includes financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings release which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and our future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from our expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our third quarter financial performance and then turn the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported record quarterly results.
We believe this performance demonstrates our continued focus on executing our business improvement plans running our refineries efficiently and at high rates and creating shareholder value by productively allocating cash.
Third quarter net earnings from continuing operations were $759 million or $6.13 per diluted share compared to $397 million or $3.06 per diluted share last year.
Reported results in the third quarter include an inventory charge due to a lower cost or market valuation adjustment of $83 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
This is a result of the decline in crude oil and product prices relative to our LIFO carrying value.
Excluding this impact and the exclusion of a gain related to an insurance settlement of $0.06 per share adjusted net earnings for the quarter were $802 million or $6.48 a share.
We delivered record adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of approximately $1.6 billion.
This represents an increase of 84% from $858 million last year.
This was primarily due to successful execution of our business improvement plans strong marketing sales and high utilization at our refineries.
Refining segment's adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2015 was approximately $1.1 billion an increase of 70% from $657 million a year ago.
Our total refinery throughput for the quarter was 861 000 barrels a day or 101% utilization.
During the quarter we successfully completed a turnaround at our Los Angeles refinery.
Our ongoing business improvement efforts at this refinery allowed us to utilize new pipeline connections and we're able to share intermediate feedstock between different portions of the refinery and run at higher utilization.
The Tesoro Index was $23.09 per barrel in the third quarter with the realized gross refining margin of $20.49 per barrel or 89% of the Tesoro Index.
This compares to a realized gross refining margin of $14.92 a barrel or 121% of the Tesoro Index from last year.
This quarter's capture rate was impacted by the combination of weaker crude oil differentials and maintenance activity at our Los Angeles refinery.
Manufacturing costs in the third quarter decreased $0.58 per barrel over the same period last year to $4.84 per barrel.
This decrease was primarily due to continued lower energy prices and high refinery utilization.
The logistics segment's adjusted EBITDA was $158 million in the third quarter compared to $80 million a year ago.
The substantial year-over-year increase was driven by contribution from the Rockies Natural Gas Business which delivered $213 million of EBITDA year-to-date and increased volumes in our crude oil gathering business.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were $38 million during the third quarter and $106 million year-to-date.
This is an increase of $51 million or 93% versus last year further highlighting the substantial value creation for Tesoro shareholders as a result of our execution of the logistics growth plan.
The marketing segment's EBITDA was a record $390 million more than double the $190 million seen in the third quarter of last year.
This is primarily due to higher fuel volumes reflecting strong growth in consumer demand.
Same-store fuel sales during the quarter were up 2.1% relative to last year.
As a result of driving strong operating performance through our business improvement plan and the favorable market impacts seen this year Tesoro generated $1.2 billion of free cash flow in the first nine months of this year after payment of $169 million of dividends on Tesoro shares and $135 million on TLLP public distributions.
Year-to-date we've deployed this capital as follows.
We invested $440 million in high return capital projects in Tesoro and TLLP.
We repurchased approximately 5.5 million shares for $494 million at an average price of about $90 a share and we repaid $398 million of secured debt.
We remain committed to continuing to allocate capital to create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
We do this by focusing first on investing in our business improvements and high return capital projects.
We also want to continue to grow our dividend and remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
In addition we're continuing our efforts to drive Tesoro and TLLP towards investment-grade credit ratings.
We paid down $398 million of secured debt at Tesoro and currently have no outstanding secured borrowings.
On September 30t S&amp;P reaffirmed the credit ratings on both Tesoro and Tesoro Logistics while placing both entities on a positive outlook.
Given the transformative substantial improvements we have made in our base business coupled with portfolio enhancements we believe that we're well-positioned to achieve our long-term goal in investment-grade credit rating.
This is important to both companies as it lowers the cost of borrowings allows for longer term borrowings and creates greater financial flexibility.
Looking ahead you can find details of our planned throughput manufacturing cost per barrel and other elements related to our fourth quarter outlook in our earnings release issued yesterday.
We are confident in our ability to drive earnings growth for 2015 and beyond as we focus on capturing value across our integrated business model and executing on our business improvement programs which we believe will create substantial shareholder value.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
We had a record quarter of EBITDA and earnings per share.
We attribute this to three things.
One strong operational execution.
We achieved 101% refinery utilization rate.
Two record marketing volume supported by higher consumer demand.
And three capturing value through our business improvement programs.
Also we returned $287 million to shareholders and paid down $399 million of debt as Steven just stated.
Year-to-date we returned a total of $663 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
Now turning to our operations.
Our refining business delivered record results driven by high reliability high utilization and lower operating costs.
The Tesoro Index in the third quarter averaged over $23 per barrel which is one of the highest levels we have seen for a quarter.
The summer peak driving season led to an increase in U.S.
gasoline demand.
In fact U.S.
vehicle miles traveled in July increased 4.2% year-over-year to $284 billion which is a record.
In California the economy remains strong and continues to improve.
Year-to-date vehicle miles traveled grew 2.9% over last year.
This was aided by an expanding employment.
In the West Coast we maintained a competitive position by optimize our operations to maximize gasoline production and running full crude rates at our Los Angeles refinery despite a planned turnaround.
Utilization in our California region was in excess of 100%.
In the Pacific Northwest we optimized our crude slate to run higher levels of advantaged crude oil and substituted Canadian crude oil for waterborne feedstocks.
In the Mid-Continent crack spreads remained strong.
Our Salt Lake City refinery had a record throughput in the quarter.
We ran 64 000 barrels per day of crude oil including 20 000 barrels of waxy crude oil following the successful completion of the expansion project in the second quarter.
Moving to our logistics segment.
TLLP announced another strong quarter of growing volume across the business.
Both our crude oil and natural gas gathering businesses continued to grow volumes in the face of a challenging commodity price environment.
Our crude oil gathering volumes in the quarter were up 47% year-over-year.
Natural gas gathering volumes increased approximately 10% during the first nine months of the year.
For the first nine months of 2015 the Rockies Natural Gas Business contributed $213 million of adjusted EBITDA and is on track to contribute approximately $275 million of EBITDA for the full year.
We are in the final stages of offering Tesoro Logistics the opportunity to acquire crude oil and refined product storage and pipeline assets in Los Angeles.
We expect these assets to deliver annual EBITDA to TLLP in the range of $50 million to $75 million.
TLLP expects to fund this transaction through an equal combination of debt and issuing units to Tesoro.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
TLLP expects to deliver $650 million to $670 million of EBITDA for full year 2015 and remains fully committed to the $1 billion EBITDA target established for 2017.
We are committed to growing a full-service logistics business for our focus on growing and optimizing our stable fee-based business expanding our backlog of high return organic growth projects and pursuing third-party transactions and providing future dropdown opportunities.
Shifting to our marketing segment.
EBITDA for the quarter was a record $390 million.
This was the result of volume growth supported by strong consumer demand and our marketing integration which was 94% by the end of the quarter.
We are successfully executing our business improvement plans with strong contributions from our value chain optimization strategy.
This translates into increased and sustainable EBITDA growth which is in excess of market gains.
Year-to-date our business improvements are $505 million.
We delivered approximately $130 million in West Coast improvements exceeding our goal of $95 million to $125 million for the full year.
For example we improved pipeline connections between the Los Angeles refinery sites; crude oil optimization from the integration of the Los Angeles refinery sites and new cargo sharing between our California refineries.
We captured margin improvements of approximately $120 million compared to our full year goal of $130 million to $170 million with contributions from the completion of the second phase expansion of the waxy crude oil project at our Salt Lake City refinery improved crude blending processes at our Mandan refinery and operating expense reductions.
We also delivered $255 million of logistics growth year-to-date against our target of $325 million to $375 million of logistics improvements for the full year.
We are on track to achieving our business improvement commitment of $670 million for this year.
To give you an update on our Vancouver Energy project we expect the Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC to release the Draft Environmental Impact Statement at the end of November.
We are committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail-to-marine terminal and remain very confident that a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers benefits to the state of Washington and the West Coast.
As we look forward we remain positive on our outlook.
The fourth quarter is typically a seasonally weaker demand period.
However crack spreads quarter-to-date have been higher than 2014 with PADD 5 gasoline demand up about 3% year-over-year benefiting from increase in vehicle miles traveled.
While the current pace of high demand growth for Clean Products would be hard to maintain we believe demand growth will be between 0.5% to 1% in 2016 which is still healthy and positive for our business.
We expect utilization in the fourth quarter to be between 92% and 97%.
This guidance includes planned maintenance in our California region.
We look forward to discussing our performance in 2015 and outlining our plans for 2016 at our Analyst and Investor Day event on December 9 in New York City.
For additional details on this event please follow up with our Investor Relations team.
So let me conclude by saying that we have built a strong integrated refining logistics and marketing business and have a very competitive position on the West Coast.
Independent of the favorable market conditions we continue to efficiently optimize our assets across the value chain deliver on our commitments and create shareholder value.
Now we'll take your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Neil Mehta with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Neil.
So it was an outstanding quarter here at the retail segment.
Just wanted to dive deeper there.
Is the strength in the quarter really a function of the demand you're seeing in California? And I know we'll get a little bit more clarity on this on December 9 but how are you thinking about different strategies to create incremental value out of your retail/wholesale business? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We'd continue to improve our marketing operations over time and are realizing the benefits in addition to a very favorable market environment that you just stated.
And our primary focus is to: one to continue to grow our marketing business and deliver higher integration than we've had in the past.
Two we want to strengthen our portfolio of marketing assets that we believe we can create better value with.
And then third we're going to strengthen our offering that we offer to customers and believe they will be able to deliver substantial value from that.
And as you said we will share our plans at the meeting we have in December.
Thanks Greg.
And the second question I recognize there are sensitivities around this.
But you publicly expressed an interest in becoming larger in the Mid-Continent as you think about diversifying the portfolio.
In a scenario where U.S.
production is lower especially in the Mid-Continent do you think these differentials will be sustainably tighter? And does that change the way you think about the potential value creation from getting larger in the Mid-Continent? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We continue to evaluate all the opportunities for the company.
As you would expect we look at all the drivers of how we create value and the market is one of those things that we take into consideration.
We don't see a material change that would alter our view on our desire to continue to grow the company in all aspects refining marketing and logistics and moving more east from our strong position on the West Coast.
Thanks Greg.
Congrats on the quarter.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Neil.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Dietert with Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Congratulations on the progress on moving towards investment grade.
I know you're not there yet but it's obviously that you are making good progress.
I was hoping to ask about the business improvements especially on the logistics operation.
I think that was a big increase the $255 million relative to second quarter I believe was 155 million.
Could you talk about the progress during the quarter and the outlook for hitting the target? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Jeff.
So our logistics as you're aware is really comprised of two things.
One is the growth as a result of the Natural Gas Business acquisition so the cumulative impact of continuing to deliver on the business in the Rockies primarily is like I said in my comments on target and will be on the high range of our expectations even in a pretty challenging commodity environment.
And then secondly continued growth really across the system through our efforts to better optimize the assets as well as organic growth projects coming on.
One of the key drivers for us is the ability to go out and identify good opportunities in the marketplace whether they be in the crude oil refined products or Natural Gas Business and organically grow that business.
So it's just a continuation of that.
Understand.
Secondly if I could the market conditions in California have been favorable this year.
But if you could talk a little bit about what you think normalized margins might look like given the changing economic and demand environment for West Coast margins or California refining margins.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
As we look at the West Coast and we just look at the overall market fundamentals supply demand utilization rates in the refineries across the system and over time maybe a slow start going back a number of years after the financial crisis but over time that has just continued to improve as primarily the California economy has gotten a lot stronger.
So the fundamental drivers of the business specifically in California but the West Coast in general as the way we look at it has continued to just be favorable to what drives our business.
And so our outlook over time is we will look at about a $1 to $2 improvement in our Index next year which is primarily driven by just the stronger fundamental analysis of the market.
And that's not versus 2015.
Jeff that's averages like a base of of 2014 for our Index and then we look at that off of 2014 because of the unusual circumstances in 2015.
Sure.
Thanks for your comments.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern with RBC.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Brad.
...following on on the previous question given the sort of apparent tightness in California gasoline regardless of whether Torrance comes back online in the near future or not has it given you any second thoughts about the potential FCC decommissioning in LA and/or the mixed xylenes project and whether you actually want to be subtracting incremental gasoline volumes out of the California market? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> First let me just clarify on the work we're doing in Los Angeles which we referred to as the integration and compliance project.
The purpose of the work there is one to integrate the two facilities as a result of physically connecting the two refineries.
We're able to create more flexibility in the yield structure of the refinery.
So we can actually make the same amount of gasoline but we have more flexibility to supply the market with either diesel fuel or jet fuel if that's what the demand in the market is.
So that we have considerable flexibility there and that's what that project is driven by.
The work on our mixed xylenes project which is progressing extremely well basically allows us to produce a higher value product.
So what we are doing is making a higher value product relative to gasoline blending components and then selling that into a market that's very very attractive.
So long answer to your question but the answer is no we are still very committed to both of those projects because of what they deliver to the market and for the company.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then...
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
...thinking about Tesoro being one of the larger runners of Bakken how do you think about Bakken volumes potentially declining? The impact on the system whether it still makes sense to be running Bakken and Anacortes given spread so tight with Brent how do you see that affecting the system going forward? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think in the short-term there have been factors that have caused the differentials to tighten up with some of the things going on in Canada which has definitely put pressure on the differentials versus how they have been historically.
However as we look out over time even in a lower price environment we still see economic value to be able to move Bakken to the West Coast and achieve the benefits that we have always stated which primarily are driven by the yield improvements in the refineries as long as you can competitively price the crude in there.
And as we've seen how that's traded and there is a lot of pressure on prices or cost to move the crude to the West Coast which will allow to maintain its competitiveness in our view.
Okay.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Greg.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Doug Greg clearly extraordinary cash flows in this environment.
Just wondering what your latest thoughts are in terms of use of I think what you've described to me before as a tremendous windfall.
I'm thinking about pension we don't see you talk too much about that.
And perhaps not to put you in the spot but perhaps even some more innovative issues such as upstream integration.
And I've got a follow-up please.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
First let me – I'm going to ask Steven to comment to you on how we use our free cash flow.
Good morning Doug.
So at a high level first our commitment to creating value through cash deployment hasn't changed.
We really start first by making sure that we've got funding for our business improvement our high return capital projects.
As we move beyond that we want to continue over time to grow the dividend and we want to be able to continue to return cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases as well.
When we look at the balance sheet really to your question about paying down debt or pension we like to have a approach to managing both.
In fact our pension plan we have been funding about $60 million a year every year above what's required to over time take that liability down and really kind of dollar cost average into it.
We find that to be a very effective approach so we'll continue to do that and continue to evaluate that.
And in terms of debt as we said in our remarks eliminating secured debt from the portfolio not only helps us with investment grade but having the leverage levels we do now we've got much more flexibility as we go forward to continue to invest in growth of the company whether that be kind of the business improvements we talk about or potential bolt-on acquisitions and those types of things.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would just add to Steven's comments Doug just to maybe elaborate on other things.
It's interesting in the environment that we find ourselves in now with.
From a price standpoint for crude oil and natural gas we are seeing lots of interesting opportunities across the whole value chain.
And we are actively looking at a number of things.
I would probably say that the ideas and the opportunities today are probably greater for us than they were – than when the prices were higher.
So it runs the whole gamut of all different possibilities and we're very actively looking at a number of things.
Okay.
I appreciate the answers.
I guess the follow-ups and it's probably something as – maybe it's a December issue but your latest given the strength of retail this quarter Greg that what are your latest thoughts in terms of whether you are getting recognition for the value of those assets and what you might do to get greater recognition let's say? And I will leave it there.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Our marketing business as I kind of stated a little bit earlier about kind of what we're looking out there we're very confident that we can continue to grow the contributions of marketing to our reintegrated value chain.
It's an integral part of that business and we really want to strengthen the portfolio of different types of outlets that we have through our customers.
And so we'll talk more fully about our plans and our ideas going forward because we see very significant potential there to grow that business.
Thanks Doug.
All right.
Appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
First question just on the operating expense reduction progress that you talked about.
You've saved a lot year-over-year on a dollar basis and a per barrel as well.
When you look ahead at the operating expense reduction potential is it more just to offset ongoing inflation or do you think that there is an ability to continue to cut? Obviously there has been some natural gas help this year as well.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we refer to it as improve rather than cut.
But we would say that we always target to offset the inflationary cost of doing business.
And our view is that in total the inflation in our business averages between 3% to 4% per year.
So we always try to offset that by creative ways to lower and improve our cost structure.
We also based upon benchmarking that believe that there are opportunities to drive other improvements in the business above and beyond the just the offsetting the inflationary costs and we are very focused on doing that.
And that will come over time over the next couple of years in that.
But we have made significant progress and having a very competitive cost position.
But there are additional opportunities.
Okay.
On the West Coast improvements being above the high end of the range for the year two quarters or three quarters would you call that a timing function or are there more opportunities that you see there to continue to drive improvement? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes continued delivery of our fundamental approach to drive improvements in the business there and we see additional opportunities which we will talk about in about 45 days or whenever it is in New York.
So it's actually quite encouraging our ability to go in and deliver those improvements and keep delivering more of those.
And if I can just sneak one last one on the capture rates.
They are pretty flattish sequentially 3Q versus 2Q you provided some helpful commentary last quarter.
Just curious if you have anything you would offer up about how to think about capture rates this quarter any moving pieces that you think would matter to us.
Yeah.
As we look at the fourth quarter based on the production plans we laid out and the costs in the current market environment we expect capture rates to be at or slightly above what we saw in the third quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin with Cowen &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Good morning everybody.
How are you? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Great Sam.
So there is a few dropdowns in the hopper it seems like.
And this next tranche of TLLP transfers seems like it's going to be a little more sponsor funded than they have in the past.
Can you talk about the thought process there? And specifically sort of what I'm getting at is is that evaluated as a use of capital for Tesoro or is that more of a response to market conditions? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll let Steven comment on that.
Yeah.
It's actually a combination of both.
I think on the one hand as you see the equity markets for the units in the MLP space it's a very very volatile market right now.
And so it's not a very attractive place right now to raise capital.
All that being said as Tesoro we believe it's a good investment for Tesoro shareholders to own and continue to own shares and maybe even increase ownership in TLLP over time.
But to balance that with as we drop these assets down generating cash for us to be able to bring back to Tesoro and deploy for high value.
And so our approach as Greg said in his prepared remarks of this being about 50%-50% new debt and 50% Tesoro taking equity we think accomplishes those objectives.
And then also we really want to see TLLP move to investment grade.
It's very important given how much growth there is there and how much you touch the debt markets to have the ability to take long duration borrowings to fund that growth.
And so by going 50%-50% or in that range plus or minus around there allows us to naturally delever TLLP as well.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
And secondly on M&amp;A just to pick your brain a little bit location is a huge part of evaluating potential candidates for acquisition obviously.
Where would – not just location in terms of crude access but also maybe in terms of market access where does kind of direct marketing capabilities or the opportunity for retail integration or already existing retail integration kind of rank on your evaluation process of looking at assets to potentially bring into the fold? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean fundamentally our business model is to be a highly integrated across the value chain.
We've been creating that.
We have more work to do and we will deliver higher levels of integration.
So whether it be refining marketing or logistics the opportunities that we look at and how we strategically think about how can we create value across that value chain would include all segments of the business and particularly driven by the complementary impact that they have on each other.
All right.
Thank you so much.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> A number of hopefully quick questions.
Steven let's assume you have achieved on your investment grade any rough estimate how much is the interest saving or that crude purchase saving that you may be able to achieve because I presume that you no longer need to post the net (34:19) so any rough estimate on what is the benefit? Sure.
Good morning.
I think the most substantial benefit will be on the cost of debt within TLLP.
And if you look at the current debt levels there roughly $3 billion and that will continue to grow as we grow the business.
And just based upon what we have looked at historically on an average basis of spreads that could be 150 basis points or 250 basis points.
So call it $60 million or $80 million a year and probably growing.
So that's a direct savings.
But probably equally important is the ability to have longer duration debt and have more stable access to the markets.
Tesoro obviously carries some debt as well so I think about that 150 basis point number makes sense at the Tesoro level.
And then you're right there will be commercial and operational savings although given how strong our financial performance is we've been working on that already.
So even absent investment-grade we've been driving down LC costs and borrowing costs with suppliers.
There will be some there but it will be smaller than the interest savings.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
And Steven or Greg do you guys have a cash return PL target? I think we do think about all of those collectively.
We think about driving total shareholder return.
And when you look at the levers to do that we think the biggest lever we can pull to create the best shareholder return is our business improvement organic growth programs really across the portfolio followed by smart and thoughtful acquisitions that bolt into that that either accelerate those growths or add to it.
And then in terms of the dividend we want to grow the dividend over time as the company grows.
And then when you have excess cash beyond those things buyback shares – and you have seen what we have done with buybacks and we would like to be able to continue to do all of those.
And so the key is to make sure that even in a market – neutral environment which we plan to that we can generate operational cash from the business to fund all of that and still naturally delever and yet have a stronger balance sheet as we do it.
Those are the variables we think about Paul.
So over time you look at the last five years the growth in just the value of the shares has substantially returned more relative value.
If you look at the three impacts of dividend share purchase and the stock we hope to keep driving all three of those collectively to be top in the industry.
Inc.</span></strong> Greg the fourth quarter turnaround you said primarily accrued unit or it is conversion units in California for you guys? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The fourth quarter turnaround is actually coming to completion here and it is primarily accrued unit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Steven do you have an estimate what might have been the opportunity cost loss from the trend downturn in the third quarter? We actually came in about where we expected to.
So when we kind of set out our throughput rates – and actually they were actually down a little bit early compared – we don't quantify our LTO per se.
But when we give you our guidance and our outlook we kind of take all of that into account.
And on the utilization side we actually came in a little bit favorable to what we thought going into the third quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> A final question.
Greg I think last time I asked and you said that in order for you to keep the schedule to be on track for the LA integration project and the mixed xylene you need to get the permit by probably the first half of next year.
Any change in view that whether you still believe that you are progressing and that should be able to achieve or that you think we may see some delay? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're exactly right Paul in our critical path on both the Los Angeles project and the mixed xylene project the isomerization project and Vancouver Energy permitting is in the critical path of every one of those projects.
And we are actively working every one of those permitting processes.
But I will tell you it's very difficult.
Permitting is incredibly challenging in that but right now everything that we see we stay on our plan.
But it's not easy.
It's very difficult.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And just want to – I have a final point I want to say thank you that consolidating your presentation into your press release on the guidance saved us some headache because it's too many presentation and perhaps we need doing the earning season so really helpful.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
Take care.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi there.
I'm going to start with sort of a philosophical question.
Your business mix you've got free cash flow from your mature refining assets you've been operating well and that's created a strong sponsorship for the midstream growth and the retail.
Obviously the cash flows for refining right now they're good.
In other times they're not so good.
So there is sort of a through cycle free cash flow which creates the strength for you to be aggressive in the midstream.
As you think about bolt-on acquisitions how do you think about that balance evolving? Are you worried that you'll end up with too much sort of logistics growth assets that need external funding and not enough cash flow in the refining coal? Just some thoughts around that general balance.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the logistics assets are pretty much self-funding Ed.
So they're not tied.
If you look they're almost completely standalone with the exception of when Tesoro takes back equity.
So from a logistics standpoint we're very confident we can continue to grow that business by our capability to both fund through debt equity both public and Tesoro-backed equity there and that model will continue to sustain itself.
The other part from the cash flow generated from refining as Steven has said a couple of time today that one is we are very focused on investing in driving high reliability in our assets through our asset integrity programs and making very very good progress from that standpoint.
And that requires a certain amount of cash flow which isn't part of free cash flow but it's important to recognize that that is a use of cash that we generated from refining operations.
But we believe with the improvements that we've driven in the refining business and the way that we operate the model that even in an environment that were to maybe not be as attractive as we've seen over the last few years we'll still have cash flow that will allow us to do the things that we need to do with the company.
And then a question is how we grow our marketing business.
We want to be able to grow our marketing business and that requires some cash also do that.
And we'll talk more about that at our Analyst Meeting.
And then you mentioned bolt-on acquisitions.
I mean presumably those are all – are they midstream retail or do they include refining as well? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> When we talk about bolt-on acquisitions those are primarily in the marketing and logistics space.
They're not – a bolt-on acquisition wouldn't be a acquisition of say a refinery.
We would consider that a little bit different.
And then California you said you're going to raise your outlook for next year but I mean eventually efficiency gains are going to kick in to that market and that may impact margins longer term.
Is this a signal of sort of a sustainable increase in margins or would just sort of for the next few years? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think on the West Coast as we look at the drivers our view is that they are fundamental – the margin environment on the West Coast is fundamentally supported by the supply/demand the economic environment on the West Coast and that we see that kind of being able to sustain itself like that.
So we see that is a sustainable improvement in the environment.
So sort of five-year timeframe.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Out in time.
I don't know three years five years 10 years.
The threat is not only in California but everywhere else is what happens to gasoline demand over time and then how are the reactions to gasoline demand if it declines over time.
Our view is it will slightly decline going out over a longer timeframe like you said but not significantly.
Helpful and clear.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Faisel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Is it possible for you to breakdown sort of the profitability from retail and marketing? I mean it looks like this is sort of the strongest unit margin we've seen since you recast the numbers.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So just trying to figure out sort of how this breaks down.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean you're exactly right.
I mean per unit profitability is extremely strong.
But I'm not sure if I understand what you mean break it down.
It's strong ...
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Well I guess there's the – sorry there is this retail component and then there is the marketing component and the retail fuel margin and then there's the wholesale of marketing margin which I think is – they can move in different directions.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We just talk about it as our overall aggregate refining margin and not the details.
I mean I think the point to make is that the aggregate margin from our marketing business was stronger than it has been.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Do those two businesses sort of move together in tandem or can they sometimes move in opposite directions? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean they're driven by competitive market factors so they can move different way depending on what's going on in the marketplace.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then in terms of – you guys talked about you paid down roughly $400 million in debt.
Is there a target of how much more you'd like to pay down from here on out or are we sort of at the level you would like? I think in terms of the leverage levels we're even beyond what's required for investment-grade at Tesoro.
The key here around this was to pay down secured debt and that's really what we wanted to accomplish by paying down the term loan.
But we're well below what's required from a leverage perspective at Tesoro.
So we've got the flexibility on the balance sheet now to execute the strategy and achieve investment-grade.
At TLLP in fact debt levels on an absolute basis will increase to support the growth and so the key with TLLP is to continue to move closer and closer to that $1 billion of EBITDA to have that kind of standalone size that warrants investment-grade rating.
And so that's how I would think about it from a macro perspective.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And as we think about sort of the movement of crude by rail to the West Coast for you guys there was some commentary in the public domain about some of the Canadian rail companies reducing their rates in order to bring more business back on their rail systems.
I just want to understand I mean is there any sort of benefit that that could accrue to you in terms of potentially lower costs? Are those negotiations that you've had or are going to have? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think Faisel the answer to your question is that the competitive pressure being put on the distribution system not only in rail rates but loading rates unloading rates railcar rates and we've been saying for some time we felt like that would manifest into lower total cost to move crude in and you're right the Canadians have publicly stated their effort to maintain to become even more competitive and we believe that that will happen here also.
We see it in pockets already and it will continue to drive a more competitive cost of supply to get the crude oil to the markets that we're very confident will happen and believe that's one of the key drivers why Vancouver Energy will be very attractive.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the time.
Appreciate it.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Blair with Tudor Pickering.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Steven I was wondering if you could provide any color on 2015 CapEx.
Looks like it moved up a little bit with a fairly large increase for TSO but then a drop for TLLP.
Any further color there? Yeah.
So first on the Tesoro side as we moved through the year we identified really two areas where we saw opportunity to make additional investment.
About a third of that has to do with us driving some substantial improvements in our systems and our back office processes to make us – as we've grown the company to make us even more efficient in the back office but it particularly gives us ability to be more scalable as we grow the company with our administrative and back office processes.
The other two-thirds are high return high payback projects that we've identified in refining as we've gone through the year that we really wanted to get on and execute because they're very attractive capital projects.
So that's the increase in Tesoro.
The decrease in TLLP really is more of a timing issue than anything.
We have seen a couple of our projects move and we expect to execute a strong capital program in 2016 which we'll share with you at Investor Day.
But that's the key driver there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Then also Steven can you provide us any sort of number on Tesoro's exposure to the low carbon fuel standard credits in California? It looks like pricing for those credits is up to about $64 a credit in September.
It's only $25 a credit earlier this year.
Is there any way that we can have a sensitivity there to see the impact on Tesoro's EBITDA from the change in these regulatory price credits? Yeah.
As we think about those types of required fees that were to pass on to consumers it's just that.
We're required to pass those along and we do that every day.
And so as we look at it we don't expect it to have a material impact on our business.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then a final question for Greg.
I was curious if you had any thoughts on the Salt Lake refining market going forward.
On the product side we have a couple of refinery expansions coming through this year.
And then on the crude side we've seen a fall in – Utah rig counts have fallen and Utah crude production.
Are we being set up here for structurally lower Salt Lake refining margins going forward? And just any thoughts there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So to answer your second question first there is no question that the waxy crude oil production has been significantly impacted by the price.
And I think to the best of my knowledge there are no rigs drilling for waxy crude oil in Utah at this time.
So we've seen good supply of waxy crude oil in 2015 and I think I mentioned in my comments that during the month of – during the third quarter excuse me we ran about 20 000 barrels a day of waxy crude oil in Salt Lake.
Our plans for 2016 is we've looked at sourcing crude and that we're going to have good supplies of waxy crude oil but below what we would like to be able to run.
So we've sourced waxy crude oil but not to the level.
I mean we have capacity to run that we've demonstrated by our project far greater quantities of waxy crude oil than we ever have in the past but those aren't going to be available.
So that definitely is going to be not as available as it has in the past but we have got good waxy crude oil supply for 2016.
On the capacity expansions in Salt Lake Utah is a very seasonal – that region is a very seasonal market driven by high demand in the summer and less demand in the winter.
And from our standpoint because we drive a very integrated value chain we're able to take our production and put it into our marketing outlets across the whole system which is going into the Utah area and then going North and West up into the Eastern part of Washington and then down into our outlets in Nevada.
So we have the capability to absorb our production into our system and that's the value of our integrated business.
And we'll have to see what happens with other changes out there over time.
I don't know.
We'll see what happens to those changes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Yeah.
Good morning guys.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Evan.
Yeah I mean looking some follow-up to the prior strategic questions and maybe broader in scope.
I mean Greg you've been a very strategic thinker as a CEO and you've made a series of attractive transactions in various different directions.
The upstream market to some extent the midstream market is under incredible stress.
Your results speak for themselves.
I mean how do you see the opportunities that are – the strategic landscape or see the scope to be more transformative in this environment particularly given a reasonably optimistic outlook on refining your base margin business? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably all I can add to your question from other comments earlier Evan is that I think as a company we take a step back and we look at the market where we are.
We're very focused on how we can create value.
We understand what we need to do and how we can create value no matter what segment it's in.
So what's more important to us is how we drive that integrated value because across that value chain the way we invest capital and also by the way we make decisions to optimize the assets it's a fundamental driver of value creation for us.
So as we look at opportunities as I mentioned earlier to maybe – I can't remember if it was Doug or someone that asked a question about the different opportunities – we are looking at unbelievable numbers of things to be able to say how do we strengthen our business position no matter where it is in that value chain.
And the opportunities are – there's some very very interesting opportunities.
Some of them are small and some of them are larger in scale.
But we continue to look at those things.
And we're fairly confident that over time we'll be able to capture and deliver very accretive opportunities for our shareholders...
In your career - President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Yeah.
I mean but in your career with a broader perspective I mean have you seen there's this incredible dislocation right in terms of the upstream to the downstream and the changing of the business model of Tesoro.
Maybe if you've had any thoughts of maybe putting it in a broader historical context because it seems every deal comes down to the particulars.
It just seems as though a very opportunistic kind of market is what I would say.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I wouldn't disagree with you.
I think it is very opportunistic but you have to have ideas and then really dig into those ideas to see what the drivers are and how you can create value so probably not doing a very good job of answering your question.
It's kind of a difficult question on an earnings call to talk about so.
That's fair enough.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think it is.
I think it's an interesting environment and how you look at things has to be considered over time not for today but over time.
And I think that's what the most important thing.
How do you think they fit into the structure of things that are going on that you can find either a niche or an edge there to create value over time and that's what we are trying to do? Okay.
I appreciate your comments.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Roger.
I guess quick question for you.
I don't think anybody has asked it.
I was wondering in California we've seen some discussions that the LCF is leading at least some or the other wholesale players to change their pricing structure.
I was wondering if you could give us any clarity on kind of the impacts – 2014 to 2015 2015 to 2016 here with the LCF and whether or not that's going to impact margins in any way for you? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I think just to be clear – and Steven addressed this a little bit earlier – the regulatory environment in California that's placing additional cost as a result of emissions our view is are being passed on to the consumer; in some places very clearly passed on and the money is turned over to the state by the way that we do that.
And our view is that where we are today and the things that are changing over time that that will continue to be the case.
There's some – some of those – I think when you're referring to the low carbon fuel standard there are actually some uncertainty from a regulatory standpoint of what actually is ultimately going to happen in that – not in the short-term but probably in the little bit more in the intermediate term.
But in general I think the comment is that those additional emission costs are being borne by the consumer.
Okay.
And kind of a change of direction here.
The comments in the press release on the strategic update – and I apologize if some of this has been asked before – but I just wanted to understand in terms of the logistics side of the business the $255 million and then there is commentary about the $213 million which is clearly being driven by the growth in the higher processing volumes and it sounds like just general movement of natural gas.
How much of that is sort of a market share gain growth that was already in place? Is there any risk of a lack of underlying growth in gas supply in that region that could impact your growth expectations in 2016 and 2017? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
You have to look at all the – we have three primary segments in our logistics company.
We have our refined products segment which is the biggest part of the business.
And that's very stable and there's some opportunities in that part of the business.
Our crude oil gathering and pipeline business has continued to grow.
And even in a difficult environment because of where our assets are and our ability to source crude from those assets into our refining system we see the potential to continue to grow and even expand that business into certain areas.
And then the natural gas business because it's primarily concentrated in the Rocky Mountain area has been solid.
And we see solid performance there.
And the opportunities we see which Steven alluded a little bit earlier in his comments about the capital program some of them being impacted by timing but the fundamental drivers are different than what we saw there.
So we see continued solid performance in our natural gas business.
So is it reasonable to assume you do have market share growth in that region then? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Definitely market share growth in the crude oil business.
Maintaining our position in the natural gas business and as some of our customers have grown their production we maintain their – their growth drives our growth.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hi Greg.
Good morning.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Paul.
How are you doing? Fine thank you sir.
It sounds like you're doing good as well – doing well I should say.
Greg we had an interesting conversation in January about the crude market and then about the positioning of the Saudis (60:57).
Could you just give us your latest thoughts on things like the declines that we are likely to see in the Bakken and how that will affect you? You mentioned to me in January crude competition in the Pacific basin has been potentially very impactful in this market share war environment.
I'd just be very interested by your latest views.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably Paul not a lot different.
I mean we're seeing very competitive pricing of foreign crude oils into the West Coast from the Middle East and actually other places.
And our ability to take some different grades of crude which helps drive our business improvement opportunities has been very good.
We're working on ways to continue to enhance the delivery costs of those crudes in that and making very good progress.
So the overall market environment is – there is no question whether the impact on prices has had an impact on some of the differentials.
But in general the ability to get the supply and take other types of crude oil into our system has worked out extremely well and our ability to get crude from the Middle East is very attractive.
I guess you're talking about tanker rates is that what you're referring to there? President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Not just tanker rates but really what we're trying to do to optimize the supply cost so once we get the crude into our system how we can take advantage of supply multiple refineries with crude from like the VLCCs and things we're doing to actually – to even – we're working on some pretty creative things that we haven't done yet on the West Coast that will allow us to get even lower delivery costs into the system that we'll talk more about next year.
But really focused on how do you capture some cost savings by the actual delivery of the crude oil into our system regardless of that how the crude is priced in that.
Okay.
And then can you just – a follow-on will just be on rail economics and how the whole rail strategy now looks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So for us it's primarily bringing Bakken crude oil to the West Coast.
First we're very confident that the pressure on the cost along that whole distribution system from loading to unloading and rail rates and railcar costs and all that are under a lot of pressure.
And they aren't going to come down pretty significantly in our view over time here which will further improve the competitiveness specifically of moving Bakken crude oil into the West Coast.
And so how we think Bakken crude oil will trade relative to the alternatives of primarily going to the middle part of the country or to the Gulf Coast the rail economics will still be supportive of taking it to the West Coast.
Understood.
See you in December Greg.
Thanks.
President and Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.