Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2015 Tesoro Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Sam Ramraj.
Please proceed.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings.
Joining me are Greg Goff Chairman and CEO and Steven Sterin Executive Vice President and CFO.
The earnings release which includes financial disclosure and reconciliations for non-GAAP financial measures should help you in analyzing our results and can be found on our website at tsocorp.com.
Please refer to the forward-looking statements in the earnings release which says statements made during this call that refer to management's expectations and our future predictions are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the Safe Harbor provisions of the Securities Act as there are many factors which could cause results to differ from expectations.
Now I will turn the call over to Steven.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'll review our fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial performance and then turn the call over to Greg.
Yesterday we reported fourth quarter and full year results.
2015 was a record for EBITDA and earnings for Tesoro.
This performance demonstrates the value of our highly integrated business model and successful execution of our annual improvement plans.
Fourth quarter net earnings from continuing operations were $54 million or $0.45 per diluted share compared to $172 million or $1.34 per diluted share last year.
Reported results for the quarter include an inventory charge due to a lower cost to market valuation adjustment of $167 million after-tax or $1.38 per diluted share.
This adjustment is the result of the decline in crude oil and product prices relative to our LIFO carrying values.
Excluding this item adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter were $221 million or $1.83 per diluted share.
Reported results in the quarter included the following three items $30 million or $0.15 a share from the impact of additional RIN cost accruals following the recently announced EPA requirements under the Renewable Fuel Standard program; $24 million or $0.07 a share representing an increase in the expected remediation costs associated with the 2013 crude oil pipeline release at Tioga North Dakota; and $15 million or $0.07 per diluted share of asset impairments due to the current crude oil price environment.
Total corporate and unallocated costs for the fourth quarter were $97 million which was higher than our guidance of $75 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher than expected accruals for some corporate expenses.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $665 million an increase of 29% from $570 million a year ago.
For the full year 2015 net earnings from continuing operations was $1.5 billion or $12.39 per diluted share versus $872 million or $6.67 per share a year ago.
Excluding special items net earnings for 2015 was $1.7 billion or $13.91 per diluted share compared to $911 million or $6.97 per diluted share for 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $3.9 billion up 71% from $2.3 billion a year ago.
Turning to our business segment results.
Refining adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter 2015 was $414 million an increase of 119% from $189 million a year ago.
Total refinery throughput for the fourth quarter was 807 000 barrels a day or 95% utilization.
The Tesoro Index for the fourth quarter was $15.60 per barrel with the realized gross refining margin of $12.76 per barrel or 82% of the Tesoro Index.
This quarter's capture rate was primarily impacted by narrowing crude oil differentials.
For instance Bakken differentials in the quarter narrowed over $2 relative to WTI and almost $6 relative to [ANS].
Manufacturing costs in the fourth quarter increased over $0.08 per barrel over last year to $5.62 due to unplanned repairs and maintenance during the quarter.
For full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA for refining was $2.7 billion a year-over-year increase of 68%.
Total refinery throughput for 2015 was 787 000 barrels a day or 93% utilization.
The realized gross refining margin for 2015 was $16.22 a barrel or a capture of 84% of the Tesoro Index.
2015 capture rates were impacted by the labor disruptions in the first quarter narrowed crude oil differentials refinery downtime inventory impacts related to falling crude oil prices and running more intermediate feedstock and refineries during turnarounds and maintenance.
Moving to logistics this segment's adjusted EBITDA was $155 million in the fourth quarter compared to $94 million a year ago.
These results include a charge of approximately $24 million for expected future remediation costs for the 2013 Tioga North Dakota crude oil pipeline release.
The substantial year-over-year increase in EBITDA was primarily driven by contributions from our Rockies Natural Gas Business which delivered $285 million of EBITDA in 2015 and increased volumes through all of TLLP’s business segments.
The total general partner and limited partner distributions received by Tesoro were $42 million during the fourth quarter and $148 million for the year.
This is an increase of $61 million or 70% versus full year 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $636 million up from $318 million last year.
For our marketing segment adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $187 million compared to $273 million last year.
The decline is largely attributed to lower marketing margins.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was a record $945 million a year-over-year increase of 59% and was driven by strong growth in consumer demand that led to higher fuel volumes.
Marketing integration increased to 94% for the year versus 86% a year ago.
As the result of strong operational performance annual improvements and favorable market conditions Tesoro generated $1.3 billion of free cash flow in 2015.
Turning to uses of this free cash flow for 2015 we invested $550 million in high return capital projects repurchased approximately 6.9 million shares for $644 million paid dividends of $228 million and repaid $398 million of secured debt at Tesoro.
We remain committed to delivering strong free cash flow and allocating capital to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Looking ahead you can find details of our planned throughout manufacturing costs and other elements related to our first quarter outlook in our earnings release issued yesterday.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
2015 was a strong year for the company with several accomplishments and significant progress on our growth plans despite the challenges that we experienced during the year.
We achieved record EBITDA in all business segments supported by strong consumer demand favorable market conditions and our annual improvement program.
In 2015 the Tesoro index was $19.31 per barrel as a result of some of the unplanned operating issues in the industry on the West Coast.
For 2016 we expect a Tesoro Index of $12 to $14 per barrel which is an improvement of $1.50 to $2 per barrel versus 2014.
The lower crude oil price environment is supportive to product demand.
For 2015 [US Clean] product demand was up approximately 2% year-over-year and [PAD 5] cleaning product demand was up 2.5%.
Vehicle miles traveled in [PAD 5] has continued to outpace the US average.
In November California miles traveled had a robust year-over-year growth rate of 6.7% compared to the US growth rate of 3.4%.
Turning to our operations for the fourth quarter.
Overall we had a challenging December in our refining segment due to some unplanned downtime.
In the West Coast region the Los Angeles refinery experienced problems with both the fluid catalytic crackers and this impacted our cleaning product yield.
Our operations in the mid-continent and the Pacific Northwest had high utilization in the quarter.
However capture rates were impacted primarily by narrowing crude oil differentials.
We were able to optimize our operations and achieve 95% utilization which was in line with our guidance.
During the quarter we completed the projects to install flare gas recovery systems at our Salt Lake City Mandan and Anacortes refineries.
The $217 million in combined projects were delivered under budget and on time and these recovery systems allow us to reduce the amount of emissions and potential of flaring events at these refineries.
Moving to our logistics segment.
During 2015 we continued to execute our strategy to grow TLLP’s integrated full service logistics business.
Volumes in all of our business segments continued to grow in the face of a challenging and difficult commodity price environment.
During 2015 our crude oil gathering volumes were up 37% year-over-year.
Natural gas gathering volumes increased approximately 5% year-over-year.
Fee-based processing and NGL processing throughout increased approximately 8% and 20% respectively and terminating volumes were up 4% transportation pipeline volumes were up 3% year-over-year.
We are very pleased with the performance of our Rockies Natural Gas Business in 2015.
For the full year the Rockies Natural Gas Business contributed $285 million of adjusted EBITDA exceeding its target of $275 million.
Based on the combined value of the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business for $2.5 billion and the approximately $400 million value for the QEPM merger TLLP realized an implied multiple of approximately 10 times EBITDA in our first full calendar year of ownership.
This was basically one year ahead of our original goal.
Because of the successful integration we were able to capture approximately $30 million of synergies in the full year 2015 exceeding our $25 million target.
TLLP also announced several new organic growth projects that should position TLLP for future growth.
Additionally TLLP continued to grow our portfolio of our logistics assets through the acquisition of the Los Angeles storage and pipeline asset acquisition from Tesoro in November of 2015.
We remain committed to growing our full service logistics business through our focus on four things growing and optimizing our stable fee-based business expanding our backlog of high-return organic growth projects pursuing strategic third-party acquisitions and finally providing future dropdown opportunities.
Now turning to marketing.
This segment contributed significantly to our performance for 2015.
EBITDA was a record $945 million and the fuel margin was $0.14 per gallon.
In the fourth quarter we improved our integration to 94% from 86% a year ago increased same-store sales by about 1% and signed a strategic supply agreement with a key customer to sell fuel at 55 high volume retail stations in the greater Las Vegas Nevada area.
Shifting to our annual improvements.
We successfully executed our plans and estimate improvements of approximately $670 million versus our $550 million to $670 million goal.
We delivered approximately $350 million in West Coast improvements and capturing margin improvements.
These include pipeline connections between the Los Angeles refinery new cargo sharing between our California refineries the completion of the second phase expansion of the waxy crude project at our Salt Lake City refinery improved crude blending processing at our Mandan refinery and operating expense reductions.
We also delivered approximately $320 million of logistics growth in 2015 against our target of $325 million to $375 million.
Tesoro expects to deliver between $400 million and $500 million of annual improvements in 2016 through refining improvements of $200 million to $250 million from better flexibility and yield optimization and cost management; logistics improvement of $175 million to $200 million through acquisitions and organic growth projects and marketing improvements of $25 million to $50 million through small acquisitions and organic growth.
Additionally we are making strategic investments that should add long-term value and are currently progressing well in the permitting process.
These include the Los Angeles integration and compliance project the cleaning product upgrade project on the west coast and the Vancouver energy project.
The Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council or EFSEC released a draft environmental impact statement in November of 2015 and the public comment period closed January 22.
Once EFSEC completes its final environmental impact statement and completes an adjudicating phase we expect EFSEC to submit its recommendation to the governor of Washington.
We are very committed to the proposed 360 000 barrel per day crude oil rail to marine terminal and remain confident that a thorough evaluation will clearly demonstrate that we can design construct and operate a safe environmentally responsible facility that offers benefits to the state of Washington and the west coast.
Let me conclude by saying that we remain focused on strong operating performance for 2016 and executing our annual improvements and with that we will now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Greg I've got two if I may.
First of all on the retail numbers obviously pretty astonishing for the whole year but we've had a year where we've had a couple of major pull backs and oil prices one at the start I guess one in the middle and I guess you could say three at the end which obviously helps the retail lag effect.
So what I'm kind of wondering is as you see it what do you think mid-cycle a good mid-cycle number is absent those kind of effects given the otherwise strength of the retail market in California and I've got a follow-up please.
Well first good morning Doug.
The answer to your question about how we see the marketing environment for Tesoro is that in our analyst meeting in December we stated that kind of on a mid-cycle basis we estimate the EBITDA contribution from marketing at around $650 million a year and that is kind of the base that we have set as we continue to make improvements in the marketing business.
And that was before acquisitions right? Right that is just kind of a base with the current business that we have under how we see the market environment going forward marketing margin environment going forward.
Thank you.
My follow-up is really just more of a micro-comment to the West Coast margins obviously we are in – I guess we are in the low demand period it is winter time I suppose.
It's not terribly cold I suppose but the point is that West Coast margins have come off pretty hard and I'm curious as to how you see the outlook for 2016 relative to 2015 given obviously the impact that [Indiscernible] had for most of last year.
Any insight you can offer on that would be helpful? Thank you.
Yes I think – it is a good question Doug.
I think it is easier to base your reference case on 2014 versus 2015 just because of the extenuating issues on the west coast in 2015.
So when we look at the West Coast market fundamentals for 2016 we see supportive demand in the marketplace driven by the economic conditions on the West Coast the unemployment rate vehicle miles of all those factors.
So we see continued supportive demand on the West Coast and when you look at the fundamentals of just production and demand and the ability to move products off of the west coast is to seek higher margin markets and that the fundamentals look very good to us and as we said in the past we see margins relative to 2014 up between $1 to $2 a barrel because [Indiscernible] is running at reasonably high utilization rates.
I appreciate that Greg.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Hi Neil.
So Greg question related to the Tesoro index which is up a couple of bucks versus the 2014 level.
I guess the question is related to the crude differentials that are embedded within that Tesoro index both for things like Brent Bakken and Brent WTI.
Given what we see on our screen today is there a delta between what is baked into the index and what is on the screen? And then if this does become the new normal which at least for 2016 what levers do you have to adjust your fleet and your crude slate to adjust to that? Steven is going to respond to your question Neil.
Yes if you look at the last couple of quarters I think they are pretty good indicators of how the differentials kind of flow through our margins.
When you look at Q3 and we had a capture rate of about 90% and in Q4 as we reported today we came in at about 82% and that is really driven primarily by what has happened with differentials in particular mid-continent Bakken Canadian crudes differentials came down substantially.
As we look forward to the first quarter into next year as we said at Investor Day we using a planning basis of transportation economics setting the differentials across the crude.
So depending on your longer-term view we still think that that is fundamentally which should set our capture rate and when they return to those levels we think capture rate in the high 90s 100% make sense as we said in Investor Day but clearly right now the markets not pricing the crude oil differentials at transportation.
So we are seeing that headwind as we saw in the fourth quarter.
So the final answer in response to your question Neil about what are the levers and [Indiscernible] naturally we will look at all the different types of crude that we can substitute and also how can we find through our logistics system part of our integrated value with ways to capture advantages in crude supply costs and that they will be able to reflect in our crude cost but that is not going to offset all of it.
So like Steven said at least in the early part of the year we think we are under – it is under pressure with the crude diffs.
It makes a lot of sense.
Thanks Greg and Steven.
The follow-up question is just related to M&amp;A can you talk big picture how you think aboutthe opportunityset that is out there as it relates to refining M&amp;A and then especially in the mid-continent you have expressed interest is that being a region where you want to grow is that still the place that you want the build the business? Our view of the future is still based upon what you just said Neil and our focus has always been to identify any potential opportunities that we believe would be a strong fit with our business and primarily allow us to be able to go in and create value by how we operate the business and how we can execute our business model in that.
So as part of any evaluations that we do and we have been doing them for ever since I have been at Tesoro we look at the same all of those factors but we are also very aware of the market environment and what is happening to crack spreads.
We do our own projections on where we see crack spreads growing as well as crude oil differentials and those all factor into it.
So our approach is really unchanged and we just have to see what happens as we go forward.
I appreciate the comments.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Neil.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
I have actually several quick questions the first one is for Stevens Stevens in the past when we see rapid changes of oil prices towards the end of the quarter you create a mismatch between the fiscal barrel when it is being posted and the paper barrel that you hedge on the changing value.
So you could be either hedging gain or hedging loss due to that timing gap in this quarter do we have that and if we do how big is that number? Yes actually I think Doug mentioned earlier that we saw several significant moves down in crude throughout the year and so there has been a lot of volatility in that calculation that you just mentioned.
Actually when you look at the fourth quarter on a standalone basis we had about as much as that coming into the quarter as going out.
So the fourth quarter number is pretty reflective of what is underneath the business but you are right when you see a rapid decline in crude oil prices in the back half of a quarter particularly in the last few weeks like we saw you do have some headwind that you got offset coming into the next quarter.
We would estimate that to be somewhere between $50 million and $75 million.
Okay but for the fourth quarter spend along that incoming and out coming [Indiscernible]? That is right.
Okay.
And that on the turnaround activities by looking at 2016 and since you gave the throughput already for something from the second quarter to the end of the year comparing to 2015 should we assume it is going to be higher lower or about the same? I think Paul the best way to look at the turnaround activity for the company is we provide the dollar magnitude which you are aware of for ’16 and you can look at it relative to ’15 you can see that it is slightly higher in ’16 versus ’15 and for our system most of it is concentrated in the first – early part of the year probably the first four months of the year and then in the latter part of the year.
So it is pretty quiet all the time in-between there.
So we are just completing the turnaround at Martinez.
We are going into turnaround at Los Angeles and then we will do turnarounds at the latter part of the year.
Great.
When we are talking about the turnaround maybe I can ask this question last year don’t know whether you think the same way about this since now you have more than your fair share of operating upside in your west coast and Pacific Northwest system just curious that is that a structural issue related to the asset some hardware or that is primarily human error or it is just purely unlucky? Yes Paul I think first you are accurate that the way we evaluate our profitability or lack of profitability when we have operating problem was higher in 2015 than what we expect to occur normally in the system and really it's a number of problems that -- different things that caused different problems at times and unfortunately some of them are kind of sound like simple things like when we lost power because we had a power outage up in Pacific North West that caused the refinery to go down that's sort of caused LPOs -- not that aren’t built into our plants but it is not structural it is not human error it's none of those factors.
It's just a combination of a number of different things that we continue to work on and drive improvements in our system.
Do you have a rough estimate what was the actual repay cost and the loss opportunity cost in the fourth quarter related to the turn [ph] down time? Yes I think it's little bit challenging in the fourth quarter for a couple of reasons.
One was that the actual downtime from not running was probably in the $50 million to $75 million range.
Unfortunately it's also complicated at the end of the year when you have downtime and you build inventories on that.
So that doesn't include the total system impact but I mentioned in my speaking points that we had issues with both cat crackers at the Los Angeles refinery and those the impact on those what we would call our loss profit opportunity was $50 million to $75 million.
Those are corrected and they are back up and running and everything is in good condition once again.
But there are side impacts on that that we don't talk about in that $50 million to $75 million because it's how we build inventory and how we are going to run inventory in a number of different factors.
Okay.
A final question.
Greg is there any additional update comparing to December and the next meeting on the permit receiving permit for the aero [ph] integration part and the [Indiscernible] ? So on all of our kind of our three major strategic initiatives on Los Angeles like you said Paul on West coast what we call our product upgrade project which includes xylenes as well as Vancouver energy.
They are all in the permitting phase.
Everything from is progressing it's in the hands of the agencies the different agencies are responsible for those and we are -- I talked about the Vancouver energy where we stand on that we are expecting the environmental impacts study from the Los Angeles hopefully any day now and we are in the environmental impact study up in the Pacific North West on that.
So those are that's kind of where they all stand.
So the previous guidance in terms of time line you gave in December -- do you just assume that still you haven't seen anything that changed from those time line? At this point in time today we have not seen that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Yes.
So I’m -- just a month has passed since the analyst day but when I think about some of the risks to your projections the first one I would like to talk about a little bit is on the retail side.
I mean have you made any progress in terms of hiring new people to continue to build out that organization which is one of the things I think you were going to do? Yes and we are advancing the work on our retail plan that we talked about in December and feel very confident that we are moving ahead well with our implementation plan.
Right.
I mean any change in the progress on M&amp;A I mean or we’ll just wait until things get announced.
Yes that was -- I mean that was kind of our future view of things that we would be working on and as you would completely understand that’s something that happens overtime and its things that we will develop as we go forward so… Okay.
Then switching to the permitting you said progress but any updates on particularly I guess LA integration and the xylenes and clean fuels projects? Nothing addition to what I just answered in response to Paul's question that we are in that we’re fully involved in the process.
As a company we are highly responsive to the request from the different agencies to answer questions and all that and we at the end of the day we have to be we are depended upon them to kind of move the ball forward and that's where we are on all of them.
So right now we don't see any issues or obstacles of that but we are in the process and as you’ve heard us say some of them are a very long process.
Okay.
And then final quick one just you managed to get a new credit facility I think for TLLP also you were once worried about MLP funding stress but maybe talk a little bit about any concerns or otherwise that you have about funding the drop down into a TLLP from a TSO perspective? Yes a good question Ed and I appreciate you asked it.
Let me ask Steven to comment on that.
Yes we are really pleased with what we have been able to do with creating a very flexible and larger and lower cost revolver within TLLP.
That’s now closed and we’ve gone from a capacity of 900 million to 1.7 with really two capacities one for a billion to able to allow us to fund drop downs and the rest for general purposes.
And we are able to do that with a lower overall spreads and importantly as we want to move TLLP to investment grid and Tesoro it's got fall over covenants now that allow it to become an investment grade facility.
So in terms of that part of the balance sheet we feel very good about having the capacity to manage short term liquidity needs.
The longer term or in the intermediate term the debt and equity markets in MLP space are very unstable right now; lot of volatility very very poor fund flow is going into the space.
And so as we said in the Investor Day we’ve really got two portfolios of investments in there the organic growth projects which are about $400 million that are planned for 2016 which we feel we could fund very very easily through our ATM program that's equity from unit holders as well as small amount of debt.
The drop downs we continue to have in our plan two drop downs for 2016 that's what we talked about at Investor Day the great northern acquisition that we just completed as well as the Alaska assets.
Once we complete closure of that transaction and so we are preparing to be able to do that.
We think there is still good drop downs to make.
The uncertainty is when will the MLP market support those types of transactions.
So we continue to monitor that and we will be prepared to execute when the market stabilize.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Ed.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh of JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Phil.
First question is just a follow up to that to the extent that the MLP markets remain challenged would you be willing to take back units to support the drops or use lower multiple or do something creative or would you be more inclined to slow down the drop pace of the market and remain challenging? I think we always look at all those options but we think it's important to for Tesoro to get cash from these drop downs.
We have laid out that base plan for this year kind of recognizing the weakness in MLP market of 50% cash proceeds coming from drop downs ideally it would be more than that.
And so we’ll look at all the facts and circumstances the markets develop but that wouldn't be our primary path.
And in terms of evaluation we really each transaction has sustained on its own and be done at market.
And so we don't think it makes a lot of sense to try to force something.
We wanted if you think about the principals what we do with drop downs we are supportive to TLP growth.
It provides cash back to Tesoro and it -- we do that in a way that puts us on a path to investment grade.
And so trying to flex other variables that compromise those principals is not our primary approach.
Understood.
Okay.
Second question is just on the California capture rates.
Greg you mentioned that $50 million to $75 million headwind but even despite that actually the capture rate in California looked reasonably stable over the past couple of quarters.
So ex that I mean as you look ahead to 2016 and all the business improvements that you are targeting especially in the West coast do you know the way that you are thinking about what you would like to target for that capture rate? Well of course we’d like to capture 100% of the index and that's what we would strive to do.
And we have more flexibility in California versus some of the other questions that was asked about capture specifically if you go into like Mandan or Salt lake or where more pricing of WTI.
So I mean our forecast for ANS crude related to brand is still in the same range that it's been over the last few years in that but we see opportunities particularly from yields and that to continue to work on our capture there.
So we view the California region the West coast region from a capture more favorably versus the inland markets.
Sure.
Okay.
Last question is just on the cash from operations.
Was there a sizable working capital impact in the quarter or that TSO [ph] was weaker than my model? Yes we would have expected actually to either generate cash from drawing down working capital or remain close to flat and we had about $150 million working capital charge in the quarter on the balance sheet.
Greg mentioned that earlier as we look at operational issues causing us to build inventory at the end of the year when we would have wanted to draw inventory that's the headwind he was speaking of.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Sam Margolin from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
How are you? Good Sam.
Some investors have noticed that the margins currently are implying some real pressure for the Asian refining system and potential utilization swings and shut capacity as a result.
I wonder if you are noticing any developments on that front and I ask because PADD 5 gasoline imports were up quite a bit last year given the price environment and the added deterrent.
So any color on sort of the trans-Pacific environment I think would be helpful to frame the 2016 outlook against your more positive underlying view of demand.
Yes I think you can you hear some of the factors going on kind of particularly centered around China and what’s happening in Asia with demand and that it definitely will have an impact on the crack spread environment in Asia.
I think though Sam from a West coast standpoint we don't see that having an impact on the West coast the imports you are exactly right were higher because the market needed the product to come in to meet the demand as a result of the operating problems on the West coast last year.
And we believe once those kind of work for the system especially on the West coast that the overall fundamentals like I said earlier are supportive to a good margin environment in 2016.
Okay.
Thanks.
And this one is a little bit more focused on your own assets.
After the Los Angeles integration it sounds like the system is going to be referred to as sort of one refinery.
Is that going to have any effect on how we should think about turnarounds if there is more redundancy and you referenced the turnaround at Los Angeles or some down time the capture effect or the yield effect might come through the results differently and is that or maybe that’s just embedded in your improvement targets anyway? Well from a way the system is talked about and reflected in our reporting the Los Angeles was integrated financially almost on day one when we took over.
So we don't have -- we don't keep two sets of books on each part of the two refinery.
So that was integrated immediately the next step as you just pointed out is actual physical integration which helps us to optimize the configuration refinery like we have talked about now for the last couple of years where we basically able to shut down a cat cracker that existed at the Wilmington portion of the Los Angeles refinery and drive better flexibility between the yields off of the refinery now but you won’t see any differences in how we talk about it really and it won’t change turnarounds of that it just gives us a lot more flexibility to operate the refinery.
Understood.
Thanks so much.
Thank you Sam.
Your next question comes from Jeff Dietert of Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hi Jeff.
I was hoping to talk a little bit about the Pacific North West and crude feet stock flexibility you highlighted in your opening remarks that the Bakken ANS differentials contracted could you talk about your flexibility to shift away from Bakken in periods when those differentials narrow and with this competitive market are you seeing the rail transportation cost become from competitive how do the Bakken barrels look economically for Pacific North West? Yes so we have the things flexibility that existed before we started moving Bakken to the West coast which would put us using if we chose to using more ANS and then look for other types of foreign crews that we could bring in to the Pacific North West.
Steven talked about the crude dips [ph] particularly the Bakken and this now that have been under a lot of pressure and that we are starting to see lowering of the supply chain cost to get the crude over there that it's starting to happen and in different parts of the supply chain and we believe that over time here in the next short period of time we will be able to make that cost very competitive especially with for example the pipeline cost to get to the Gulf Coast of the United States and we still get the yield advantage that we have talked about for sometime relative to like say running ANS on the West coast.
Great.
Great.
On the marketing side congratulations on the record earnings and appreciate the normalized margin you provided earlier on the call.
Could you talk a little bit about the major drivers of profitability within retail for example the TSO index was similar in 4Q to2Q of last year yet there was fairly significant difference in fuel margin could you just highlight in that consolidated marketing organization what those major drivers of profitability are that it could cause it to be stronger or weaker than the index might suggest? Yes I didn't look at your specific question Jeff.
You looked at something differently than I have looked at 4Q to 2Q I haven't looked that.
We can definitely go back and look at that but the drivers are for us in the marketing business are one is getting high throughput through the systems because we can cross all of the different models that we have whether it be our wholesale business or our we are company owned but operated by the multi-side operators.
And then the big lever for us is in our ARCO model of being able to go in and drive improvements in that business that are across the board and all things of how the market reacts to the changing prices.
Okay.
And I then I guess we historically kind of tracked the retail side of the equation but the wholesale profitability is going to vary I guess primarily directionally with crude and product prices is that fair? Right.
Okay.
Thanks for your comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Your next question comes from Bradley Heffern from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Brad.
Greg just thinking about repurchases in the current environment I am sort of curious how value driven you are at the moment? Obviously the stock has come up a decent amount does that make you want to allocate more capital at the repurchases or do you purely think about it as a return of capital that you don't need to run the business? Brad we look we have a very balanced and disciplined approach to how we manage the cash in the company and we are always looking forward to we are not worried about just a day but we are looking what our plans are for the next 12 to 24 months and our priorities they haven't changed actually.
The first priority is that we have very valuable strategic projects that we want to be able to drive our fundamental improvement in the overall profitability of the company.
We’ve talked about those in the past.
So we have a portfolio of those projects.
Today we have some larger projects that we have already mentioned and then we always have a number of small ones that we kind of balance the amount of cash that we want to return in the business but we are very disciplined about putting a certain amount of cash back into the business that helps drive fundamental improvement overtime so that we get that value from there.
And then secondly to be able to go in and maintain a very competitive dividend and then use the free cash flow to be able to then purchase stock back in that.
So that's the drivers for us is we always look at what we have going on over the next 12 to sometimes as long as 24 months because of the timing of major projects that and take a very balanced approach to managing the cash flow from the company.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
I think that's clear.
And then just thinking about TLLP can you talk a little bit about your volume outlook for the system on both the oil and the gas side obviously I think you are guiding to lower gasoline atleast in the first quarter but do you see yourself having an advantage where you can offset the overall decline in those basins? Yes we are -- I mean the gas lines that we are guiding to little bit lower as the seasonal issue so just to be clear about that.
So I think generally across our entire system we see good support on the volumes from whether it be in the crude oil gas refined products.
And so we don't see any unnecessary pressure on any of those parts of the TLLP drivers and all so we are pretty supportive of what we have going on.
We believe that the organic project that Steven talked about continue to allow us to bring additional volumes on to the system and help enhance the connection with other logistics systems in that so we are very supportive of how we look at the volume growth for TLLP for 2016 in a very difficult environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from [Indiscernible] of Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Please proceed.
Hi [Tee] Hey how are you doing Greg thanks.
Back on marketing I have a higher level question.
I don't think you really addressed this back in December but it seems like there has been a lot of changes in the company's strategy from company operated system to your spec to this MSO model you have for a while now now it seems like you are back to focusing on a more branded storage strategy can you just discuss the thinking on all the shifts in the marketing strategy? Well first of all I would represent it a little bit differently.
I wouldn't call it a lot of shifts.
So let me provide some clarity around how we are thinking about that.
One we truly truly believe that there is incredible value in our integrated business model because of where we operate as a company so that's very important.
Two marketing is a critical part of how we are able to drive high utilization in our refineries in that connection there so then you look at our portfolio of marketing channels then you can call them whether they be company owned and operated or a wholesale or a dealer channel and that's so that’s kind of always been our push has been to be able to grow that integration in marketing.
So that's very important.
Then the second thing is overtime we’d optimize that channel mix and part of that has been like take what was company operated in go to this multi setup operator which basically allow someone else just to operate the stations but the financial drivers in that aren't significantly different as if we were to operate them ourselves.
I think that's an important point.
And then being able to go out and strengthen our portfolio of marketing channels by one the acquisition of the ARCO brand was a significant enhancement to our marketing portfolio.
So it gives us that dealer channel in there.
We did acquire some ARCO stations last year that fits in with our portfolio but that's an important part of it.
Our company owned but multi-side operator model is a part of that and then growing the wholesale channel is a part of that.
So I don't think that we are continuing to strengthen the portfolio and our plan that we laid out going forward is that by each region we want to be at least fully integrated with refining and some regions more integrated and be net buyers in the market and have a very good portfolio which would be different by regions that allows the portfolio around each reason to be driven by both return on invested capital on the profitability of the channel and then on the kind of the rate-ability as it impacts refining.
So long winded answer to your question but that's how we look at it.
Okay.
Yes appreciate that.
So on any refining M&amp;A maybe looking at how important is it to have also integrated retail system in any sort of opportunity maybe looking at.
As the company looks at opportunities to acquire assets that fit in with our business be we believe our business model is a key driver of what we want to be able to do so having the ability to have marketing integrated with it is an important part of it.
It doesn't necessarily mean it has to be there today but it has to be in a market where we can drive integrated value overtime just like we have into Tesoro.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then I think I know the answer to this question but do you believe you are receiving fair value from marketing in your stock price and if not what are your thoughts on realizing those value input? You can always look at some of the parts in that and come up with different answers I we are very confident that with the plans that we are working on and are implementing around marketing there is very good potential to grow the value of the marketing business to the company.
That we are very confident and and then how that's reflected in value overtime is something we will have – we will see how that determines as we are able to demonstrate success with our plan over the next two or three years like we laid out.
We’re -- as you recall we said in December that based upon our normalized environment of around 650 for marketing our intentions are to get that to a $1 billion by 2018.
What has been off of the business that under consideration potentially down the road? We look at everything – we have to look at everything that doesn't fit our business model.
Our business model is to be very integrated but we also recognize it as we manage the big capital needs of the company that we need to take a very holistic and a very broad approach about what is the best most cost effective way to supply capital to the company and redeploy that capital to get good returns on the business.
So we will look at all different possibilities but it’s spinning off the marketing business in our view isn't something that is attractive from a value of creation standpoint.
Okay.
Thanks.
That was great.
Appreciate it.
Thank you [Tee] Your next question comes from Faisal Khan from Citigroup.
Please proceed.
Good morning Faisal.
Good morning Greg.
Morning.
Just a couple of questions just maybe one of accounting questions.
The win expense you guys talked about in the release the $3 million or $0.15.
I also thought that the value sort of offset by what you made in the marketing business off the rent.
So I think if you could give us a little more clarity around why that was expense over the quarter versus netted out against marketing and refining.
So our approach on rents is to stay balanced with based upon what the requirements are and that expense reflects when the EPA made the changes for 2000 and the change for 2014 excuse me and 2015 we didn't have our position fully covered because we stayed balanced.
And so once they made the change which increased the requirement for 2014 and 2015 we went into to then what we accrued for that expense to cover the rents to beat our obligations for 2014 and 2015 which is different than your question about how they pricing the market.
That is just the -- our approach was to be balanced on rents and we were not balanced once the government released their final estimate at the end of November and that accounts for that $30 million that Steven referenced is the accounting to accrue for that liability.
Okay and just the last -- [Indiscernible] are you guys balanced I mean can you ratchet up blending and ratchet it down blending depending upon what your -- the requirements are at this… Well we don't ratchet it down because we have to we meet all the requirements we don't ratchet the blending down but our system is positioned because of the high integration that we have that we blend and we are to the generator of fair number of rents in our system.
Yes that’s how that works.
But you balance it on that and that longer short or you are balanced one for one based on what the requirement is.
We are probably slightly short because we don't sell a 100% of our gasoline into the market into the where we can blend and it depends on how much we export.
Okay.
And so the cost for the RIN still shows up in refining and the benefit of the RIN shows up in marketing -- I’d sort of get that straight is that still correct? Yes the refining is the obligated party in our company to pay for the RIN value and marketing is the generator of the RINS.
Okay.
Okay.
Understood.
And then the asset impairment you took in the quarter relate to a crude oil asset which asset was that that you had taken impairment on? In the quarter we had been working on two pipeline projects one was the Uinta pipeline and the second one was the Trans-Foreland pipeline which was the pipeline up in Cook Inlet that was going to allow us to connect Cook Inlet production directly to our refinery and avoid shipping and those when the crude price environment started to decline we had that engineering work kind of sitting on the shelf and we have to be able to go in and say is there a reasonable expectation that we will be able to start those projects up again in a relatively short period of time and the answer was no.
So we rode off the engineering work that was attributable to just those two projects.
Okay makes sense.
And last question from me.
I mean with the sort of -- you guys have talked about how the differential lower differential that sort of narrow differential that impacted capture.
How do you change your purchasing patterns for crude oil are you -- would you say you are taking more imported crude today than lower 48 compared to few quarters ago or is it roughly the same balance? We have been taking in more foreign crude into our system over the last several bit [ph] as the differentials have justified doing that so.
And we do that all the time [Indiscernible] it's not unusual.
I mean we do it overtime depending on how we need to balance our system and respond to it so but we are taking in more foreign crude today.
Is there any way to quantify that what that in terms of percentage in terms? No we don't that's kind of commercially sensitive information.
Okay.
Got it.
I had to try.
Thanks I appreciate the time.
Thank you Faisal.
Your next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Sorry there are two quick follow-up.
One Steven do you have a rough percentage on TLLP the take or pay contract on your overall customer how many of them or what percentages are below the investment grade kind of the party? I think that let me answer that question Paul.
We have that I think in a -- we don't have it with us here this morning but we do have that available in our prior TLLP public information that we provided out.
So Sam or someone can work with you and give you that information.
So it is available we don’t have it with us this morning.
Okay.
That would be great.
And Greg a second question maybe a little bit more strategic and longer term.
You guys have done phenomenally over the last several years and with the increasing concern from the market on the macro outlook not so much seen in U.S.
but also in overseas weakness in the economy and all that.
Does it make sense at this point given there are still very strong cash flow to allocate part of your free cash flow maybe 20% or so to put it into your balance sheet to further strengthen your already strong balance sheet.
I mean for two for one as an insurance policy in case if the uncertainty turned out to be real or that if it doesn't then at some point that if we do get into a down turn you will be in an excellent position to take opportunity of any investment opportunity that say corresponding the percentage.
So I was just curious if that something that even remotely that you guys are thinking along those lines? It's an excellent question Paul.
We absolutely I think it goes back to our point about how we look at managing the cash flow with the company and our view is to be very focused on looking at different scenarios that happen overtime and under those scenarios what’s the impact to the company and then how should we be spending the cash with the company.
So the answer is that we look at that all of the time and are very focused on how we spend the money of the company and I mean we’ve worked hard actually like you said to create the balance sheet that we have today.
I mean we’ve worked really hard to get that to a pretty low level.
We typically on it to -- so on a non-consolidated basis at the end of the year we were kind of almost debt free when you look at our cash of a billion and debt of 1.2 billion.
And then to sort of logistics we believe can stand on its own and has because of a good customer base and that we’ll be able to able to meet all of its requirement but the answer to your question is yes we are very focused on different market environments and how we want to be positioned for those environments which may cause us to do things differently.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Hey last but not least good morning gentlemen.
Hey Roger.
Real quick I just wanted to hit you on the M&amp;A front and not necessarily just the refining side but lot of stress and strains throughout the MLP sector and I am wondering you mentioned the drop down potentially a limitation for you given market conditions.
Can you do acquisitions as you have been doing and maybe even a little more aggressively given that the industry overall the sector overall is somewhat capital constraint here? I think if you look at our approach is that we have to be very kind of judicious in the type of opportunities that we want to pursue.
That they need to fit in they need to be high quality businesses that have that are -- that fit in with the way that we operate the business and I think for example at the beginning of January we closed on this system up in North Dakota that fits in extremely well to our business.
We believe that the value that we’ll create with that is very very attractive and we need to continue to do follow the same approach on other assets and that.
So we are Steven I think Steven's point around being able to fund the drop downs in that basically said that we are going to go in and look for those opportunities in a markets that allows us to go to the market for both debt and equity to fund that and it won’t be any different from any type of logistics acquisition we have the added benefit is that we can do those sort of like we recently done on two of them that are drop downs for 2016.
Right and I was just trying to think how do you weigh acquisitions? What is the sort of internal calculation that you think about between say maybe an accelerated share repurchase situation versus the opportunistic acquisition? Yes the value we have to look at the acquisitions and make sure that the value contribution gives the return that meets our objectives relative to other uses of capital that's it's no more complicated than that really.
But I think what the important part there is is that because of the environment that we are in is everyone has stated is you have to be very focused on where that revenue comes from those different assets so that you have a strong business in a weak environment.
Right.
Okay.
That's it from me thank you.
Thank you Roger.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.