Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Richard and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations at Time Warner.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other reaffirming our 2013 business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
And second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Thank you and I'll turn the call over to Jeff? Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had another great quarter and we're on track for another very successful year.
In the third quarter we grew adjusted operating income 8% adjusted earnings per share increased 20% and we returned over $1.3 billion to our stockholders through buybacks and our dividend.
So it was a very strong quarter from a financial perspective.
And just as important we continue to perform at the top of our game operationally and to lay the foundation for continued growth.
For example at Turner we're seeing a significant payoff from the investments we've been making to bolster and refresh our program.
That was evident in advertising revenue which was up double-digits again this quarter and it was evident in ratings where TBS was the #2 cable network in prime across adults 18 to 34 and 18 to 49 in the quarter.
The ongoing strength of the Big Bang Theory is a big part of that success both in drawing audiences and as a launching pad for original programming.
TBS recently renewed 3 of its originals Sullivan &amp; Son Men at Work and Deal With It for additional seasons.
And in the fourth quarter TBS is continuing to build out its lineup of original series with the launch of 3 new shows including a show called Ground Floor.
That's a comedy from Warner's.
TBS investment in Major League Baseball is also paying dividends.
The National League Championship Series grew prime time viewers by 14% over 2011 which is the last time it aired on TBS.
TNT has also continued to benefit from investments in programming finishing the quarter as the #2 network on cable among adults 25 to 54 in total day.
Its growing slate of hit originals included 4 of the top 10 scripted shows on cable this quarter: Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes Falling Skies and Perception.
Over the next month TNT will bring back Major Crimes and Boston's Finest and it will premiere 2 new shows: Marshall Law: Texas which is an unscripted show from Jerry Bruckheimer as well as the highly anticipated miniseries Mob City from Frank Darabont.
Last week the NBA also kicked off its regular season on TNT.
That marks its 30th year with Turner.
The season-opener between the Miami Heat and Chicago Bulls was the second highest-rated opening night in TNT history and Thursday night's doubleheader grew viewership by 14% over last season's first Thursday night telecast.
We're also continuing to make gains at CNN.
This quarter CNN grew total day ratings in its key demo by 15% while its 2 principal competitors showed year-over-year declines.
And it finished ahead of MSNBC in both total viewers and adults 25 to 54 for the second straight quarter.
Well there's still lots of work to be done but CNN is showing real progress particularly in revamped programming blocks like the morning show where New Day drove viewership up almost 30% over the year-ago quarter.
Adult Swim is having a great year as well.
It just finished the most-watched quarter in its history growing over 20% with adults 18 to 34 in total day.
It was the #1 ad-supported cable network in total day among 18- to 34-year-olds for the 22nd straight time and for the first time it was also #1 in prime time among adults 18 to 34.
Across the board the Turner networks continued to deliver great value to our customers our advertisers and our distributors.
That was evident in our recent affiliate renewal with another top distributor.
During this affiliate renewal cycle we've now signed renewals with 4 of the top 10 U.S.
distributors reinforcing our confidence in Turner's ability to accelerate its domestic subscription revenue growth starting next year.
Turning to HBO.
We're also benefiting from our investments in great programming.
You don't have to take my word for it.
The rest of the industry is saying it for us.
HBO won 27 prime time Emmy Awards this year.
That's the most of any network for the 12th straight year.
That included 11 awards for Behind the Candelabra and 5 for Boardwalk Empire making them the 2 biggest winners this year.
And the distinctiveness and the excellence of HBO's programming is apparent in its subscriber trends which have been very positive both here in the U.S.
and around the world.
Outside the U.S.
HBO is on track for another year of double-digit growth in subscribers.
And on that front we recently acquired the interest in HBO Asia and in HBO South Asia that we did not previously own.
By wholly owning these ventures we think HBO will be able to better capitalize on the growth opportunities in the region.
Let me turn to Warner Bros.
which is hitting on all cylinders.
In television Warner's is once again supplying more shows to the broadcast networks than any other studio.
That includes the top 2 series on television The Big Bang Theory and The Voice which have both seen ratings growth over the last season.
Beyond the broadcast networks we continue to see very strong demand from cable networks SVOD services and international territories for both originals and off-net syndication.
Looking across cable and broadcast Warner Bros.
TV is producing 63 shows this season.
That's up from 55 last season.
And that includes the highest number of returning series in more than 30 years.
In syndication Warner's benefited from the domestic cable sale of The Middle this quarter and added to its pipeline with the sale of Person of Interest which will premiere on cable in 2015.
At the film studio Warner's released 2 sleeper hits in the third quarter The Conjuring and We're the Millers which have grossed over $300 million and $260 million respectively at the global box office.
Warner's followed that up with the release of Gravity which is a phenomenon both in terms of critical acclaim and commercial success.
As most of you know Gravity set an October record for an opening weekend domestically and it's on track to gross over $0.5 billion at the global box office.
Thanks to those titles and other global hits like Man of Steel and The Great Gatsby Warner Bros.
is #1 at the domestic box office so far this year and of course the second installment in The Hobbit franchise will storm into theaters next month.
In September Warner Bros.
also took a major step in securing its franchise pipeline with the announcement of an expanded creative relationship with J.K.
Rowling.
As the centerpiece of that relationship she will write a series of original films that revisit the magical world she created in the Harry Potter novels.
Like the many millions of fans of her great work we're excited to see what new adventures Jo has in store for us.
Before I finish let me take a minute to update you on the timing of the Time Inc.
spin.
Joe Ripp and his team have been in place for a couple of months now and they're making great progress in preparing Time Inc.
to become an independent publicly traded company.
We anticipate making the initial filing of our Form 10 in the next few weeks.
That should put us in a position to complete the spinoff during the second quarter of next year.
As many of you know the separation of Time Inc.
will be the culmination of the process we started over 5 years ago to refocus Time Warner on being a pure-play content company with an emphasis on video and television in particular.
I think you can see the positive impact that focus is having on our results.
At the same time we know that capital allocation could be as important to stockholder returns as operational excellence.
So far this year we've returned almost $4 billion to stockholders through share repurchases and dividends and we remain committed to maintaining an efficient capital structure and to providing direct returns to our stockholders going forward as well.
In closing I'm really pleased with our results so far this year.
We still have a lot of work to do but I'm more confident than ever in our strategic position and our ability to maintain attractive growth and returns for many years to come.
With that I'll turn it over to John for his final earnings call as our Chief Financial &amp; Administrative Officer.
John's leadership has been a key ingredient to the success of Time Warner in recent years and I'm confident that will continue to be the case in his new role as CEO of Turner.
John? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide which is now available on our website.
And starting with our consolidated results.
We had another really great quarter and off of flat revenues adjusted income rose 8% making this our most profitable third quarter ever.
And that was mainly due to solid double-digit growth at the Networks segment and company-wide adjusted operating income margins expanded almost 180 basis points year-over-year and that's the eighth time in the last 9 quarters that margins have expanded year-over-year.
We've been able to do that by staying very very focused on costs and continued cost discipline has been critical to our ability to invest aggressively while also increasing margins and it remains a significant focus for the company.
Adjusted EPS grew 20% in the quarter and that marks the 13th out of the last 16 quarters that adjusted EPS has grown double-digits.
And once again we were able to grow adjusted EPS faster than adjusted operating income and that was helped by a lower effective tax rate as well as our ongoing share repurchase program.
The acceleration in our share repurchases this quarter is evidence of our continued commitment to providing returns to stockholders.
Year-to-date we've returned almost $4 billion and that includes $3 billion in buybacks and $811 million in dividends.
And that's almost 25% more than we returned during the same period in 2012 and it includes $1.2 billion in share repurchases since we last reported earnings.
Our year-to-date operating results have also been really really good with adjusted operating income up 12% and adjusted EPS up 25%.
And that's despite an almost 300 basis-point drag on growth in adjusted operating income from Time Inc.
and the inclusion of foreign exchange movements as well as incremental equity losses associated with the company's nearly 50% investment in CME.
Given the strength in these year-to-date results let me just touch on our outlook for a moment which calls for mid-teens growth and adjusted EPS for the full year 2013 which we reaffirmed this morning.
Just doing the math that implies a fourth quarter adjusted EPS to be about flat relative to last year which is obviously a significant deceleration from the first 9 months of this year.
And that's due largely to decisions that we've made about our programming schedule as well as related marketing spend at the Networks segment.
I'll discuss that more in detail in a few minutes.
Our outlook for the fourth quarter also reflects very difficult comparison to Warner Bros.
continued pressure at Time Inc.
and higher expected equity losses related to CME.
And for the year we now assume about a $0.10 negative impact to adjusted EPS as a result of our equity accounting at CME and that's an obvious disappointment.
But putting this all in perspective we fully expect 2013 to mark the fifth consecutive year of double-digit adjusted EPS growth and it's going to be another record year for the company.
So we feel really good about the underlying trends in virtually all of our businesses and with the momentum we saw in the third quarter we've got even more confidence about our ability to drive further growth in years to come.
So let me now turn to our divisional segment highlights and let me begin with the Networks segment.
Adjusted operating income here in the third quarter was up a very strong 12% and it's been up double-digits through the first 9 months of the year.
Advertising revenues once again grew double-digits and that was largely due as a result of very positive trends at both domestic entertainment as well as our international networks.
Domestic advertising was up high single-digits in the quarter.
And that included double-digit growth at the entertainment networks which included kids and young adults and that was somewhat offset by a slight decline at domestic news.
International advertising increased high-teens despite a several hundred basis-point drag from foreign exchange.
And that reflected very healthy growth across all regions with particular strength in Latin America.
And while it's somewhat difficult to measure we believe both domestic and international advertising trends were helped on a year-over-year basis this year by the absence of the Olympics in the third quarter.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter scatter pricing at the entertainment networks is up double-digits over the upfront and we anticipate high single-digit advertising growth at domestic entertainment including kids.
Domestic news is likely to be down double-digits year-over-year however and that's because of the comparison against the U.S.
presidential election last year as well as ongoing softness in the news advertising marketplace in general.
Similarly we are seeing a sequential deceleration in international advertising growth in the fourth quarter and that is owing partially to difficult comparisons against last year's fourth quarter specifically in Latin America and Europe.
So in total we would expect advertising growth at Turner to be somewhere in the mid single-digits in the fourth quarter when you take into consideration the ups and downs that I just went through.
Moving on subscription revenue growth of 4% in Q3 was consistent with the mid single-digit growth in the first half of the year and was perfectly in line with our expectations.
A stronger U.S.
dollar continues to weigh on growth here in the quarter and we expect that that is going to continue to be the case in the fourth quarter as well.
However we continue to see healthy underlying subscriber dynamics in international territories particularly at Latin America.
And as Jeff just mentioned Turner recently secured an affiliate renewal with an additional top 10 U.S.
distributor.
We've also seen some encouraging subscriber trends at HBO so we remain confident that we're going to see a real acceleration in subscriber revenues beginning in 2014.
Adjusted operating income at the Networks was up 12% in the quarter with margins increasing 220 basis points year-over-year and that's the sixth quarter in a row of margin expansion at this segment.
In addition to Networks segment revenue growth margin expansion was helped by an extremely modest increase in expenses of less than 2% in the quarter and that was largely a result of the timing of programming spend which was down versus last year's third quarter.
Looking at the fourth quarter for a moment we anticipate a pretty big year-over-year ramp in our original programming investment and related marketing spend.
And that's a result of more than an 80% increase in original episodes at Turner as well as an increase in spending on both original series and original films at HBO.
We're also investing at CNN and that's part of a strategic decision to broaden the programming beyond merely breaking news and politics.
Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown and Morgan Spurlock's Inside Man are 2 early efforts in this area and they're among 2 of CNN's highest-rated shows this year.
And their success suggests that there are meaningful opportunities for CNN beyond merely breaking news and politics.
Programming investments such as these will likely put some pressure on CNN's margins in the near-term but they will also open up a new pool of advertisers to CNN and they could position the network for a return to attractive growth over time.
For the fourth quarter there are just a couple of other items to keep in mind here at the Networks segment.
First we anticipate a drop in content revenue as a result of continued soft demand for catalog product and fewer home video releases at HBO.
In addition we recently acquired the remaining interests in HBO Asia and HBO South Asia so we now own 100% of each and will start consolidating for accounting purposes their operating results in the fourth quarter.
This is part of an ongoing effort to accelerate HBO's international growth and that leaves HBO Latin America group as the only significant international HBO joint venture that we do not consolidate.
The consolidation of HBO's properties in Asia will benefit subscription revenue growth but it's actually going to be a slight drag on operating profit in the fourth quarter mostly as a result of seasonality.
But together with HBO Nordic which we started consolidating earlier this year for accounting purposes we expect the negative impact on adjusted operating income to be around $15 million for the fourth quarter.
And obviously these ventures are still in investment phases and we fully anticipate that they're going to pay off and become really attractive investments for us over time.
But taking that all into account we anticipate the network's adjusted operating income will be approximately flat in the fourth quarter of 2013 and that's obviously not a typical quarter for us from a year-over-year growth rate perspective which is why we wanted to share a little bit more detail with you.
Still with 1 quarter left to go we remain absolutely on track for another year of margin expansion and some pretty strong growth in adjusted operating income at the Networks group.
And with the investments we're making in these businesses we're positioning ourselves to grow at very attractive levels for the foreseeable future.
Turning now to Film and TV production at Warner's.
We knew coming into this year that we had very tough comparisons in the second half of the year in both the third and the fourth quarter and in line with our expectations revenue was down 7% and adjusted operating income was down 8% in Q3.
But year-to-date Warner's is having a terrific year and its adjusted operating income is still up double-digits.
Despite the declines in the quarter we're very very pleased with Warner's operating performance.
And as Jeff noted some highlights We're the Millers and The Conjuring were both extremely successful releases at the box office.
On the TV side the third quarter benefited from the domestic cable sale of The Middle and we continue to see very good demand for our product globally.
This is evident in the number of new shows we have on broadcast this season and the strong pricing we're getting when we're selling those shows in international territories.
Across theatrical and TV Warner Home Entertainment revenue declined 9% in the quarter and that was principally due to the timing of SVOD availabilities at the CW which shifted from Q3 to Q4 this year as a result of the later start of its season.
In addition we have seen some softness in the home entertainment sales of our television product as of late including catalog.
For the industry however home entertainment sales fell just slightly in the quarter and they actually remained up for the year.
And electronic sell-through grew more than 50% in the quarter and year-to-date for the industry and we think that's an extremely positive sign for the future of the Home Entertainment business and we're focused on improving the consumer experience in order to further accelerate the shift to digital ownership.
Looking ahead Warner's has very difficult comparisons against last year's fourth quarter which happened to be an all-time record quarter for Warner Bros.
So year-over-year growth may be tough but we expect profits to significantly exceed the third quarter of this year.
And we're off to a great start with the success of Gravity and we'll also benefit from the next Hobbit film.
We'll benefit from the recognition of the CW SVOD revenue and the games release of Batman Arkham Origins.
So it should still be our biggest quarter of the year and among the largest-ever for Warner's in terms of adjusted operating income.
And that's going to put Warner's firmly on track to grow profits this year and potentially have its best year ever.
So we're quite pleased with that.
Moving over to Time Inc.
Advertising revenue was down 2% in the quarter.
Domestic print advertising increased but that was due largely to a shift of an issue of both People and Sports Illustrated into the third quarter from the fourth quarter.
And without this shift domestic print ad revenue would have been up marginally in the quarter but overall advertising would have declined by over 3%.
And that's due to softness in non-magazine as well as international advertising.
Subscription revenues also benefited by more than 200 basis points as a result of the additional issues in the third quarter.
Despite that subscription revenue was down 4% in the quarter and that was principally due to continued softness in newsstand sales.
Looking ahead we expect both advertising and subscription revenues to be negatively affected in the fourth quarter by the shift of the issues that I just mentioned into the third quarter.
In addition the improvement in trends in domestic print advertising that we experienced in the third quarter doesn't seem to be continuing yet in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted operating income was down 8% in Q3 as ongoing cost control efforts weren't enough to offset the revenue declines.
And given the continued revenue pressure that we expect we think adjusted operating income is going to be down in the fourth quarter at Time Inc.
Let me move on and talk for a minute about free cash flow.
2013 is going to shape up to be an absolutely terrific year in terms of free cash flow generation.
Year-to-date we've generated almost $2.9 billion of free cash.
That's up almost 50% versus the same period in 2012 and is almost as much as we generated in all of last year.
And that's mostly due to the strong growth in adjusted operating income as well as an expected improvement in working capital.
Capital expenditures and cash taxes are also lower year-to-date.
The biggest drivers of the change in working capital have been lower payments for certain license programs the timing of sports programming payments and higher reimbursements from prior film co-financings.
The decline in cash taxes was primarily a result of tax law extenders that were cast by Congress in January of this year.
And that's been a positive for us all year.
So with our solid performance year-to-date and with just a few months to go we're fully on track for a really really strong year in 2013 as it relates to free cash flow.
So let me move on and just talk for a minute about the balance sheet and net debt.
We ended the third quarter with a little bit more than $17.5 billion in net debt.
That's up about $570 million from the end of last year and that's mainly due to the roughly almost $3.5 billion of capital returned to shareholders in the first 9 months of the year through dividends and share repurchases.
And that includes an acceleration in our share repurchases in the quarter to almost $1.1 billion.
Consistent with recent years the amount of capital return significantly exceeds the free cash flow we've generated year-to-date.
On a transaction front I do want to highlight that Warner Bros.
entered into a multi-year agreement to co-finance as many as 75 movies with RatPac-Dune Entertainment.
Along with its existing co-financing arrangement with Village Roadshow we think this provides Warner's with very attractive flexibility to manage the risk of its film slate while optimizing its return on investment.
So we feel really good about that and we're pleased with that development.
Balance sheet leverage remained steady at about 2.3x.
That's a little bit below our target of 2.5x and that's despite the acceleration in our share repurchase program that occurred during the quarter.
And that was a result of the continued strong free cash flow generation that I just mentioned a few minutes ago.
So that concludes my remarks.
With that let me turn it back over to Mike and we'll start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Thanks John.
Richard can we please start the Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Richard? [Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Mr.
Ben Swinburne for Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question for either/or both of you on sort of John's move down to Turner.
The business is obviously performing very well but I'd love to hear more about what you think the big opportunities are beyond what we all know about on the affiliate fee side? What are you thinking about changes in programming efficiencies on the cost side some of the momentum at CNN the international opportunity? What are the things that John you and the -- and your team are going to be focused on as you head down to that business? And then on CME just any comments on your plans there and what the carrying value of that asset is now.
There's been a lot of focus on that this week in the news.
Ben it's John.
Listen it's a little early to start talking about my new role at Turner since it doesn't begin until January 1.
So please be sensitive and appreciate to that.
But look I'm really excited.
It is a great opportunity for me to work with great people and great brands.
And look I think we here believe that as the television ecosystem evolves the big brands are going to continue to get stronger and that's going to come as weaker and less developed brands are going to be more and more difficulty in surviving and succeeding.
And so we're playing from an advantaged hand and we're going to be operating 2 of the most profitable networks in the world with TBS and TNT.
They've got huge programming budgets.
We want to attract the very best projects we can.
We want to delight the viewers.
We want to maintain our position right at the very top of the cable networks universe.
We see opportunities frankly in lots of places.
We see them in general entertainment.
I think Adult Swim is a huge opportunity.
I think truTV under the new leadership of Chris Linn who came over from Viacom's MTV you're going to see a completely refreshed lineup of programming sometime in 2014.
It's going to be much better.
I think with CNN there's opportunities.
Just to go back to what I even said in my prepared remarks I think CNN and with the experimentation that Jeff and the leadership team did there with some shows like Anthony Bourdain Morgan Spurlock some of the movies that they've put on that have attracted younger audiences bigger audiences that complemented with the unparalleled news-breaking capabilities is demonstration that it's reinforcing the value to the affiliates and consumers and increasingly we want to reinforce the value to the advertisers.
So I'm really excited.
I'm working with a world-class team and obviously the world-class team up here and we see bright days ahead.
And also you asked about CME? Research Division</strong> Yes.
And as CME has disclosed being a public company we are in discussions about a capital transaction including a potential loan to CME.
We have confidence in the new management.
We think CME has very interesting long-term opportunities.
So we're only going to engage in a transaction there if it's fair for our shareholders.
And certainly it has to be fair to theirs.
So while there's no guarantee we will come to an agreement we are -- we've been and remain very interested in what CME might do.
And yes it's had some difficult performance recently but we think that the market is a very interesting opportunity the markets that they are in.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Michael Nathanson for MoffettNathanson.
I have one for Jeff and one for John.
Jeff let me just ask you about HBO and the Comcast test you guys are running? Over the many years you guys have always said that HBO's real opportunity is the 70 million people who don't pay for HBO.
And you also said that people who watch HBO like to watch a lot of TV.
So given those 2 data points how are you thinking about the test that Comcast is running? And then I have one for John.
You're asking about this new kind of smaller bundle of Internet service with [Audio Gap] video? Is that what you're asking? Right.
Right exactly.
Yes.
Well it's a new offer.
It's fairly targeted.
It's a pretty limited video offering not in the sense of HBO which is a fantastic video and broadband offering.
So it won't probably be attractive for most people but it might be as I think you're asking something that appeals to a segment.
We've always thought that it makes sense and we've done this for 30 years of HBO to try to work with distributors to make packages that make HBO available to every group of basic or wireline-connected subscribers.
So that's an interesting thing for HBO.
It could be an effective way to reach the 8 million or 10 million homes with broadband that don't have multichannel TV.
The only thing we'd add is what -- great we're interested we're supportive.
I think what we've all got to see is whether there's an interest because there's another as you mentioned 60 million or 70 million basic TV subs many of whom would like to have HBO and there may be ways to get -- there are places where the penetration of HBO would naturally be much higher in the basic video households.
And so HBO is working hard with some key distributors on that.
And is that opportunity gated by your affiliate deals? Like do you have to work through new HBO affiliate deals to give you more flexibility? No no no.
No gating at all.
Affiliates can all create all kinds of whatever packages that they really think would be attractive to subscribers whether the subs have basic cable and want a better premium offer or whether they're not video subs and they're broadband subs and they want a video offer that has HBO.
Okay.
Let me just ask John on SVOD.
You flagged the CW timing.
When you look at the year-over-year change in SVOD for you guys do you expect it to be up for the year? And if so what kind of percentage growth are you seeing SVOD this year? Thanks Michael.
Look year-to-date we've booked about $200 million at SVOD revenue.
And last year we had about $350 million.
We already expect because of the CW pushing out into Q4 we already know there's a good chunk of money coming in that will be recognized and booked in Q4 as well.
That plus deals that we see in the pipeline probably mean we'll be comparable year-over-year with a little bit of luck maybe a little bit of upside but probably not a hell of a lot.
But we are -- we continue to be encouraged by the breadth of SVOD providers that we're doing business with.
If you just think about the amounts booked to date 2/3 of that are coming from outside of the U.S.
It's disproportionately TV and Netflix only represents half of overall booked revenues.
So there's a lot of players that are increasingly interested in the SVOD window and we continue to see it as a real opportunity.
So we're confident.
It's going to continue to be a significant revenue stream for us again this year.
It may even grow as I just mentioned.
But I do want to just mention and keep in perspective that it's still a very very small percentage of our overall revenue and even Warner's revenue.
Warner's is a massive scale studio.
It's only around 10% of our TV syndication revenue last year and it's just 3% of our total film and TV revenue.
So it might be more important for some of the other players in this space to make great shows and we sell them for lots of different players and lots of different windows.
And we'll continue to look to how to optimize the control of these assets so that we can maximize their value going forward.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Jeff you talked about the increasing focus on originals at Turner again and I just had a question on the movie side so we can gauge that trend line.
In the third quarter TNT viewership was down a bit.
I think -- it seemed to us that it was from the movie category not the originals those performed well.
So first is that right? And second is the decline in movies due to a secular trend? Was that due to mix of movies? Was there more library or just new movie avails is not as strong? I just want to make sure we're gauging that trend correctly.
All right.
I'll just do the movies first.
There's not a secular trend really in movies.
That passes around depending on which movies that you have on in a given quarter.
In the -- if you're asking about TNT there -- it gets into what avails of our series are on.
We've had very strong performance in our original series on TNT.
I think 4 out of the top 5 and a lot in the third quarter of our series on all cable were on TNT.
So was your question about other parts of the programming or is it...
Was it a cost question Doug or a strategy question? The cost piece is going down and it's going to continue to go down as we move more money and reallocate it over to originals.
Movies will still be an important part of the programming schedule as Jeff said because we got a lot of hours to fill 24/7 and they tend to be a little bit more economic and some movies can still generate large audiences.
But as we've said we've made a strategic decision to back away from some of the real top heater movies and to go to more that you can play with repeat performances on more of an evergreen basis.
But directionally if you think of the 3 buckets of programming between sports originals and acquired.
Sports obviously huge importance remain committed.
We've got long-term deals with almost all of our sports partners.
Originals are going to be going up and they're going to maintain a larger percent of the schedule.
And then on the acquired side emphasizing more the TV series and somewhat deemphasizing movies.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Jeff and John you both mentioned increasing confidence and strong Turner affiliate fee growth next year.
Is that still specifically at the high single-digit level for domestic Turner that you expressed previously? Yes.
I mean for next year we would anticipate it being close to double digits next year.
Domestic affiliate fees at Turner yes same thing no change.
Our next question online comes from Ms.
Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of HBO questions.
I guess historic you mentioned the Emmy wins which were phenomenal.
How do you benefit from that? Is it -- do you think it affects subscriber growth or is it in home video ultimately? Jessica it's a little indirect but really important if you look at it over time.
So if you have recognition not just in Emmy's but also in press reviews it allows you to take breakthrough programming that is not the kind of broad reach in every case traditional ad-supported programming and allow viewers to find it and so you build these hits with subscribers that makes it efficient from a marketing point of view.
It then does a very important thing which is it attracts huge writer director and actor talent that work in films to work in television.
And what you've seen with HBO starting it more than 10 years ago is a very vibrant creative kind of a highway between the film business and the television network business.
And that has enlivened HBO and a lot of its competition.
And what it does it just brings -- because HBO gets first pick at a lot of these things it brings a tremendous range and quality of projects that makes premium TV always more relevant more powerful.
And then to your question that means it supports subscriber bases here and around the world it supports content sales increasingly now in video and broadband.
And so the whole thing just picks up momentum and that's essentially how it works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe moving overseas which has obviously been a focus growth for you guys.
I guess can you just talk a little bit about how much more investment do you think you need to either just grow the business or buy out some partners? And also maybe you could talk a little bit about where the upside -- you see upside in various regions? For example I think you just launched in India.
So any more color outside the U.S.? Yes.
Well the main investments are behind us because we bought as we said the rest of the HBO networks in Europe and Asia and South America.
And we have 1 partner who we've had all along in Latin America and we're happy with that arrangement.
So we don't need a lot of investment on the HBO side.
When -- in turn we're not buying things we're just essentially expanding our programming expanding our activities.
We have launched in a few countries as we referenced in the formal remarks in Scandinavia and the Netherlands.
We launched -- we're launching add-on services in India.
We think that's a good market.
But these things by and large don't take a lot of investment.
They're basic line extensions.
That's on the HBO side.
On the Turner side it's -- our strongest position is in Latin America.
I think everyone knows we made a pretty good acquisition 2 of them actually the Claxson networks in Argentina which are essentially Pan-Latin America basic networks across many genres and then the Chilevision free-to-air network in Chile.
And we're -- we can build on the Turner side in some countries with investments in terms of acquiring networks that may be there.
But that -- it's not something where it's a clear -- put it this way most of our investment essentially is in the operations programming and expansion of what we have not acquisition of other companies.
And I think Jessica if your question was also -- in my remarks where I said that through the acquisition of Asia and South Asia it would put somewhat of a drag on near-term earnings if that's what the investment that you're referring to that is true for fourth quarter.
That coupled with Nordic means that the impact overall to Time Warner this year on an adjusted operating income basis is probably about $25 million $30 million loss.
I would expect that to improve beginning next year.
In other words Asia and South Asia we would expect a crossover breakeven and actually contribute to earnings next year and Nordic will probably be in and around comparable to this year.
So it should get better beginning next year.
We've been saying and we still are we're going to hit $1 billion in adjusted network operating income in the next couple of years.
And we're still on track for that.
That's a tremendous growth ramp for us.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Richard Greenfield from BTIG Research.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Michael Nathanson's question.
While you don't expect many people to take a broadband tier with broadcast as well as HBO if it actually did take off you have a lot of basic cable networks and then obviously that wouldn't be great for your basic cable net distribution.
I'm just wondering from a technical standpoint how big can Comcast or -- forget about Comcast.
How big could any MVPD make a tier like what Comcast has just done before that tier would have to get all of your basic channels? Essentially at what point does the penetration have to hit before all of your big networks like TBS and TNT have to be part of what the consumer offering is? And then just a second a quick question on CW.
How important is the CW long-term to your company? We've got the Tribune which is the #1 CW station group has evolved into more of an entertainment company.
I'm just curious how important wedded you are to that CW 50% stake? Right.
So Rich we're not going to talk about our provisions and our contracts on our package requirements but I mean I know you're asking basically that.
It's really something that we don't have to be concerned about on this near move.
What -- let's just go to the likely facts.
If there's viability and consumer attractiveness which is the premise of your question for people trying to get basically a more focused a more valuable and maybe a less expensive basic cable package our channels are going to be in there by consumer demand in order to make it happen.
I mean we have -- of all the network groups in the United States we have the highest proportion of networks among the top 40.
We also have the highest proportion of our affiliate fees from our biggest networks.
About 85% of our fees come from our top 4.
They're all basically wide reach widely demanded networks.
And so if you're going to have to your question any kind of really substantial take-up of a let's call it a best of cable type of a package our networks will be in there.
If there was some -- if we were wrong about it our contracts would handle that issue.
So I'm not going to go more specific than that on it.
If you go to the CW it's been basically something where if you put the economics together of our show production and the network it's a pretty valuable generator of asset value and income even current income.
So it's a good platform for the company and it's been a significant part of our talent relations to create a working relationship with some of the younger talents that makes a lot of the cutting edge programming that goes not just to the CW but it goes from Warner series production into the 5 broadcast nets and increasingly into the cable networks who are buying more.
And as you know we not only supply TNT TBS truTV we also have some critical shows in a lot of the other cable networks.
So it's all to our mind it's been a very successful venture.
Our next question online comes from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your leverage already being a bit below your target and expectations for continued very strong free cash flow.
What are your priorities when we think about your balance sheet next year and your use of cash going forward? Can we see even a further acceleration to buy back? Yes.
Look thanks Alexia for the question.
Our approach towards our capital structure and capital allocation more broadly has been pretty consistent now for the past 6 years since Jeff has been the CEO.
And it's a balanced approach after fully investing in all of our organic investment projects.
We look at 3 additional ways to provide value.
The first is -- and this is in order of priority.
The first is M&amp;A where we try to look for things on a disciplined way to advantage our existing competitive positions and grow value.
And there over the last 5 to 6 years I think we've only spent about $3 billion in M&amp;A mostly in international cable.
And that's not by design.
That's just based on the attractiveness of the project so you should probably think that there has been somewhat of a limited number of attractive targets that have presented themselves but that may not necessarily hold into the future.
The second is the dividend which we've raised each of the last 4 years double-digits on an annual basis.
And the third is the buyback program which we've been using very opportunistically and frankly we're quite pleased with the results and the allocation of capital there.
And at a long-term target leverage ratio of 2.5x we think that today that optimizes the capital structure and minimizes the weighted average cost of capital and appropriately balances our access to the capital markets at attractive pricing and at the same time retain strategic flexibility.
We'll always continue to evaluate that in terms of the right level but we think 2.5x now still is right.
And yes I mean given the strong free cash flow generation that the company's had it obviously increases our options for use of capital and use of cash.
So...
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on a comment that I think you made earlier about expecting some deceleration in international advertising growth in the fourth quarter.
Is that simply a comp issue that you highlighted or are you also -- are you seeing anything else there? Look let me -- international is up high-teens in the third quarter.
If you didn't have a foreign exchange headwind it would be up above 20%.
And that included double-digit increases at both entertainment and news particularly strong in Latin America.
But we just don't see that kind of year-over-year trend continuing into the fourth quarter.
Some of it is the result of -- that was pretty high ad growth from the third quarter benefiting from our Olympics comps in the third quarter.
The secular dynamics are positive particularly in emerging markets.
And so we feel very good about them on a long-term trajectory.
They're just not going to be as high as that in the fourth quarter.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
John Janedis from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe sticking with the HBO theme you guys talked about the moderation in subscription growth broadly.
Are you seeing any kind of mixed shift at HBO? And what are some of the things you can do to reaccelerate domestic growth away from the renewal cycle you've spoken to? Well I'm not sure what you're talking about in terms of moderating.
HBO's having a great year in domestic subscribers and a very huge year overseas as well.
If you're asking about the mix sometimes our sub-growth depending on the affiliate is weighted towards either Cinemax subs or basically incentive subscribers that are over and above the penetration targets we have in our deals.
What happens with those is they end up creating a subbase that becomes a very strong platform for HBO's partnership with the distributor as they work out wholesale rates and penetration and marketing plans into the next year.
So HBO is doing -- having I guess -- well actually I think it's the strongest year in domestic subs in many years this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So no change in trend? Well the trend in domestic sub-growth is up so the change is an increase.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Michael Morris from Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two topics.
First just back on the investment in HBO internationally.
Can you help us with just the size of that business? Can you share the revenue that's generated by the Asian assets that you acquired? And also if you look at that relative to the size of the Latin America business that you don't currently consolidate how much bigger is Latin America than Asia and how do you think about -- where are you in the potential of being able to have a similar transaction for Latin America? And then I have one follow-up on CETV.
Mike it's John.
I don't have the break out of the international HBO investments in front of me.
We can do that offline.
I mean overall regardless of the accounting HBO is about $1 billion of revenue.
Internationally Latin America is the single-largest asset.
Whether that's 30% or 40% I just don't know off the top of my head.
It's been growing the fastest still.
And as far as the ability to buy out the partner I think we own 89% of HBO Latin America today.
And the reason why we don't consolidate has to do more with certain governance rights as compared to ownership.
So I think in terms of the operational management day-to-day control the HBO management team has been exercising that now for some time and it's one of the reasons why the assets have been performing so well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on CETV it seems that you're expecting about a $0.05 drag in the fourth quarter.
I believe just based on what you've done year-to-date there is that accurate? And then is that based on expectation just for the financial performance of that business going forward? Or is there something -- what I'm trying to figure out is as I look forward whether that includes any sort of incremental loss or cost or whether that's sort of indicative of the run rate of what you're seeing at that business.
I'm not sure what your question means Mike.
I mean we do straight equity accounting on CETV and we recognize 49.9% of their net operations.
So year-to-date through the 9 months it's been about an $0.08 drag this year versus a $0.04 drag last year.
Looking at the fourth quarter based on their public guidance it would be about another $0.02.
So we're anticipating about a total $0.10 drag this year versus $0.04 last year.
So that is what I've mentioned.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $0.02 in the fourth quarter and it's all simply just operating results from the company.
There's nothing else...
Based on the company's public guidance that's correct.
Our last question online comes from Vasily Karasyov from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> My question is on CNN John.
I think a year or 2 ago the conventional wisdom was that no matter what the ratings are doing the network is still a steady contributor to adjusted operating income.
But given that you're mentioning incremental investment in programming there my question is one is the network operating income down year-on-year so far in 2013? And then how should we on the outside be judging the progress at CNN outside of ratings perhaps? Wait.
Can you just -- are you talking about CNN? Research Division</strong> Yes CNN.
Okay.
The ratings are up.
You want me to do the financials and then you go ahead on the strategy? And...
Yes yes.
So look financially we don't break out network by network our financials.
I will tell you directionally CNN's operating income this year is down.
And that's because of proactive decisions that have been made by Jeff Zucker and the new team there to try to invest in the programming in many many day parts and you're seeing the benefits of that show up often in the ratings.
Those are active decisions made by management as opposed to having it done to them.
And going forward we're going to continue to evaluate what the right level of investment is for CNN.
I mean the expectation is going to be on a multi-year basis this thing is going to go back to growth absolutely.
Yes it's not a trend.
Yes.
It's not a sustainable trend.
So let me add it's still early but the moves that we've had and you can see them on air and you can see them in the ratings is that the new leadership in light of the new programming lineup moves are off to a great start the morning shows some of the prime time shows up considerably.
If you look at the breaking news events this year it's been very evident that CNN has been the leader both in ratings and quality.
And at the same time as John had said and I think you just said it again we're broadening the per view of coverage to keep viewers tuning in during slower news cycles to cover some areas of cultural and specific events that are of interest to people of all ages.
That's the kind of thing you'd see with some of our new morning show segments with some of Anthony Bourdain's shows and some other shows we've put on.
We've also added some news analysis with the Crossfire rebirth and we're going to be investing more both in talent and shows to get that done.
So we just think that this is a good time to capitalize really on the position CNN has.
Nobody is saying enough and we should make sure we're not guilty of this.
We're not any of us focusing enough on digital.
Digital is a huge part of the future of news.
CNN is the world leader in digital.
If we are talking about any other programming genre everyone would be all over the digital store.
News they should be even more focused on that.
That's another key focus for CNN.
It's a major area of strength for the company both here against its domestic rivals that leads pretty strongly in online news and globally.
And so that's part of the reason why we're investing.
Thanks Vasily and thanks everybody for joining us today.
As always we're available for any follow-ups.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.