Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Janette and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued 2 press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other updating our 2014 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are 2 items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO; who will be borrowed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session to answer any follow-up questions you may have from our investor event last month.
With that Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
We had another quarter of solid revenue growth and strong growth in adjusted EPS and that puts us on track for another very good year of financial performance in 2014.
But more important we're executing our longer range plans to go after the large and growing global opportunity we see in video content that opportunity and our plans to capitalize on it was a focus of the investor event we held last month.
I'd like to thank all of you who took the time either in person or by videocast to attend.
We were pleased to share our long-range plan and financial targets with you.
Those targets include adjusted EPS of close to $6 a share in 2016 and over $8 a share in 2018 representing a more than doubling of our earnings over the next few years.
We also discussed with you the significant upside opportunities that we believe exist above and beyond those targets.
Those include the new global kids partnership between Turner and Warner Bros and the even greater exploitation of our IP at DC Entertainment and the potential for breakout hits at Turner and a standalone broadband-delivered HBO product we intend to introduce domestically next year.
We've been positioning ourselves to go after that big opportunity in video I mentioned earlier by streamlining our company putting in a new generation of collaborative leaders and executing a strategy that has not only served Time Warner and its shareholders well over the past several years but is also evolving to incorporate new opportunities outside the traditional ecosystem.
And with our scale position and our leading portfolio of brands we think we are the best positioned media company to take advantage of that opportunity.
While evolving our strategy remains focused on 4 key areas: content technology international and efficiency.
And there's a reason that investing in content is at the top of the list because great content is the life blood of our company.
We spent close to $14 billion on content and related marketing expenses last year.
We'll invest even more this year and in the years ahead because of our confidence in our unique ability to monetize those investments.
For example both HBO and Turner had double-digit increases in Subscription revenues during the quarter and that flows directly from having the best story to tell.
You can see further evidence of our commitment to the best storytelling in the 19 Primetime Emmy Awards HBO received the most of any network for the 13th consecutive year with True Detective receiving 5 awards.
And as I've mentioned before True Detective was the most-watched freshman series in HBO history.
And it wasn't the only successful new hit on a service that already boasts its strongest lineup of original shows ever.
Newcomer The Leftovers averaged over 7 million viewers per episode received a lot of critical acclaim and has been renewed for a second season.
Turner is also investing in great original content and you're seeing the results of those investments.
TNT ranked its ad-supported cable's #1 prime time network for the second consecutive quarter.
TNT's series Rizzoli &amp; Isles Major Crimes and The Last Ship comprised 3 of the top 5 original series on ad-supported cable in the third quarter and TBS was the #2 ad-supported cable network in prime time among adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54.
But not to be outdone Adult Swim was once again ad-supported cable's #1 total day network among all its key adult demos.
Turner's recent extension of its 3-decade relationship with the NBA through the 2024 to 25 season is yet another great example of investing in distinctive programming that will serve us well for years to come.
The agreement will further grow our partnership with additional games continued management of NBA's digital assets and new digital rights for Bleacher Report.
Our investment in great storytelling is also paying off at Warners which is the leading producer for broadcast TV for the 11th time out of the past 12 seasons.
This fall the Big Bang Theory and The Voice are once again the #1 scripted and non-scripted shows respectively on all of television.
And we're particularly pleased with 2 new shows Gotham which ranks as broadcast's #2 new show with adults 18 to 49; and The Flash whose premiere drew close to 7 million viewers making it The CW's most-watched telecast ever.
Both those programs are based on IP from our DC Entertainment group and they lead a roster of 5 DC-based shows that we have on broadcast this season.
As Warner announced at our investor event DC is also a big part of our theatrical strategy with 10 DC-based films slated for release between 2016 and 2020.
Warner also unveiled plans for films built around the LEGO franchise and the World of Harry Potter conceived by J.
K.
Rowling.
More imminently we're going to see another terrific example of our franchise products when the final installment in Peter Jackson's Hobbit trilogy Battle of the Five Armies storms theaters in December.
As we're investing in great content it's worth emphasizing our commitment to a strong multichannel ecosystem.
That commitment is clear in the new NBA agreement I just mentioned which represents an investment of more than $10 billion in the kind of must-have content that makes the TV bundle so valuable to consumers and it makes our networks essential within these bundles.
On top of our sports commitment we intend to double our spending on original programming over the next several years.
So in total we expect to grow our annual programming investment at Turner to over $5 billion within the next several years.
Our commitment is also clear in products like CNN Go which we recently launched and is perhaps the most advanced TV Everywhere product yet developed.
Similarly Turner's leading the charge in providing in-season stacking rights to our distributors and consumers when many of our peers have been reticent to do so.
At HBO we're equally committed to working with our distribution partners to grow our mutual business.
Where others have cut back on their investments to drive margins HBO has been investing aggressively in original programming and it's extended its film output deals to maintain the very best selection of recent Hollywood hit.
And HBO GO is the gold standard TV Everywhere product for the industry.
At the same time we can't ignore the growing opportunity outside the ecosystem.
So we'll be investing there as well.
I already mentioned our plans to expand the reach of HBO to consumers who are not currently multichannel subscribers and we'll be working very closely with our current distribution partners in that area.
We think that's a big opportunity.
We are also thrilled with the performance of CNN.com which in September surpassed Yahoo! News to become the most consumed news and information website in the United States as measured by both page views and video starts.
At Warner's we recently created a new division Blue Ribbon Content to focus on short-form digital content.
Its initial lineup consists of both original concepts and DC-based content including an innovative virtual reality experience produced for the Samsung GALAXY Gear VR and Oculus Rift that will take you inside the bat cave.
That's exactly the type of innovative storytelling that will allow Warner Bros.
to remain at the forefront of the industry as consumer viewing habits continue to evolve.
When we talk about pursuing opportunities outside the ecosystem I think there's an important point to keep in mind.
If you look back over the past decade we've seen the introduction of all kinds of new platforms and services for video including iTunes YouTube and SVOD offerings from Hulu Netflix and Amazon.
And what we've seen both outside the system and inside it through services like our own VOD and our own TV Everywhere product is that the more options you give audiences to access video content the greater the consumption.
Rather than merely shifting share from one platform to another we continue to see growth in the video universe.
And that's why we're convinced we can effectively pursue growth in both areas.
Now before I turn it over to Howard I want to say again how confident we are in Time Warner's position.
We're proud of our track record of industry-leading EPS growth and shareholder returns over the past 5-plus years.
We're really just getting started.
The best video content is growing in value and we occupy the perfect position in the value chain to benefit from that.
And so while there are risks we're confident we can mitigate them.
We have an industry-leading collection of must-have networks we have unmatched film and TV production capabilities we have leading global brands and we're investing in the very best programming to capitalize on growth across all distribution platforms both within the traditional ecosystem and outside of it.
All of that gives us great confidence in the financial plan we presented last month in the upside opportunities we discussed and in our ability to continue delivering industry-leading shareholder returns.
And with that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
We're really pleased with our performance so far this year and the progress we're making toward the longer-term targets we discussed with you last month.
While there were a number of moving pieces in the quarter on the whole our results were a little better than we expected and that included a further acceleration and subscription revenue growth at both Turner and HBO.
Before I go to our divisional results I'd like to address the restructuring severance and programming charges and tax matter that we outlined at our investor meeting 3 weeks ago.
We will take over $400 million in restructuring and severance charges in the second half of this year.
About $300 million of that was recognized in the third quarter.
The charges reflect our company-wide focus on efficiency and stem from global reviews of our businesses by the new CEOs at each of our divisions.
We previously discussed with you the importance of constraining non-programming costs and this is a reflection of our commitment to that goal.
We expect to generate annual savings from our restructuring actions of around $450 million over time with much of it coming in 2015.
That will allow us to invest even more in great content and help position us for future growth across the company.
Additionally Turner decided to stop airing certain programming that no longer fit the brand promise of its networks.
As a result Turner incurred a significant programming charge this quarter.
Since some of the programming was licensed from Warner Bros.
the net impact to the company after accounting for intercompany eliminations was $343 million.
More than offsetting these items on an after-tax basis was a $639 million net benefit resulting from tax matters primarily as a result of a federal tax settlement.
Given their nature and size my comments throughout the presentation will largely focus on results excluding these 3 items.
So excluding them our adjusted EPS would have been $0.97 and that benefited from our ongoing share repurchase program.
During the quarter we repurchased $1.6 billion in shares and year-to-date we bought back close to $4.9 billion of our stock.
Combined with paying close to $850 million in dividends that means we have returned over $5.7 billion of capital to shareholders so far this year and that's after investing more than $10 billion in programming production and related marketing.
So we're continuing to invest aggressively in our businesses while providing significant direct returns to shareholders.
This morning we increased our 2014 adjusted EPS guidance to high teens growth which includes an estimated net benefit of around $0.15 from the reversal of tax reserves and the programming restructuring and severance charges in the third and fourth quarters.
So we're firmly on track for our sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth and adjusted EPS.
And I'll touch on that in more detail later in the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll begin at Turner where we continue to see strong subscription revenue growth.
Subscription revenues increased 10% in the quarter an acceleration from the second quarter and that included a pickup in growth at both our domestic and international businesses.
International subscription revenue increased in the low double digits primarily due to positive trends in Latin America.
Domestic subscription revenue growth remains very healthy and was again in the high single digits as Turner continues to benefit from the rate increases associated with its domestic affiliate renewals.
And as we look out over the next several years we expect subscription revenue to remain a key driver of growth at Turner.
Moving on.
Advertising revenue declined just under 2% in line with our expectations coming into the quarter.
Domestic advertising was essentially flat and that included a low single-digit decline in domestic entertainment including young adults which was offset by solid growth at news.
While our original programming at TNT performed well over the summer ratings at our domestic networks have remained a headwind and scatter demand in the quarter remained moderate.
International advertising was down in the quarter partly due to adjustments impacting year-over-year comparability and FX.
Excluding those factors international advertising declined in the mid-single digits and that was largely a result of somewhat lower demand in Latin America following the World Cup.
In the fourth quarter scatter pricing has been pacing up high single to low double digits over the upfront while volume has remained relatively modest.
With that backdrop we anticipate total advertising revenues to be about flat in the quarter and that includes a drag of about 500 basis points as a result of fewer Major League Baseball playoff games the strengthening U.S.
dollar and DISH pulling down certain of our networks.
Without those we would have anticipated a return to growth in the quarter.
Excluding the programming and restructuring charges in each period adjusted operating income would have grown modestly.
That reflects healthy revenue growth and our continued focus on limiting non-programming expenses.
Excluding those charges programming cost increased in the low double digits due to the new MLB deal and the airing of additional original episodes.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect very healthy underlying trends and subscription revenues and have easier comparisons on the programming cost side due to impairments in the year-ago period.
And depending on its length those will be offset either modestly or to a more significant degree by our DISH dispute.
Looking beyond 2014 we anticipate the restructuring efforts this year to result in over $200 million in annual savings at Turner with a majority of those savings starting in 2015.
Those savings will help fund aggressive investments in programming while allowing for sustainable margin expansion.
And combined with what we expect to be accelerating subscription revenue growth in 2016 and beyond we plan to deliver very strong growth and adjusted operating income for the next several years.
Turning now to HBO where we continue to have very good operating momentum.
Subscription revenues increased 10% in the quarter with the consolidation of HBO Asia contributing about 400 basis points to that growth.
As we discussed with you at our Investor Day domestic sub-trends remained very healthy with HBO on track for its best year in almost 2 decades.
And combined with some improvement in the subscriber mix that resulted in a modest acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth in the quarter.
As a reminder we have now fully lapped the consolidation of both HBO Nordic and HBO Asia so subscription revenue growth should return to a more normal level in the fourth quarter.
Content revenues grew 7% and that was driven by increased international licensing revenues and strong home video sales.
Those factors more than offset lower domestic syndication sales.
In the quarter we recognized $48 million of restructuring charges related to the company-wide efforts I discussed at the start of my presentation.
Excluding restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have grown modestly in the quarter.
Programming expense growth included 600 basis points from the consolidation of HBO Asia.
Looking through that programming expenses increased 10% driven by mid-teens growth in original programming as a result of spending on new series including The Leftovers and The Net.
HBO's international operations posted another quarter of solid growth with total revenue including unconsolidated JVs increasing double digits.
And that included growth in both licensing and our networks businesses which continue to benefit from robust sub-growth especially in Latin America.
Looking after the fourth quarter we anticipate continued solid growth in subscription revenues.
At the same time programming expenses should grow in the mid-teens primarily due to the timing of theatrical expenses.
But given the strong year-to-date results and very healthy underlying trends HBO remains on track for another year of solid growth in adjusted OI.
And we think HBO is well-positioned to grow at even more attractive rates for the next several years.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
where we're benefiting from increased global demand for our content and are on track for another very good year despite difficult theatrical comparisons in the third and fourth quarters.
Looking specifically at the third quarter and excluding restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have fallen 6% and that included both the benefit from a patent license and settlement agreement as well as a drag from a onetime VAT catch-up.
Theatrically our lineup was not as strong as the year ago when we released The Conjuring and We’re the Millers and the carryover revenue from Man of Steel but the fourth quarter got off to a great start with Annabelle and we're excited about our upcoming releases which include the international opening of Interstellar this week as well as the final installment of the Hobbit and American Sniper next month.
And longer term we think we have the strongest slate in the history of the company.
So overall we feel really good about the outlook for our theatrical business.
On the TV side demand for our product remains robust with revenues growing high single digits in the quarter.
That included growth in SVOD revenue and increased TV production including the consolidation of Eyeworks.
Across theatrical and TV Home Entertainment revenue was stable in the quarter.
And digital trends remain very positive with electronics sell-through growing over 50%.
Looking at the fourth quarter Warner Bros.
will incur additional restructuring charges of around $100 million.
In addition we face difficult home video and theatrical comparisons.
Recall that last year's fourth quarter set a record for Warner Bros.
as it benefited from the home video releases of Man of Steel Pacific Rim and The Hangover Part III as well as the theatrical release of Gravity.
But if not for the restructuring charges I just noted Warner's would be on track for record year.
And the global demand increasing for the high-quality content that Warner Bros.
specializes in we're confident we can grow the business at very attractive levels for the foreseeable future.
Turning to free cash flow which also remains healthy we generated $2.5 billion in free cash flow year-to-date similar to year-ago levels and that's despite a material increase in cash taxes due principally to the expiration of certain favorable tax legislation.
As you can see on the slide we've broken out the programming restructuring and severance charges incurred in the third quarter which had a significant impact on adjusted operating income.
It's worth noting that the majority of severance payments related to the restructurings will come in 2015.
Cutting through the noise we're on track for another year of healthy free cash flow generation in 2014 and we expect to continue converting a very high percentage of our earnings into free cash flow in the years to come.
Now on to our balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $19.3 billion of net debt.
That's up over $1 billion versus the end of 2013 and that's primarily due to our commitment to direct shareholder returns.
During the first 9 months we returned $5.3 billion to shareholders including almost $4.5 billion in share repurchases.
And we continue to think our stock is very attractive at these levels.
On the M&amp;A front we've invested about $880 million year-to-date.
A majority of this came in the second quarter as we closed our acquisition of Eyeworks international television operations and completed financing arrangements with CME.
Due to the programming restructuring and severance charges in the third quarter our net leverage ratio was 2.9x as of September 30.
However excluding those charges our net leverage ratio would have been 2.6x.
On that basis we're on track to reach our target net leverage ratio of 2.75x by the end of the year.
And as we said last month we remain committed to maintaining our solid investment-grade credit rating.
Now onto the final slide which shows our 2014 outlook.
This morning we raised our full year 2014 outlook to high teens adjusted EPS growth.
Our outlook includes a net benefit of approximately $0.15 from the tax matters and programming restructurings and severance charges I noted earlier.
One item that could impact our result is our current carriage dispute with DISH.
And as I noted before DISH has unilaterally dropped a number of our networks.
Furthermore our contracts for TNT and TBS expire soon.
We're working hard to reach a new agreement in the near future but if we're not able to our adjusted EPS would likely come in toward the lower end of the range I just provided.
Excluding the $0.15 net benefit I just mentioned and any potential impact from DISH we would still be tracking ahead of the outlook we have provided in August.
And that's despite the significant 4Q programming investments at HBO and difficult 4Q comparisons at Warner Bros.
So we're pleased with our performance this year and the investments we're making in high-quality video content put us in a great position to deliver the double-digit CAGR and adjusted OI and over $8 in adjusted EPS by 2018 that we discussed with you last month.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Janette if we could go ahead and open up the line? [Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Morris of Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on programming at Turner.
First with respect to the size of the content write-off it's pretty substantial relative to let's say the cost of an individual episode of programming.
Can you provide more color on what was included in the write-off and how it affects sort of your investment on programming going forward? And then second of all you recently announced the hiring of Kevin Reilly as the Head of TBS and TNT.
Can you talk a bit about why he's the right person and how that affects the investment there? I'll take that.
Mike I think as you may all remember when we started this we've got all the CEOs here.
So John's here and I think it's probably better for you to start John.
All right thanks.
Good morning Mike.
Thanks for the question.
Listen and I think Howard said this in his proactive remarks that the charge that we took was a portfolio of programming that no longer fits the brand direction that we want to take each of TNT and TBS in.
But the biggest components included The Mentalist and a number of shows that we had historically with the relationship with Tyler Perry including House of Pain.
And that is going to allow us to better program the network with series that better fit the evolving brands.
In terms of the impact that it's going to have on overall investment levels going forward as I said at the recent analyst meeting our intention and expectation is to contain overall programming costs at Turner to be no more than high single digits over several years on an annual basis.
And we have every confidence that we can do it.
But I want to make sure I want to pause for a second because I don't want people to believe that acquired programming no longer has a place on our networks.
I think the only change in our view of acquired is that we need to be more selective which is similar to our strategy with originals by the way as we'll look to get -- to become more distinctive in our programming and over time targeting a younger audience particularly on TNT.
But acquired can still play an important role for the foreseeable future and all you need to look at is the big big hits like Big Bang Theory which is going to have a place in prime time for the foreseeable future.
So that answers that question and thank you for mentioning the hiring of Kevin which we announced yesterday.
And speaking on behalf of David Levy who is the Direct Hiring Manager and myself we couldn't be more thrilled that Kevin's going to be coming over to join us here at Turner.
I mean he is absolutely one of the most respected innovative and influential executives in this industry and he's always been a champion of quality television who does not shy away from taking bold programming risks.
And we've carved out and created a new role for him because of his unique tastes experience and his creative relationships.
He'll have the title Chief Creative Officer which will allow him to work with and lead the Turner creative executives and finding new ways to reach viewers with programming that plays to the strength of our various brands and platforms.
So really really thrilled.
Yes John.
Michael it's Richard.
I'll just punctuate that.
I mean Kevin enjoys a truly stellar reputation in Hollywood.
And my emails yesterday were plentiful with people from the community just saying bravo to our cousins at Turner's for making that hire.
I think it's a very smart creative choice and he's going to do great things there.
Warner Bros.
has -- this is Kevin.
Warner Bros.
has a fantastic relationship with Kevin that goes back a long way.
And as Richard said the creative community response has been tremendous regarding this hire.
So we're really excited about it.
Mike this is Howard.
I just wanted to come back.
Mike this is Howard.
I just wanted to come back and just reiterate the fact that on a net basis the programming impairment is $343 million which is consistent with what I outlined at the Investor Day.
The decision was a jump point.
It was really about making the most in programming so that we could move faster.
We don't expect to have any significant savings over the term or the long range plan on that.
And our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's great that you have the division guys on so we'll take advantage of that.
One for John and one for Richard.
So on the DISH dispute which you guys brought up a few times I'm just wondering you said it might affect Q4 -- or Howard said it might affect Q4 earnings.
But John how do you -- how should we think about this over the longer term given the guidance you've given for affiliate fee growth of low double digits? And for Richard I just want to ask about the broadband opportunity which Jeff just highlighted.
Do you see that -- and you've obviously discussed it at the Analyst Day but do you see the standalone broadband opportunity as a bigger potential opportunity for HBO than simply driving performance from the poorer-performing pay-TV operators to like the mid or upper level? Like which one is the bigger opportunity? Thanks Jessica it's John.
I'll start.
Listen I mean ordinarily we wouldn't be in the practice of commenting publicly as it relates to what's a private business dispute.
But given Charlie Ergen's comments on the earnings call yesterday I just want to provide a little bit of context from our perspective.
And it think it's fair to say that we disagree with virtually everything he said as it related to the importance of our product as it related to his platform.
We were both disappointed in the very antagonistic and aggressive nature of his comments yesterday and we're disappointed particularly given the fact that DISH had previously agreed to our network's rates and our carriage proposals weeks ago.
And we were working hard to get a deal done.
We were supportive in fact unclear now of additional TT efforts and we have found common ground on virtually all of the major issues there.
So while there clearly were more deal points to get done they are not of the type of nature that would result in networks going dark.
And I think all of us sitting around the table have been in this industry a long time so we have a pretty good sense of what those are.
So to us it's unclear exactly what the dispute with DISH is and we were told by them that we were taken down because we wouldn't move an expiration date later into the year.
What's kind of interesting about that is it was an expiration date for networks that aren't even up yet.
And it's important to note that other top five U.S.
distributors have signed up for the deal that DISH has now walked away from.
And look we're confident in our brands.
The value of the Turner news entertainment kids and young adult brands and the content that we have are reflected in the leadership positions that we have across the media landscape.
And we have 2 of the top 5 3 of the top 10 and 5 of the top 30 cable networks.
We're the only programming group that has that.
And CNN is #2 in ratings #1 in reach and it has the most innovative TV everywhere product available on the market.
So we honestly have no idea what DISH was talking about yesterday.
Having said all of that Turner's had a long-term relationship with DISH that has been to a mutual benefit.
And that's one of the reasons that we agree to multiple calendar extensions during this lengthy negotiation process and we worked diligently and in good faith to try to address what those issues are.
In fact we even stayed at the table after DISH removed our networks from their service.
And look we believe in our brands and we're willing to work constructively to get a deal done in the near term.
So Jessica just to get your point about the impact on guidance we still expect we'll reach a deal.
So we don't expect this is going to impact our long-term guidance.
Jessica yes Richard -- Jessica I'm going to answer your broadband-only question.
So look first of all as I think I said on Investor this is not binary it is not one of the others it's multilateral.
We're going to go first after the enormous opportunity that I spoke about in 70 million homes that do not get HBO in the MVPD universe.
We think as I've told you there's 10 to 15 million persuadable homes.
We want to work with our partners to attack that market aggressively.
And in the broadband-only universe we think there's 4 million to 5 million also working with our partners.
So to us this is just net upside everywhere margin upside everywhere.
I talked to all of our distributors about it.
We want to lean in with them early in the new year begin working on the plans for this for 2015.
And I see nothing but upside for us nothing but upside for the consumer nothing but upside for our distributors.
And our next question comes from John Janedis of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> John you mentioned syndication earlier.
As content has become available in more platforms there is a view in the market that it's weighing on syndication broadly.
So can you tell us what you're seeing globally in syndication and to what extent you're seeing either inflation or deflation in license fees? This is Kevin from Warner Bros.
I think that what we're continuing to see is on a global basis demand for our product and the pricing for our product continues to go up.
And as John said the programming that -- the hit programming that continues to kind of dominate the airwaves today is the programming that you're seeing the most pricing power on.
And so -- but international markets are very strong right now and we continue to -- we expect to continue to see that in the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just going back John to this question maybe.
Just going forward it seems like distributors are appreciatingly focusing on ratings when negotiating fees.
And so how relevant are ratings in your view? And is this argument missing viewers and platforms that aren't -- but will be measured someday? Yes.
I mean look and I noticed from my experience on this side being a programmer I also know from my experience having worked at Time Warner Cable for a number of years.
Ratings are one measurement but there is not a particularly strong correlation between ratings and affiliate fees because what's more important than ratings is the brand affinity and the passion engagement that subscribers have with particular branded environments and networks.
And so you can have a network that has lower ratings but has a subset of fans like Turner Classic Movies for example that are incredibly passionate about a particular network.
Those networks can command a premium and affiliate fees because the distributors value that relationship with the consumer.
And so I don't want to say that ratings are unimportant because obviously higher-rated networks mean that viewers are spending more and more time with them.
But it's only one of a number of a variety of factors that determines what clears the affiliate fee price in the marketplace.
I just want to add the classic example of that is sports.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about sort of moving into new areas and at the same time supporting the ecosystem.
And you highlighted the NBA Jeff.
There's a lot out there about the NBA looking to go over the top.
Adam Silver did an interview talking about an urgency to do that soon.
And I think ESPN has at least hinted at the idea of doing something as well.
How does NBA ESPN over-the-top fit into your worldview? And how does Turner participate or not participate in that opportunity? I'm going to give it to John to ask him about Turner.
Yes thanks.
To a large extent as you add more opportunities for consumers to see things on demand that's probably a good thing to strengthen their attachment and engagement with the brands.
And most of their -- most of the consumers' increasing excitement with engagement time spent every day goes across a number of channels that they watch on demand on their television and then it they want to leave the house they can watch it on a mobile device.
And so I think what you're seeing here is really an increase in the value of having these networks and having a lot of them on on demand basis.
But I'll give -- John you can talk about the specifics of the...
Thanks Jeff.
I mean further to what Jeff just said listen we're supportive of the relationship between the NBA and ESPN as it relates to this OTT package but I do think it's very important to understand what it is and what it is not.
The OTT package is very targeted.
It's a mobile product with select out-of-market games.
It won't include any of the games that air on our networks.
Those are exclusive to us and include our own digital rights with respect to those and it wont's include any playoff games.
So it doesn't impact the package that we have with the NBA at all.
We still have the same package of exclusive Thursday night games.
In fact we got 12 additional games.
And as I mentioned we maintain all streaming rights there.
We already partner with the NBA on an OTT call offering.
It's called NBA League Pass and we're continuing to manage the NBA's digital properties and we partner on NBA TV.
And lastly I would mention we also got increased digital rights for Bleacher Report which is the #2 sports destination now in the U.S.
So there were plenty of digital rights that were spread around and we think it's good for the NBA.
We think they were very smart the way that we're approaching that they've approached it.
And I think it's going to work out well for all 3 parties us ESPN and the NBA.
Research Division</strong> And can I ask Kevin a follow-up along the same lines around the ecosystem with Gotham? Kevin can you talk about that deal why that was the right deal for Warner with Netflix? You mentioned full seasons stacking and Fox does not have stacking rights for that show.
So it went in a different direction.
Why was that the right path for Warner and Time Warner on that property? It was the right deal for that particular show at that moment in time.
I think that as we look more broadly at stacking we believe that stacking rights are very much important to be part of the overall TV Everywhere experience and that you can make that argument that by allowing cable networks and broadcast networks to stack our program it actually increases the value of the long-term value of the content.
It increases the amount of sampling of a show.
If you look at something like Gotham and if you add all the viewing and I think Fox just reported this if you take out live plus same day you add the 7-day DVR you add the days 4 plus you're now looking at a P2-plus number of 22 million viewers.
That kind of viewing when cum'd like that that would put in a top 10 show 10 years ago.
So I think we need to look at these kinds of things differently.
We need to obviously figure out ways to monetize that audience more effectively but it does kind of show the value of product and the fact that viewing is happening in many different ways today and we just have to catch up in the way we measure it and we monetize it.
It's John.
We couldn't agree more.
I mean the same thing on Last Ship where half of the viewing was non-live.
Falling Skies the same thing; Legends significant increase.
All of these shows well Last Ship and Falling Skies were stacked and we saw significant catch-up viewing deep into the season.
So this -- we think the industry who is not granting stacking is looking at this the wrong way.
This is about creating hits and the ability for consumers to find shows and to make it convenient for them increases their discovery and their willingness to view shows.
So at Turner we have a deal with Warner's.
And really really couldn't be more pleased with Kevin's support and team's support of Warner's.
We're going to be looking to stack all of our originals.
Richard talk about -- I mean HBO basically stacks our originals.
So it's selling something.
But I've said this before.
If you just take Thrones or True Detective or as an example on Sunday night itself we're doing probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 25% or 30% viewing.
And then on demand it is doing another 60%.
And then you have HBO GO.
So even a show as popular as Thrones or True Detective is doing 75% 80% if it's viewing on non-premiere nights.
And for us obviously making show available when the consumer wants and how they want it is how we cume up the numbers as high as 19.5 million for Thrones 13 million for True Detective.
John Oliver or Bill Maher cuming over 4 million same viewing patterns.
So we -- this is more evidence that the TV Everywhere basically including all networks on demand and having it available on your television is what the ecosystem should do it's what cable and telcos should offer it's what networks should grant for their current year seasons.
You can see it.
It's as clear as a 5-lane highway.
So let's get everybody out there on how to get it done.
And our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide a bit more color on the upside in HBO subscriber growth domestically in the quarter? I guess was it driven by more favorable terms with some of your distributors more aggressive marketing? I guess any color behind that? And if we should expect it to continue to the fourth quarter? Yes I think we have better performing distributors in Time Warner Cable and some of our others.
And as I made clear you have a vast disparity and penetration as low as 14 and as high as 42.
So we'll work very hard on this year getting some of our lower penetrating distributors up.
That happened.
We've seen nothing but a real upside on that going forward.
And again as I've talked about the data that makes clear how many persuadable homes there are out there we are now taking all of that inside our distributors breaking it down for them and making clear how much upside opportunity is available to them.
The response as I said on Investor Day has been extremely enthusiastic.
So we believe we're going to see all of those distributors leaning into that possibility going forward.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up if I can on Turner.
Can you talk about the difference that you're seeing particularly now with a bit more volatility in the ad market between the demand and maybe pricing for sports programming versus general entertainment? Sure.
Right now we're doing really really well with the NBA.
And so relative to general entertainment which is probably a better proxy for the broader market I'd say sports is stronger.
And just to repeat what Howard said we're doing fine in terms of pricing in the scatter market.
There just isn't the type of volume that we would like in an ideal world but sports for us is working quite well.
Research Division</strong> Would you say the volume deteriorated in October or is it about the same? I didn't hear the question.
No there hasn't been a demonstrable trends line difference in volume.
And our next question comes from Michael Nathanson of Nathanson.
I have one for John and Jeff one for Kevin which I want to take if you can.
In answering the DISH question you did bring up that personal streaming service and you're positive about it.
So can you walk us through the parameters of that deal? And what gives you comfort that signing up with a personal streaming service won't impact the 90 million homes that are paying for a bigger bundle? Well yes I mean I mentioned it.
I mean look we don't have a deal with them.
So we -- and I think we've been fairly consistent Michael in our view of OTT and -- or what were called virtual MVPDs.
What's important for us and what would make us support a service like this would be to get the networks that are leading networks into those packages.
And I'll go back to what I said at the Analyst Day we've got virtually all of our economics in our top 4 or 5 networks.
And we don't have that many networks that are niche that are small that don't much in terms of ratings that aren't that important.
And so we would anticipate as over time if bundles get smaller we would be able to protect and hopefully even expand as these services will appeal to a greater level of audience our overall appeal and overall number of consumers that we can get in front of.
So John are there conditions on the size of the number of networks in that streaming bundle that you had to work with? That's a question for DISH not for us.
Okay.
And let me ask one for Kevin.
Kevin when answering the stacking rights questions John and Richard both said how important stacking rights are to their in the networks.
And a lot of times they mentioned their original content that they've stacked.
I wonder going forward given the Gotham example do you think your role as independent producer for broadcasters may change because networks want to may -- control more of their stacking rights and own more of those rights themselves? So how do you see that evolving at a broadcast level? I think the trend will be increased rights granted to networks in stacking.
And as John mentioned we reached an agreement between ourselves to grant those rights to Turner.
And I think that as a company we believe that there isn't an impact on long-term rights related to these kinds of stacking.
And I think that therefore you're going to see on a go-forward basis a more consistent grant of rights that is broader.
Then just one quick further thing.
The other thing I just want to mention too is that I mean our goal and expectation at TNT and TBS is we're going to own more of our originals.
And when I say own more that's Turner and Warner's and Warner's being our most important studio partners.
So we are going to make whatever the right decisions are to increase the probability of success for the shows that we air on our network.
And obviously right now you can hear a unified approach that stacking is going to help the shows.
And our next question comes from David Bank of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up I guess for Kevin and Jeff on the stacking right question.
When you look at the value chain then between what you're doing with Turner in selling full stacking rights for those originals and then looking at the monetization outside of the Turner platform frankly like how much more do the Turner nets have to pay for those rights? And do they make them less valuable in the actual deals you're doing now with SVOD distributors? Like is the money more or is it less or is it the same? Look I'm going to start and let's go global here.
You're talking about an evolution of the rights and windows for shows.
And so I think the way to think about it is if the norm becomes that all television networks when you go to whatever network you want to see your show on and you know that you can watch any episode of the current season on demand and you can do it on your television stream you can do it on a broadband-delivered VOD service what we're talking about here is taking television and making it VOD universal.
Therefore it would not have an effect on really the discrete change and the price of the show.
And as Kevin said earlier the -- when you do that and you make the show easier to get attached and engaged and follow you have actually a more valuable show in subsequent seasons and on later windows.
So that's basically what's going to happen in the industry.
If you focus too much on any particular deal in the transition period of going from rolling 5 to a full season I think you'd be missing where this is going.
The net effect of the whole thing is to have TV networks become more valuable and more powerful to have the value of any hit show become more valuable and to then create basically evolution of the windows where anything in a current season you know it's on demand doesn't matter what network you're watching.
That's how we see the change in the definition of a television network.
You can watch once a day.
That works exactly like that it's called Home Box Office.
So just watch HBO.
It's been doing that for years.
You can -- Showtime now does it too.
You can see exactly how powerful that is.
It makes all the networks more valuable and it makes all the shows more valuable.
Yes.
And I think the only thing I would add is the key thing is the consistency.
But you don't have to guess whether all those shows are going to be stacked on HBO or not and I think we've got to get to a place where there's more consistency on the rights granted.
And our last question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> A question for Richard and then maybe a follow-up for Howard.
On the Comcast-NBCUniversal calls Steve Burke said about the HBO TT product.
He said "I think it's going to challenging for HBO to go and try and attract new customers into this ecosystem without cannibalizing existing customers." I think you've been clear Richard that you don't think that will happen.
Presumably you'll be working with your traditional MVPD partners.
I guess the question is if you have enough success with your partners on Internet Plus-type offerings as you described would you revisit your decision to roll out a standalone OTT product after that sequencing? The answer to the last question is no.
Let me go to the first which is Steve.
Steve called me personally to give some context to the comment number one and I think it was somewhat overreported if you will.
Neil called subsequently and I spoke to him and I think the real point is the one that Neil made in The Wall Street Journal with namely that HBO and Comcast have been terrific partners.
He expects us to be terrific partners going forward.
I couldn't echo that more enthusiastically.
So we're going to work very closely with them on our current business.
We're going to look -- work very closely with them growing it not only in their current video business but also on the broadband-only and Internet Plus side.
And if you have any doubt that we're each -- helping each other to grow each other's business just look at the performance and look at 2015 and -- '14 and I think '15 portends even greater growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one quick one for Howard.
You mentioned you continue to track a little bit ahead of the full year earnings guidance that you had provided earlier in the year.
If I flow through the third quarter beat and then the tax benefit it does seem like the fourth quarter comes down a little bit.
You called out Howard a few of those factors programming investments at HBO comps at Warner the DISH dispute and then the advertising expectation at Turner how am I doing on those factors? And then maybe as a way you can sort of rank those in terms of their impact on the 4Q.
Your underlying assumption about us not looking as good if you take those things out is actually not correct.
When I indicated it if you exclude the restructuring and tax and the program impairment we're tracking a little bit better than our prior guidance that we gave in August.
And what was the question in terms of the ranking of ...
Research Division</strong> Well maybe another way to ask it would be specifically on Turner advertising so I think you talked about flat.
Was that where you had expected the fourth quarter Turner ad growth for example going into this part of the year? Or had you expected a growth for the fourth quarter Turner advertising? Anthony there's a lot of puts and takes.
I'm not going to go into the details of evolving individual components of that.
But we are -- but financially we continue to track well as I indicated.
Thanks Anthony and thanks everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please contact me or Michael Senno.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.