Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the fourth quarter and full year and the other providing our 2015 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks for listening in this morning.
2014 was another year of strong financial performance for our company with solid revenue growth and 18% growth in adjusted EPS.
That's our sixth straight year of at least high-teens adjusted EPS growth and it's consistent with our plan to reach close to $6 in adjusted EPS in 2016 and over $8 in 2018.
We also grew free cash flow by 12% to $3.5 billion and we returned more than $6.6 billion to shareholders through buybacks and dividends and as we announced this morning we anticipate another year of very good growth in adjusted EPS in 2015.
We're also committed to building on our strong record of providing direct returns to shareholders which have totaled more than $26 billion since 2008.
You can see evidence of this commitment in the 10% increase in our dividend approved by our Board.
That is also the sixth straight year we have raised the dividend by double digits.
So we expect another great year in 2015 and that is in the context of an industry where like all of you we see the pace of change accelerating.
Consumers' appetite for high-quality video content is increasing globally but we're in the midst of a secular shift to on-demand consumption.
At the same time advertisers' expectations for data analytics and targeting are also increasing.
These changes create new challenges for our industry but we think they are also creating big opportunities for the producers of the very best video content.
In fact we've spent the last several years positioning ourselves to take advantage of these trends.
In 2014 we've completed our transformation into a more focused nimble and collaborative video content company that takes better advantage of our leading brands and our global scale at Warner Bros.
Turner and HBO.
We also finished the transition to a new generation of CEOs at each of our divisions and we continued to invest even more in the very best content.
In 2014 we invested $14.5 billion in programming production and marketing.
That's up about $3 billion compared to just five years earlier and we expect that to grow to around $19 billion a year over the next several years.
That investment is going into increased original programming at HBO and Turner into high-profile sports like the NBA NCAA March madness and major league baseball; and also into the biggest film and TV franchises at Warners.
And those investments will continue to pay dividends in the years to come as the demand for high-quality on-demand video content grows.
We also continue to invest resources in improving the user experience in order to increase the value we're providing to our distribution partners and to consumers of multichannel television.
Last year we launched CNNgo the most advanced multiplatform news product on the market.
We expanded HBO GO to additional platforms including Amazon Fire PS3 and Xbox One and we started to make stacking rights available for some of our biggest hits at Turner.
At the same time we're increasingly investing outside the traditional TV ecosystem to help ensure that consumers can access our great content wherever whenever and on whatever device they choose even if they don't have a conventional multichannel TV subscription.
The most notable example is our HBO OTT service which we're on track to launch later this year.
We think there is a big opportunity for us to reach broadband-only consumers and to reduce the friction of subscribing to HBO for multichannel subs that don't currently have the service.
We look forward to sharing more details about the service closer to launch but HBO's OTT product is only one element of our digital strategy.
At Turner CNN Digital grew both average monthly video streams and mobile uniques by more than 30% in 2014.
And Turner's Bleacher Report averaged 39 million monthly unique visitors becoming the number two digital sports destination in the U.S.
We have carried that momentum into 2015.
All five of Turner's most important networks were included in Dish's Sling TV service making up more than a third of the channels at launch.
CNN and Bleacher Report were two of Snapchat's launch partners for its Discover feature.
And last month Warners announced that it will be launching an SVOD service in Southeast Asia in partnership with SingTel and Sony Pictures Television.
That is another opportunity for Warners to use new distribution platforms to grow its business in Asia where it already has a significant stake in Hollywood VIP.
That is a rapidly-growing SVOD service in China which recently expanded its content offering to include HBO programming.
You will also see us investing in our advertising business by rolling out advanced products that provide advertisers with the analytics and targeting they are coming to expect.
We started that process last year when we began selling based on consumer behavior rather than just the traditional age and gender demographics.
This year we're going to take that one step further.
For the first time we will have one joint upfront for all of our networks and we'll provide our best partners the ability to buy behavior-based inventory across all of our networks and digital platforms.
We started talking to our partners about this at CES last month and the response has been overwhelmingly positive.
Combining the reach and quality environment of TV with the analytics in targeting digital is the holy-grail for advertisers and if we do that successfully we think we can take share back from digital competitors over time.
So clearly there is a lot of change occurring in our industry but we're more confident than ever in our position.
That confidence stems from our belief that the very best video content is becoming more valuable to both consumers and to our advertising and distribution partners.
We produce more of that great content than anybody which was evident once again in 2014.
It is awards season so let's start there.
We received 13 Academy Award nominations this year including a best picture nomination for American Sniper.
In true Warner Bros.
fashion this film has been both a commercial and a critical success.
After opening in select theaters on Christmas Day it shattered records when it went wide last month including the biggest January opening ever.
Last year we also released the Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies which was the final installment of the epic trilogy by Peter Jackson.
Through last week the movie had brought in well over $900 million at the global box office and that brings the total for The Lord of the Rings franchise to close to $6 billion.
That gives Warners two of the top four global film franchises in history including the biggest ever in Harry Potter.
No one manages film franchises better than Warners and they are at the core of its film strategy going forward.
Warners has laid out the most ambitious slate in its history which starting in 2016 will be built around DC Comics LEGO and the world of Harry Potter.
And we couldn't be more excited and confident in the opportunity it has not only to drive growth at the box office but also to significantly expand its ancillary business.
None of that should overshadow Warners' continued leadership in television production.
Warners has more than 60 series airing for the 2014 to 2015 season including the most primetime series on broadcast of any studio for the 11th time in the past 12 seasons.
This season was particularly notable for Warners mining of the DC library which gave rise to two of this year's bona fide new hits Gotham and The Flash and The Flash is just one of three DC shows on the CW with their presence helping the CW to broaden its audience and grow its ratings this season.
DC is also a major driver of our games business including last year's release of LEGO Batman 3.
That will continue in 2015 with the highly anticipated release of the final installment of the Batman: Arkham trilogy.
Along with the release of Mortal Kombat X and a new mobile game based on Game of Thrones that should propel Warners' give business to a record year in 2015.
Now going back for a moment to the multiplex last week HBO concluded a limited IMAX run for two episodes of its monster hit Game of Thrones.
That is HBO's most-watched series ever.
It was the first television show to ever screen in an IMAX theater and that is a testament to the anticipation for Thrones' upcoming fifth season as well as to HBO's creative excellence.
Last year HBO received 19 Primetime Emmys including five for True Detective its most-watched freshman series ever and HBO's content superiority translated into close to 3 million additional domestic subscribers that is its highest growth in domestic subs in over three decades.
In 2015 HBO plans to raise its game again with returning hits like True Detective Veep Silicon Valley The Leftovers and Last Week Tonight with John Oliver.
As well as adding several new series like Westworld which is the second HBO drama produced by Warner Bros.
and The Brick a comedy series starring Tim Robbins and Jack Black and Ballers starring Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson.
As we start this year we also have a lot of momentum at Turner.
In 2014 TBS TNT and Adult Swim claimed three of the top 10 spots in primetime among adults 18 to 49.
TBS was the number two ad-supported cable network in prime time among adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54.
And TNT was home to six of the top 15 original series on ad-supported cable that is more than any other network and that included three new hits in The Last Ship The Librarians and Murder in the First.
That is strong evidence that its emphasis on more distinctive original programming is starting to work.
2014 was also an important year for our sports business with Turner extending its partnership with the NBA through 2025 and kicking off its new agreement with Major League Baseball.
We dipped our toe into the water with sports internationally by obtaining the UEFA Champions League rights in Brazil which will cement the must-have status of our recently acquired sports network Esporte Interativo.
Adult Swim continued to attract the largest audiences of young adults including the top two new shows among adults 18 to 34 Attack on Titan and Black Jesus.
That is the type of programming that helped Adult Swim to be ranked as the number one ad-supported cable network in total day among adults 18 to 24 and 18 to 34 for the 10th consecutive year as well as being the number one ad-supported table network in total day among adults 18 to 49.
And the network it shares a channel with Cartoon Network is on an absolute roll.
In a year where most kids networks were down double digits Cartoon grew its audience from kids 6 to 11 and we gained momentum through the year.
In the fourth quarter Cartoon grew ratings in its key demos by solid double digits and that is a trend that has continued into the first quarter of this year.
Despite these successes we know we can do better in particular at TBS and TNT and we're confident that with new leadership in place and a focus on distinctive original programming we will do better.
The success of CNN is a great example of how the right management and the right programming strategy can drive growth even in the face of challenging industry trends.
In 2014 CNN grew its primetime rating in adults 25 to 54 while MSNBC registered double-digit declines and CNN had an average total day monthly reach of almost 77 million total viewers the largest cumulative audience of any cable news network.
CNN took share by going deeper on the biggest stores revamping key day-parts like morning and expanding its innovative lineup of original primetime series based around talent like Anthony Bourdain Morgan Spurlock Lisa Ling and Mike Rowe.
Its original programming also helped CNN draw by far the youngest median primetime audience among its cable news rivals and match its youngest on record.
CNN's strong performance has continued into 2015 with its ratings in adults 25 to 54 up 70% in January compared to double-digit declines for MSNBC.
And CNN will look to build on that success by further expanding its lineup of originals this year.
Developing a robust slate of must-have programming is a process that takes time but that is one of the things our company does best and we're confident in the team at Turner their strategy and their ability to drive increased viewership across platforms as they execute on the plans they are putting in place.
Before I turn it over to Howard I want to emphasize that we have a lot of confidence in our ability to execute on the ambitious strategy and growth plans we shared with you last October.
We're proud of our track record of industry-leading adjusted EPS growth and shareholder returns over the past five or six years.
But 2015 is really our first full year as the new Time Warner and we're just getting underway.
We're mindful of the challenges ahead of us but we've done a lot of work to get to the right structure the right management and the right strategy so that we're positioned to lead the industry and continue to deliver superior value to our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I will begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
Starting with consolidated results we're pleased with how we ended the year and the progress we're making on the long term targets we discussed at our investor day.
As we look out over the next several years we continue to expect that solid revenue growth attractive margin expansion and accelerating growth in adjusted OI will on average lead to high-teens growth in adjusted EPS.
In 2014 we delivered adjusted EPS growth of 18% our sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
That is in line with our updated guidance and exceeded the outlook we provided at the beginning of the year.
As a reminder adjusted EPS included a net benefit of $0.10 from the tax matters and programming restructuring and severance charges that we previously discussed with you.
Including the additional restructuring and programming charges we took in the fourth quarter and net of intercompany eliminations we incurred $469 million of restructuring and severance charges and $388 million of programming charges in the second half of 2014.
We're expecting the restructuring actions to translate into run rate savings of close to $500 million most of which will come in 2015.
That will free up resources to invest even more in content and position us to accelerate our revenue growth in the coming years while also continuing to expand margins.
Those actions were consistent with our ongoing focus on expense management excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from both periods total expenses increased only 3% from the year despite our continued investments in great content.
And about 100 basis points of that growth was due to the international consolidations at HBO and Warners' acquisition of Eyeworks.
Total SG&amp;A declined slightly for the year.
We also had another strong year of cash flow which was up 12%.
Free cash flow per share was up an even more impressive 19% benefiting from our ongoing share repurchase program.
In 2014 we repurchased $5.5 billion of our shares a significant acceleration from the prior year.
Combined with $1.1 billion in dividends we returned $6.6 billion to shareholders during the year and as evidenced by the dividend increase we announced this morning we remain committed to delivering significant direct returns to shareholders going forward.
So we had another good year of financial performance in 2014 and returned a substantial amount of capital to shareholders while also making great progress in positioning the company for strong growth in the years to come.
I have one additional item to note regarding our 2014 results.
One of our equity method investments is currently undergoing an international tax audit.
If there are any material developments with this situation prior to the filing of our Form 10-K at the end of the month we may be required to update our results to reflect their final 2014 earnings.
Moving on this morning we provided our outlook for 2015.
We anticipate another year of very attractive growth with adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 a share which implies mid-teens growth when excluding the $0.10 benefit to 2014 I noted earlier.
So we expect good growth despite foreign currency swings that at current rates would result in a year-over-year drag of approximately $0.20 to $0.25 and we will do that as we continue to invest aggressively in content to position the company to accelerate revenue growth in 2016.
I will provide additional context around our outlook as we go through the presentation.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I will begin at Turner where we ended 2014 with a record fourth quarter for revenues and adjusted operating income.
Just as important we continued to make progress in positioning Turner to accelerate growth over the next several years and beyond.
Subscription revenues increased 5% for the quarter and 7% for the year and that included an FX headwind of close to 200 basis points in the quarter and approximately 100 basis points for the year.
Without that international subscription revenue would have increased double digits for both periods due to continued positive trends in Latin America.
Domestic subscription revenue growth was in the mid-single-digits in the fourth quarter but excluding the impact from our dispute with Dish domestic subscription revenues would have increased in the high single digits similar to our growth for the full year and that reflected the positive impact of our current domestic renewal cycle.
We anticipate completing new deals with the remainder of our top 10 affiliates by the end of this year which should drive very attractive growth in our subscription revenue over the next several years.
Largely as a result of timing of those renewals and as we indicated to you in the past we will not see the same benefit from domestic renewals in 2015 that we saw in 2014.
At current rates we also expect headwinds of around 300 basis points from foreign currency movements including the move to the SICAD 2 rate in Venezuela.
Taking into account those factors we anticipate subscription revenue growth will slow materially this year before re-accelerating well into the double digits in 2016 and beyond.
Moving on advertising revenues declined 1% in 4Q similar to our expectations coming into the quarter but were up 1% for the year.
The fourth quarter included a drag of close to 500 basis points as a result of airing fewer Major League Baseball playoff games foreign currency movements and the impact from Dish.
Absent those ad revenue would've grown in the quarter.
Domestic advertising declined modestly in the quarter and that included a decline in domestic entertainment including young adults which was partly offset by healthy growth at news where we continued to benefit from positive ratings momentum and very strong trends in our digital business.
Excluding the impact of FX international advertising increased on the high single digits with growth across all regions.
Looking to 2015 current rates imply about 200 basis point drag on advertising foreign currency movements including the move to the SICAD 2 rate in Venezuela.
In the first quarter we're seeing a modest improvement in the domestic environment.
Scatter pricing is pacing up mid to high single digits over the upfront while volume remains moderate.
Putting all those factors together we anticipate total advertising revenues to be about flat.
Excluding programming and restructuring charges in both periods adjusted operating income would have grown modestly in the quarter and 5% for the year and without those same charges programming expenses increased 2% in the quarter and 7% for the year.
That reflects our ongoing investments in both sports and original programming which we expect will generate attractive returns over the next several years.
Looking through the charges I just discussed we limited total expense growth to 4% in 2014 and that was a result of keeping SG&amp;A costs flat reflecting our commitment to tightly managing our non-programming expenses in order to direct additional resources to key programming.
So in 2014 we continued to execute our plan at Turner and we feel we have laid the groundwork to expand margins and grow the business at very attractive rates over the next several years.
Turning to HBO where we had another year of solid growth in both revenues and adjusted operating income subscription revenues were up 5% in the quarter and 8% for the year.
The consolidations of HBO Asia and HBO Nordic contributed about 300 basis points to the full year growth.
As a reminder we had fully lapped both consolidations before the start of the fourth quarter.
Domestically we had steady subscription revenue growth throughout the year.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO and Cinemax together added over 2.8 million domestic subscribers in 2014 that is the best domestic sub growth in over three decades.
As we've previously discussed most of these subscriber additions are non-revenue-generating.
Still we saw some improvement in the subscriber mix in 2014 which contributed to a modest acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth and we expect a further acceleration in that growth over the next few years.
Turning to content and other revenues which increased 14% in the quarter and 24% for the year that was boosted by a record year in home video led by sales of season three of Game of Thrones.
HBO's licensing deal with Amazon also contributed to the strong full year results.
Across HBO's international operations including unconsolidated JVs we increased revenues double digits in 2014 and that included growth in both our licensing and networks business.
International subscriber trends also remained strong growing double digits across most regions.
Sub growth was especially strong in Latin America and Europe in 2014.
Adjusted operating income declined 5% in the quarter and that was largely due to the timing of theatrical expenses and investments in original programming which drove mid-teens growth in programming expenses.
Marketing expenses were also higher in the quarter as we continued to invest in the brand.
For the full year programming costs were up in the high single digits when excluding the international consolidations.
To help fund that investment HBO remains focused on constraining non-programming expenses and excluding the international consolidations we limited SG&amp;A growth to 1% in 2014.
Despite the drop in the fourth quarter and higher restructuring charges adjusted operating income grew 7% for the year so we had another year of solid growth and we continue the subscriber momentum we have had over the past few years both domestically and internationally.
Given the strong demand for the product globally we feel very good about our ability to further accelerate growth over the next several years.
Now on to Warner Bros.
where excluding restructuring and severance charges 2014 would have been another record year for adjusted operating income.
And we achieved that thanks to continued growth in the TV business and our focus on cost containment.
2014 also benefited from a patent license and settlement agreement.
On the TV side revenues grew double digits in the fourth quarter capping off a great year.
Internationally Warners continues to benefit from the growing demand for high-quality TV content from both linear and SVOD buyers.
We're also seeing growth in local production from Eyeworks acquisition we completed earlier in 2014 and domestically Warners remains the industry leader in primetime series produced for broadcast networks for the 2014-2015 TV Season.
So the trends in TV production remain positive and we're confident we can continue to grow this business over the next several years.
Theatrically coming into the year we knew we had tough comps especially in the fourth quarter and that played out as expected with revenue declining for both the quarter and the year.
But we're off to a terrific start in 2015 with the success of American Sniper and longer-term we think we have the strongest slate in the history of the company so overall we feel really good about the outlook for our theatrical business.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue declined 12% for the year in part due to a softer slate.
That was roughly in line with the overall market which was down 7% excluding SVOD however we continued to see positive trends in digital across both theatrical and television product with electronic sell-through revenue up 40% for the year.
On the expense side consistent with our companywide focus on efficiency Warner continues to tightly manage overhead costs.
Excluding restructuring and severance charges from both periods total expenses increased less than 2% and SG&amp;A was down 4% for the year.
As we head into 2015 we will start to see the benefit from the restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter which we expect to contribute to margin expansion over time.
So on the whole Warners had a very good year and with our slate of franchise films starting in 2016 and the strong secular demand for high-quality TV content we feel we're in a great position to grow Warners at attractive rates for the foreseeable future.
Turning to the next slide we had another year of strong free cash flow generation growing free cash flow 12% to $3.5 billion.
As can see on the slide we've broken out the programming restructuring and severance charges incurred in the second half of 2014 which had a significant impact on adjusted operating income.
Our cash taxes increased primarily due to lower foreign tax credits.
Cash interest increased as a result of the additional debt we issued during the year and the improvement in working capital was primarily due to lower participations at Warner Bros.
Looking to 2015 keep in mind that we will have approximately $300 million of severance payments related to the restructuring actions we took this past year.
In addition we expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash primarily due to the large syndication sales at Warners.
All that aside we still anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation and we expect to continue converting a very high percentage of our earning into free cash flow in the years to come.
Looking at our balance sheet we ended 2014 with $19.9 billion of net debt up $1.6 billion compared to the end of 2013 that is primarily a result of our continued commitment to direct returns to shareholders.
As I mentioned at the start of my presentation during 2014 we repurchased $5.5 billion in shares and combined with our dividend returned $6.6 billion in total to shareholders.
During the year we took advantage of favorable market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by issuing $2 billion of long term debt at very favorable rates.
On the M&amp;A front we invested just under $1 billion in 2014.
The majority of that was directed towards our financing arrangements with CME and our acquisition of Eyeworks' international television operations.
Due to the programming restructuring and severance charges in the second half of the year our net leverage ratio was around three times at the end of 2014.
However explain those charges our net leverage ratio would have been 2.7 times slightly below our target level.
One item to keep in mind in terms of our use of capital during the next few years will be the cash payments related to our real estate project at Hudson Yards.
The majority of these payments will be recognized in investing activities including a few hundred million dollars in 2015.
On balance I'm pleased with how we executed on our capital plan in 2014.
And as we look ahead neither our philosophy nor our processes around capital allocation have changed so you can expect us to remain very disciplined and balanced in our approach to capital allocation.
We remain committed to maintaining our solid investment grade credit ratings and are comfortable with our net leverage target of 2.75 times.
We continue to believe that target provides us the flexibly to invest in our businesses engage in strategic M&amp;A and provide direct returns to shareholders while at the same time optimizing our cost of capital and providing strong access to the capital markets in a variety of macroeconomic scenarios.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
In 2015 we expect to deliver really attractive growth in adjusted operating income and another year of solid double-digit adjusted EPS growth and we expect that will be as a result of strong growth across all of our divisions.
Before getting into the details please note that my comments will be based on 2014 results excluding the programming restructuring and severance charges taken in the second half of the year.
At Turner we will benefit from around $200 million in savings from the restructuring efforts and more modest programming expense growth as our NASCAR deal ended in 2014.
Those factors should translate into healthy margin expansion.
While we continue to see positive underlying trends internationally the strong dollar and the exchange rate change in Venezuela will provide headwinds.
Nonetheless we anticipate a return to very healthy adjusted operating income growth which is evidence of our continued ability to manage our cost structure to drive attractive growth even in years with more modest top-line trends.
At HBO we continue to see strong demand for our services globally and that should result in continued solid subscription revenue growth.
And along with disciplined expense management we anticipate that we will drive a significant acceleration in adjusted operating income growth in 2015.
As we've previously discussed we plan to launch an over-the-top service domestically this year and will provide more color on those plans as we get closer to launching.
At Warner Bros.
we anticipate revenue growth to be led by our TV syndication slate which includes 2 Broke Girls and Person of Interest.
We also have a robust slate of video games anchored by key franchise releases Batman: Arkham and Mortal Kombat so we expect strong revenue growth combined with cost savings from the restructurings to translate into very attractive adjusted operating income growth and another record year at Warners.
Looking across all three segments we're set up for a very good year from an operating perspective and that is despite an expected drag on adjusted operating income of approximately $250 million to $300 million as a result of the strengthening U.S.
dollar and the exchange rate change in Venezuela.
That impact will primarily show up at Turner and Warner Bros.
and equates to approximately $0.20 to $0.25 at the adjusted EPS level which we have factored into our outlook.
It is also worth noting that intercompany eliminations will be a material drag this year due to increased content sales from Warner Bros.
to HBO and Turner including the syndication sale of 2 Broke Girls.
In addition we started to recognize 100% of CME's losses in our equity income in the fourth quarter as a result of our accumulated net losses exceeding the book value of our common stock investments.
For context in 2014 this change would have resulted in an additional $0.05 negative impact to adjusted EPS.
In terms of cadence we expect 2015 adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS to be heavily weighted towards the second half of the year given the timing of both syndication availabilities and this year's theatrical slate at Warner Bros.
Putting all that together we expect another very good year in 2015 which is reflected in our outlook for adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 or mid-teens growth when excluding the second-half restructuring and programming charges and tax matters we noted earlier and that is despite the negative impact of foreign exchange that I just noted.
At the same time our continued investments in high-quality video content and our industry-leading brands will position us for accelerating revenue growth in 2016.
So we continue to expect high-teens adjusted EPS growth on average through 2018 and remain on track to hit the financial targets we shared with you at our investor day in October.
With that I'll turn it back to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you open up the line for questions please? [Operator Instructions].
And our first question here comes from Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Please go ahead sir.
One for Howard or John one for Jeff.
There has been a lot of focus on affiliate revenue growth for Turner Networks.
I was hoping first that Howard or John you would help us know whether Turner domestic affiliate revenue is on track towards your initial budgets for pricing and subscriber levels or if those budgets have been shifting around as you saw 4Q results.
And are you able to be more specific regarding the year-over-year domestic drivers for 4Q the Dish impact and subscriber changes versus core pricing? And for Jeff you expressed a lot of confidence in achieving 2016 EPS guidance but I think some investors are still uncertain with all the cross-currents right now for affiliate revenue.
You've got Sling TV and cord cutting cord shaving; the Dish outage in October.
I'm just curious how many of the top 10 renewals are left to be completed and what drives your confidence in hitting your 2016 and beyond affiliate revenue goals? Thanks very much.
It's Jeff I'll start.
Let me just begin by saying I am and we're all still confident in our '16 and '18 targets and let me go into some of the reasons and then John and Howard will pick up from there.
We did see some sub declines last year in the basic cable universe and we have planned for modest declines to continue.
And I think as everyone knows ad growth has been very muted but we still see very strong consumer demand for multichannel TV and increasing viewing across all the platforms.
And we think that TV and video remains the best platform for reaching a mass audience for advertisers.
We also see that multichannel revenues are all still growing at a healthy clip so we think there is pretty good opportunity for continued growth.
We're working closely with all our distributors to improve the consumer value proposition that means more and more vibrant VOD offerings from all the networks.
It means providing stacking rights for original series; that would be another example where I think HBO has all its series up pretty much.
Turner has all of its series up.
And we think more SVOD -- more VOD and more and better user interfaces are going to make a difference in all of the retention basically of multichannel TV.
We're also moving aggressively to provide advertisers with the analytics and targeting that they are coming to expect.
And we think that as we do that more successfully we're going to take back share from digital competitors over time.
Beyond the traditional ecosystem we think there's a lot of opportunity for companies like ours that specialize in high-quality content not just in the U.S.
but also globally.
But if you just go back to the United States Sling TV is one example of increased value and opportunity from networks like ours.
HBO over-the-top is another example.
So on the whole we think the value of that content and of our networks is growing and we think some of the changes that all of us are beginning to see in having more flexible consumer offerings are going to support the value of the best networks and the strongest brands.
That’s basically why we see ourselves on track for our targets in '16 and '18.
And John and Howard I think you have a few things to add.
Just a few additional comments with regard to the rhythm of our affiliate contracts we've got seven of the Top 10 affiliates closed and we anticipate closure of remaining deals this year.
As we reported in the past everything is going exactly in accordance with plan.
We're achieving the rate increases and the terms that we have been seeking.
And this year in the multiyear overall cycle we fully anticipated and we have communicated before that there will be somewhat of a moderation in subscriber revenue growth but then it's going to pick back up beyond 2015.
I think it's important though when you look at the longer-term trends of multichannel in the U.S.
to understand that the evidence that we see clearly indicates that the main reason why people are leaving the multichannel universe let's call them cord cutters is because they either can't afford it or they don't think there's enough value in the offerings that are currently being provided to them by the MVPDs.
We also believe that a portion of that community would like to sign back up for multichannel TV if the offerings were comprised of more affordable and greater flexibility.
I think Sling as Jeff said is a great example but I think it's important to understand that it is the first example.
A lot of the economy packs that the MVPDs are currently offering are based more on whether the contracts allow for them and they are based more on cost and they're offered as retention tools as opposed to proactive marketing opportunities.
I think that is going to change over time.
We've been saying for a long time that there's too many channels in existence today.
The approach that Time Warner and Turner have taken over the years of investing heavily in a core group of channels we think is going to really pay handsome dividends in the future as we have two of the top five three of the top 10 networks and 85% of our affiliate fees are comprised in the Top 4 and we're pleased to be in the Sling initial offering.
So we're quite optimistic about how things are going to continue to evolve over time and we're quite optimistic about the hand that we have in terms of the value of the networks.
Doug just a quick point in terms of the drivers in the fourth quarter the biggest impact was the result of FX and that was followed by the impact of the Dish dispute and then finally there was a smaller impact from subscriber declines that includes sub losses the move to smaller bundles a redefinition of bulk accounts.
So it's a handful of smaller impacts that make up the sub declines.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
John Janedis from Jefferies.
Please go ahead sir.
Maybe a slight follow-up can you give us an update on the Dish negotiation? I guess with the launch of Sling including your networks is the read-through that you’re confident that something gets done in the near-term? And is the issue more on pricing or rights? And then Howard based on your response to Doug's question is Dish one of those three that are still outstanding? Thanks.
I will start and then the chorus will go.
We're having very good conversations and we have a good business going with Dish that is why we all came -- Charlie's management and ours to I think a happy agreement on the Sling product.
And we feel very good about our overall business together whether it is at Turner or HBO.
Beyond that I don't have more to add.
John do you have more? John I was just going to point out that Dish is one of the deals that we have not completed at this point.
Our next question comes from Mr.
David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
So it looks like Kevin Riley now has basically his team in place and I think we could assume that the new content cycle has begun.
So could you I guess first articulate is there a different vision that that team has in terms of genre or programming? Is it basic continuation of sort of the BOOM! [ph] brand and the Turner Comedy brand? When do we expect to see the impact of Kevin's team and his process on ratings for the schedule and ultimately on advertising? Then also how close is he working with Peter Roth for a holistic Turner Warner product as well as Kevin for broader monetization outside of the first window? If you could talk about the holistic approach Warners has to the Turner properties there for content creation and distribution.
It's John I will start.
Look Kevin is here.
He has hit the ground running.
He has brought great new perspective a lot of energy a lot of enthusiasm.
He has officially been here for just over a month and he is already announced a new organization and a new structure and he is bringing in some fresh talent.
And he is working terrifically with David Levy and together working towards the upfront on the existing development slate and working on sharpening the brand positioning reach of TNT and TBS as we move into the future.
I want to just caution that we got to give Kevin some time because he hasn't been here for very long but I couldn't be more pleased with the talent and the direction that our big networks are going to be going in and we're starting to build off of an increasing position of success.
As we said before TNT we're going to look to go a little bit younger more dual and sharpen the TBS brand promise.
But if you think about in the fourth quarter we premiered The Librarians which is the highest premiere on all ad-supported basic cable.
It beat out Last Ship which was number two.
We had six of the top 15 original dramas as Jeff said.
And on the original program side on TBS we've got six new shows three returning and 2 Broke Girls coming on from Warners.
So I would love for Kevin to give some perspective on how Kevin and the team are working with Warners.
We're really excited about two big dramas coming out of Warners that are going to be moving on to TNT soon and just from my perspective at Turner I think the relationship has never been better and Warners is our most important partner.
Peter Roth and Kevin Riley have a long history together at both FX and Fox and they've really hit the ground running.
They can talk in shorthand; they have a great relationship.
As John said we have two big dramas that we feel really good about and we have a number of other projects in the hopper and so we feel great about where we're at with Turner as well as HBO.
I think things from a Warner Bros.' production perspective and getting access to our roster of talent and being able to work as we're currently with Turner and HBO is a huge opportunity.
It's Richard.
I would just add that this is the first time in history that Warner Bros.
and HBO are doing business together in television production.
Huge success with Leftovers doing over 7 million viewers in production on Westworld with Jonathan Nolan and tremendously talented cast and I think it just speaks to what we talked about on investor day which is working together across divisions to maximize our capacity.
Our next here comes from Ms.
Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
I've a question on HBO.
It's been several quarters now since you had the deal with Amazon which obviously has the obvious benefit of giving you the revenue stream that you've been able to reinvest in programming.
But beyond that benefit I guess can you talk about how you think it has maybe changed audience habits and sense? Are you seeing more -- do you think it's driving consumers to HBO traditional HBO in terms of getting them hooked on shows or attracted to that kind of programming? Couple of things first of all the performance on Prime and everything we have heard from our friends in Amazon has exceeded even their expectations in terms of usage and customer satisfaction.
We said at the beginning that in addition to helping us monetize some of our library -- remember it's windowed at three years we thought it was a wonderful opportunity to have some of the 70 million non-HBO homes have a chance to sample some of our best programming.
We think that only has the catalytic effect of driving people back to the network.
Listen we had the biggest sub growth last year any time in 30 years and I think there is a lot of factors that contributed to that but Amazon I think might have been one of them because people have an opportunity to see what they previously haven't seen.
So it has been a tremendously positive relationship for us which we expect to continue.
And then just a quick thought if I can on your commentary earlier about Turner subs.
I think you mentioned it was a small cause I guess of the weakness in the subs in the quarter.
And you said you had mentioned that you are expecting further sort of modest declines in subs in 2015.
I guess are you looking for that decline to accelerate or is it kind of the same sort of level? We're expecting to see the same sort of levels that we saw over the past year or so.
But if I could add you may see as time goes on some important increases coming out of more better targeted bundles smaller bundles with powerful networks that are more intentional by the distributors rather than just retention save packages that they have now where they are essentially using low-cost networks to do retentions.
So we would not necessarily sign up to a long term decline on that.
Our next question comes from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
I have two questions; the first is a follow-up to Jeff's comments on the expanded -- on behavioral-based advertising.
Could you just talk a little bit about how you will sell this? Is this addressable advertising? And can you do it on your own or do you need the industry to participate? Listen we will be talking a lot more about this at the upfront and we have released this in a press release some time ago that we've got an arrangement with a third party who is going to help us with our mix of programming connecting with advertisers and providing us with certain behavioral targeting capabilities that we previously didn't have.
And we really look forward to the upfront because I think you are going to see a much more unified Turner and much more focus on targeting and delivering audiences to advertisers not just key demos.
Just to repeat what Jeff said because I think this is really really important the holy-grail for us as advertising-supported cable network companies is to sync together the targeting capabilities which is the big selling point of digital right now link that together with the reach and the fantastic immersive environment of full-scale long-form video.
And so we think that -- and that's just going to continue.
We're going to invest.
We're going to build internal capabilities and we're going to use the best products on the market to continue to get better at delivering ROI to our marketers.
Okay.
We could go on forever on that one but then just to switch gears; on HBO I know you said multiple times on this call that you will have an OTT offer later in the year.
Can you just give some color on pricing and positioning? How do you not cannibalize your existing subs? There is a huge universe that doesn't get right now whether they are pay-TV subs or non-pay-TV subs.
So can you just talk about how you are thinking about approaching it? Jessica it's Richard.
Look we're going to price it in a way that obviously maximizes the value on all platforms.
Quite obviously it is a premium product and it will be priced accordingly.
But the other point I would make as we talk to our distributors is there is a real opportunity out there in the low-hanging fruit of the 10-or-so-million broadband only homes and we're very excited about working together with them to leverage that opportunity.
Our meetings have gone very well in that regard and I think it's a tremendous advantage for them and us to use HBO to drive broadband and to drive some of the low packaging.
Joe I think we have time for one more question please.
Our next question here comes from Rich Greenfield from BTIG.
Please go ahead.
Kind of a conceptual question your Netflix has come out and said they are spending $3 billion to $4 billion on content and I think Jeff Bezos announced as part of Amazon earnings that they are going to spend $1.3 billion on content.
So we're clearly seeing that big tech companies are investing heavily in content.
Time Warner made the decision to scale back its tech investment and outsource technology to Major League Baseball.
I just wanted you to go through the puts and takes of outsourcing technology versus having your own internal tech stack.
Particularly I think it sounds like you are going to use HBO as kind of the leading force to build a direct-to-consumer business for your other brands and just how that all evolves.
Rich it's Richard let me start.
First of all I would dissent slightly that we're pulling back from our investments.
We're not -- we're continuing to invest in technology.
MLB is an investment in technology.
We just happen to think that working with a partner that already has a platform built makes the most sense and we're very comfortable we're on track for our launch.
I can't say more about the date other than that we have a date and we feel very comfortable with our schedule.
The thing I would add about content is look it's true that there is a plethora of competition out there.
It's also true that more is not better only better is better.
And I like our hand a lot as I've said to you before given the range of talent that comes to our door I think on a forward [ph] first call basis.
So as we've said this isn't a zero-sum game other people are going to do good work but we're going to have a first look at most everything that we want to make an investment in in terms of content.
And I would add as Richard said earlier when we can go to our talent base and be able to demonstrate through Leftovers and Westworld that we're taking the best projects and projects over to HBO it helps us as well because they are going to get access to the best talent that we have on a daily basis.
Rich it's Jeff.
I can't resist adding those were nice numbers you gave on some of our new brothers and sisters in the content business.
But as we mentioned in our call I don't of it me or Howard we have been ramping up our content spending dramatically over the last five or six years and we're continuing to do that.
We're spending $15 billion a year on production marketing etc.
It's going up to $19 billion in the horizon that we've been giving plans for.
So there is global support in terms of viewers and attachment to video content.
These check changes whether they are being provided as platforms by other companies or which part of it we decide to provide are simply making the content more powerful and bringing in more viewers and giving us more ways to monetize.
If I could just follow-up -- that's a great answer.
I'm just curious is there any way to think about total companywide spending on technology? We don't have that number sitting right here because it's hard to do the borders on that.
There is so much technology Rich involved in our ongoing operations.
Just take CNN with its tens of feeds all over the world all digital.
We've got HBO GO.
I think it's artificial to take a border on certain broadband-delivered tech products and not consider the very adjacent and very intertwined technology that is required in digital transmission backhauls all of our feeds across the planet.
We have hundreds of them so that's why we don't segregate.
Thanks Rich.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions we're always around.
We appreciate your time.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.