Hello and welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated Q1 2015 earnings call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to Time Warner's first quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the first quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full-year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that is available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for a Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thank you for listening in this morning.
We came into 2015 with a lot of momentum and delivered a standout first quarter both financially and strategically underscoring the vibrancy of our business.
We grew revenue 5% and adjusted operating income 12% led by a 26% increase at Turner.
And that fueled 23% growth in adjusted earnings per share.
We also returned $1.2 billion to our shareholders during the quarter in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
We accomplished all this at a time when we were aggressively pursuing new initiatives designed to adapt the company to the rapid changes that are occurring in the industry and to capitalize on the growing demand that we see for high-quality video content all over the world.
When we laid out our long-term goals last October you'll recall that we presented a plan for sustained success that revolved around increasing our investments in distinctive engaging content.
We detailed our plans to monetize that content both within and beyond the traditional TV and film ecosystems.
And we talked about our unrelenting commitment to financial discipline which is what enables us to fund even more investment in great content while also delivering strong financial results and returning capital to shareholders.
We made progress on all those objectives this quarter.
So this morning I want to spend a few minutes going through some operational highlights which illustrate how we're continuing to evolve our businesses and execute our plan.
I'll start inside the ecosystem where our businesses are incredibly healthy.
In the first quarter Turner generated the highest quarterly profit in its history.
That performance was a reflection of the operating momentum Turner has across its portfolio.
And it demonstrates the value we bring and derive from our partnerships with distributors around the world.
Nowhere was our momentum more evident than in sports where we continue to show the power of premium programming.
This year's NCAA Men's Tournament delivered its highest average viewership in 22 years.
That included a Kentucky-Wisconsin national semifinal which was the most watched basketball game ever on cable TV as well as the most watched program in Turner's history.
That performance was matched by tremendous advertiser demand generating double-digit ad growth for the tournament on our networks.
The strong performance of the NCAA helped TBS finish as the number one ad-supported U.S.
cable network among adults 18 to 49 in primetime in the first quarter.
And if last year is any indication the NBA Playoffs will help TNT land in a similar position this quarter.
Beyond sports we're also continuing to invest in the best original programming.
TNT had three of the top 10 cable originals in the first quarter.
That's Major Crimes The Librarians and Rizzoli &amp; Isles.
But the evolution of programming on TBS and TNT is just getting going.
Over the remainder of the year we have eight new original series set to join an already strong lineup of original programming on those networks.
We're particularly excited about the launch of Proof and upcoming seasons of The Last Ship Murder in the First and Falling Skies on TNT and the debut of Angie Tribeca on TBS.
So we're pleased with the progress there and we're looking forward to sharing more at our upfront presentation in a couple of weeks.
At Adult Swim we also continue to lead the way with millennial audiences.
In the first quarter it was the number one ad-supported cable network in adults 18 to 34 for the 28th consecutive quarter.
That's an incredible run.
In younger kids Cartoon Network continued to take share by focusing on global franchises and improving our domestic scheduling.
In the first quarter Cartoon aired nine of the top 10 cable telecasts with boys 6 to 11 and it grew its audience 22% with kids 6 to 11.
The strength of its programming has been evident in video-on-demand too.
Cartoon ranked number one in the kids category on VOD in the quarter and it was the number one cable network overall on VOD in January.
Meanwhile CNN the global news leader followed a very strong 2014 by growing its total day 25 to 54 audience 20% year over year in the quarter.
HLN also had strong growth in its key demo while their two principal competitors both saw declines.
One driver of CNN's growth has been the continued strength of its originals including the successful launches of Finding Jesus and The Wonder List.
So as I said we believe we're bringing a lot of value to distributors and audiences and that was clear in Turner's recently concluded renewal with DISH.
The deal was entirely consistent with the business goals we've shared with you and it means that we've now successfully completed renewals with eight of Turner's top 10 distributors during this renewal cycle.
HBO and DISH also concluded a new affiliate agreement underscoring both HBO's commitment to its traditional distributors and the value it provides for them.
And on the heels of a very strong 2014 HBO continued to grow its subscriber base in the first quarter.
Its subscriber momentum is a reflection of the powerful combination of the biggest and most recent Hollywood hits with the very best collection of groundbreaking original content.
This year HBO's programming is once again standing out from the crowd including headline-making documentaries like Going Clear and The Jinx.
Earlier this month Game of Thrones returned for its fifth season with its season premiere growing over last season when it became HBO's most watched original series ever.
We're also off to a strong start for the new seasons of Veep Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Silicon Valley.
And we will follow those up with second seasons of True Detective and The Leftovers with new shows like Ballers and The Brink and with an expansion of our relationship with Vice.
And as good as the current lineup is we're just as excited about the pipeline with shows like Westworld from J.J.
Abrams; Divorce which will star Sarah Jessica Parker; and a rock and roll drama from Martin Scorsese all coming to HBO in the near future.
Warner Bros.
Television continues to match the success of our networks with an industry-leading lineup of programs across broadcast and cable including the number one comedy and the number one unscripted series among adults 18 to 49 this season.
Warner's content has also been key to Cartoon Network's success with DC property Teen Titans Go! ranking as the number one show among boys 6 to 11 in the quarter.
And we're set for another very strong showing in this year's upfront where we expect DC to once again be a driving force for WB TV.
We also continue to see growth outside of the U.S.
with record international TV distribution revenue in the first quarter.
We've had similar success theatrically where Warner's was number one at the domestic box office in the quarter.
Its performance was led by American Sniper which opened to wide release and great acclaim in January and to date has brought in well over $0.5 billion at the global box office.
In just two weeks we're releasing another potential global hit Mad Max: Fury Road.
And in the coming years we think we have the strongest lineup of franchise films in the studio's history.
Against that backdrop of momentum within the traditional ecosystem let me talk for a moment about the progress we're making beyond that ecosystem.
We see significant opportunities to further monetize our great content and to grow our leading brands through new broadband delivered video services for intended online destinations and franchise extensions like video games.
And those opportunities are increasingly global in nature.
Last month we broke new ground with the debut of HBO NOW.
That's our standalone broadband delivered version of HBO.
We started with Apple as our exclusive digital launch partner and Cablevision as our first traditional distribution partner.
And you'll hear about even more ways to get HBO soon.
The initial response has been very positive both in terms of subscribers and usage.
And we're confident that with this launch we're laying the groundwork for HBO's next leg of growth both domestically and around the world.
That's just one example of how we're taking advantage of broadband distribution to extend the reach and increase the value of our content and our networks.
In the first quarter Warner started the rollout of an SVOD service in Southeast Asia in partnership with Singtel and Sony Pictures called HOOQ.
HOOQ launched the service in the Philippines in March and plans to expand to India Thailand and Indonesia soon.
And Hollywood VIP Warner's SVOD partnership with China's Tencent continues to perform strongly with growth accelerating in the most recent quarter.
Domestically Turner and HBO have agreed to include their networks in the new multi-channel offering from Sling and Turner is now distributing its networks through Sony Vue.
Turner's syndication deal with Hulu further underscores the demand for our networks and their content across distribution platforms.
New distribution platforms are also demonstrating the enduring value of Warner's vast library.
Just this quarter Warner's licensed Friends to SVOD.
That's more than a decade after it went off the air.
These new platforms and the growth in connected devices are creating additional ways for us to engage with consumers and CNN is taking full advantage.
CNN Digital reached more than 66 million multi-platform users in the U.S.
during the first quarter and it was the number one news provider in mobile page views.
CNN's strength across all platforms was underscored by the range of new digital distribution partnerships we announced in the first quarter including SnapChat Roku the Apple Watch and Apple TV.
We're also building a global digital sports business around Bleacher Report and we couldn't be more pleased with its performance.
Last year Bleacher Report passed Yahoo! to become the number two sports destination.
That's a position it maintained in the first quarter helping it to post double-digit revenue growth over last year.
We saw similarly Live strong revenue growth on March Madness Live another key digital sports asset.
March Madness Live was a huge success this year serving 81 million live video streams and growing consumption by almost 20%.
It's a great example of how the traditional and new digital ecosystems can successfully coexist and is just one of the success stories our brands have recently had in the app environment.
You've heard me say many times that Warner's is the global leader in television and film production but we're also building momentum in our games business.
We ended the first quarter with double-digit market share in the U.S.
our highest share ever.
And our recent release of Mortal Kombat X generated more than $130 million in consumer sales in its first week of release.
Our next major release will be the conclusion of our Batman Arkham trilogy Arkham Knight which is going to hit stores later this quarter.
And this fall we'll be extending our LEGO games franchise into the toys-to-life category with the release of LEGO Dimensions.
Dimensions will blend iconic franchises with physical LEGOs and interactive console play.
LEGO and DC are key drivers of our theatrical and television businesses going forward and games are a natural extension and growth opportunity that we're very excited about.
So you can see this is a very active very exciting time at Time Warner.
We're reinforcing and benefiting from our investments in the health of the traditional film and TV ecosystems while aggressively pursuing the many growth opportunities we see beyond them.
And we're more confident than ever that the investments we're making in great content will help drive growth for many years to come.
Thanks now let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
Starting with consolidated results we're off to a great start to the year with revenue growth of 5% adjusted operating income up a very strong 12% to a quarterly record of $1.8 billion and adjusted EPS up 23%.
We're especially pleased with our results in light of significant foreign exchange headwinds which were a drag of about $130 million on adjusted operating income and $0.14 on adjusted EPS in the quarter.
Adjusted operating income margins expanded more than 150 basis points largely as a result of the cost savings initiatives we undertook last year.
Reflecting that SG&amp;A was down 7% in the quarter.
At the same time we increased investments both in content and marketing including to support the launch of HBO NOW.
Moving down the income statement we continued to turn growth in adjusted operating income into even faster growth in adjusted EPS and that was due to our ongoing share repurchase program and a lower effective tax rate in the quarter which helped offset higher equity income losses.
As a reminder our earnings now reflect 100% of CME's [Central European Media Enterprises] results through equity income.
During the first quarter we repurchased about $900 million in shares.
And combined with our dividend we returned almost $1.2 billion to shareholders.
So we're executing really well across our businesses.
And this morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
That implies mid-teens growth in adjusted EPS when excluding the 2014 programming and restructuring charges and tax matters and that's despite a material drag from the stronger dollar.
So we feel really good about the underlying trends in our businesses and that gives us great confidence in our long-term growth prospects.
Now turning to the segment highlights I'll begin at Turner where the growing operating momentum across its business was reflected in a terrific first quarter.
Five percent revenue growth and significant margin expansion translated into 26% growth in adjusted operating income and a record quarter.
Turner's momentum was evident in the improvement in advertising which grew 4% in the quarter.
That was ahead of our expectations due to the strength of the NCAA Tournament and healthy growth at our domestic news business.
And that was despite a drag of over 150 basis points from foreign exchange.
Domestic growth was in the mid-single digits and that included low single-digit growth at Domestic Entertainment including young adults and very healthy double-digit growth at News where we continued to benefit from positive ratings momentum and digital growth.
Excluding foreign exchange and the benefit from the consolidation of Esporte Interativo our sports network in Brazil international advertising was up high single digits with growth across all regions.
Looking ahead the domestic advertising market is relatively unchanged with scatter pricing up high single digits for our entertainment networks.
In the second quarter we expect a drag of close to 300 basis points from the combination of increasing foreign exchange headwinds and the absence of NASCAR programming.
Taking that into consideration we expect total advertising revenue to be flat to up low single digits.
Moving on subscription revenue increased 3% in the quarter including a drag of over 250 basis points from foreign exchange.
Domestic subscription revenue grew 4% as pricing increases were offset by modest sub losses.
We were really pleased with our recent renewal with a major affiliate but keep in mind that the structure of our various contracts are such that we expect to see the benefit from improved pricing related to that deal beginning in 2016.
Excluding foreign exchange international was up double digits primarily due to strong growth in Latin America where we continue to see healthy trends.
Looking to the second quarter we expect domestic subscription revenue growth to remain in the same range as the first quarter.
Based on current rates we anticipate an impact of around 350 basis points from foreign exchange on total subscription revenue due to the continued strengthening of the dollar.
As a result we anticipate subscription revenue growth to modestly decelerate sequentially.
However we remain on track for domestic subscription revenue growth to reaccelerate well into the double digits in 2016 and 2017.
Content revenue also grew nicely and that was due both to the timing of SVOD availabilities and a small contribution from our new Hulu deal.
Turning to margins we were able to drive a 700 basis point year-over-year improvement in the quarter partially as a result of the cost savings initiatives I noted earlier.
Programming expenses were down 3% and that was largely due to the timing of original programming as well as lower acquired programming costs related to our decision to abandon certain programming in the second half of last year.
That more than offset increases in sports costs.
As we discussed with you previously we plan to reinvest savings from the programming charges into new content that better fits our current vision for TNT and TBS but it will take some time to execute that.
Taking that into account as well as the absence of NASCAR we expect programming expense growth to be weighted to the back half of the year.
Total expenses declined 7% in the quarter due to lower SG&amp;A and the decline in programming costs that I just discussed.
SG&amp;A was down 17% in the quarter and that was due both to savings from the restructuring actions we took last year as well as lower marketing costs resulting from the timing of original programming.
Putting it all together Turner had a great start to the year and is making real progress on its long-term strategic objectives and we expect very strong growth in adjusted operating income in 2015.
Turning now to HBO where subscriber trends continued to be very positive following a record year for domestic sub gains subscription revenue increased 4% which included a slight drag from the transfer of HBO's basic cable service in India to Turner in January due to regulatory changes.
Content and other revenues were up 5% in the quarter and that underscored the continued demand for our content both in Home Entertainment and international licensing.
Across HBO's international operations including unconsolidated JVs revenues and adjusted operating income were flat.
That was primarily due to a decline in LatAm related to the timing of certain programming expenses and foreign exchange.
Overall we still expect another year of growth at HBO's international networks and that's a reflection of continued positive momentum in subscriber trends especially in LatAm and the Nordics.
Adjusted operating income was down 1% in the quarter mainly due to a 9% increase in programming expenses.
And that was a result of mid-teens growth in original programming including new series like Togetherness and documentaries Citizenfour The Jinx and Going Clear as well as an increase in theatrical availabilities.
Marketing costs also increased to support the launch of HBO NOW.
Excluding marketing costs SG&amp;A was down 3% and that's a reflection of our company-wide focus on efficiencies and the restructuring actions taken in the second half of last year.
Overall HBO is off to a solid start to the year.
The strength of the brand and demand for its content is evidenced by continued growth in its subscriber base and the positive reaction to HBO NOW.
And we expect subscriber growth and revenue to benefit modestly over the remainder of the year from the launch of HBO NOW.
At the same time we will incur additional technology and marketing expenses to support its launch which will limit the near-term benefit to adjusted operating income.
And to the extent that performance exceeds our expectations this year we will likely make additional investments in the product to position HBO NOW for success over the long term.
Taking all that into account HBO is making great progress on executing its plan and is on track for a significant acceleration in adjusted operating income growth this year.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
we're off to a good start.
And excluding the impact of foreign exchange adjusted operating income would have increased in the quarter.
Revenues increased 4% with growth across each of Warner's businesses.
Theatrical revenue benefited from the success of American Sniper.
We also saw strong growth in the TV window for films both domestically and internationally highlighting continued robust demand for our theatrical products.
Likewise our TV business continued to benefit from strong global demand as evidenced by higher licensing revenue including the SVOD sale of Friends.
The increase in revenues was more than offset by higher associated film costs and increased P&amp;A due to the mix of films released in the quarter.
Foreign exchange was also a significant headwind.
As a result adjusted operating income declined 13%.
Across theatrical and TV Home Entertainment revenue was down 4% due to lower carryover revenues and declines in catalog.
However EST [Electronic Sell-Through] revenue growth remained very healthy up over 30% in the quarter.
The broader home entertainment industry was approximately in line with our results.
That's a modest improvement from the trends we saw in the second half of last year.
And growth in EST also remains encouraging up very solidly in the double-digits.
Overall Warner Bros.
had a good quarter and is on track to deliver very attractive growth in adjusted operating income in 2015 led by strong TV syndication revenue as well as a robust video game slate and savings from its 2014 restructuring actions.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled just over $1 billion.
That's down from a year ago due to a significant swing in working capital but is still very healthy conversion.
The decline in working capital reflects higher content investments across the divisions the timing of collections and higher participation payments at Warner Bros.
due to the mix of titles.
Cash interest increased modestly as a result of the additional debt we issued in 2014.
And our cash taxes increased primarily due to audit settlements in the quarter.
Looking ahead we expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash for the full year than it was in 2014 and that's primarily due to the large syndication sales at Warner's and severance payments related to the restructuring actions taken in 2014.
Despite that we anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the first quarter with just over $20 billion of net debt up about $330 million compared to the end of 2014.
That's primarily the result of our ongoing commitment to direct returns to shareholders.
As I mentioned earlier we repurchased $890 million in shares and combined with our dividend returned almost $1.2 billion to shareholders in the first quarter.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was three times.
However excluding the programming restructuring and severance charges from the second half of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.65 times similar to the end of 2014 and slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
Looking forward we remain committed to our balanced approach to capital allocation and expect to move closer to our leverage target over the remainder of the year.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We got off to a great start in the first quarter with growing operating momentum across a wide swath of our businesses.
That momentum gives us a lot of confidence in our outlook for the year.
Even more importantly we did that while continuing to lay the groundwork for accelerating growth in the years to come.
And this morning we reaffirmed our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS which we anticipate will be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
We're still confident in that outlook despite FX headwinds which we now estimate are even more significant than we discussed with you previously.
As the year has progressed we have fully incorporated the remeasurement of our balance sheet the FX drag on our equity method investees strong growth at our international businesses and further strengthening of the dollar.
And based on today's rates we now estimate approximately a $0.40 cent drag on adjusted EPS from FX in 2015.
Looking more closely at the second quarter we expect Warner's adjusted operating income to be down due to the timing of both TV availabilities of our theatrical product as well as theatrical releases and associated P&amp;A spend.
We'll also have incremental spend at HBO to support the launch of HBO NOW.
As a reminder last year's second quarter benefited from HBO's licensing arrangement with Amazon.
We're currently in discussions with Amazon about the size and scope of our relationship.
The outcome of those discussions could have an impact on our second quarter results and we'll have more to say about that when the discussions conclude.
Putting that all together we anticipate growth in adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS to slow significantly in the second quarter compared to the first quarter.
Despite that we feel great about the momentum we're seeing across our businesses and are on track for another very good year of growth in adjusted EPS.
And our ongoing investments in high-quality video content and industry-leading brands positions us for continued growth over the years to come.
And now I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Joe can you please start the Q&amp;A? Of course thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes here from Mr.
Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning.
I wanted to come back to HBO NOW and the launch on Apple.
At least to me there's multiple benefits to this including targeting those broadband-only subs but also getting your existing distributors to be more aggressive and successful packaging and selling HBO.
I wonder Richard if you could talk about both of those potential benefits in the light of now the products in the market.
And you have a new DISH deal which I think is one of the companies that maybe has not done as well as we would have thought on selling HBO.
Are you seeing both of those benefits potentially play out in the market and when should we see that in the numbers? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Hey Ben.
Hey Richard.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look first of all we couldn't be more pleased.
We got out of the gate very fast with Apple.
They're delighted; we're delighted.
We see a lot of momentum there.
And we are having what I would call very productive conversations with our traditional partners.
And I expect that by the end of the year we will have deals with them for HBO NOW as well.
I think obviously you have different [Audio Break] (32:33 – 32:38) weighing the benefits of taking that very valuable real estate together.
I think they understand and appreciate that there's a lot of growth for them as well as for us.
Thank you.
Anything else Ben? Yes I was just curious.
Apple has made a lot of noise.
There have been a lot of press reports that Apple is getting even bigger in TV.
I may be broadening this question out to Jeff and John.
How do you think about looking to them as a broader partner on a television bundle which seems to be something they might be focusing on for later this year? Is that something you think could be realistic? And would you embrace that opportunity when you think about Turner and the broader package? Hi Ben this is Jeff.
Yes we would.
Hey Jeff.
We think Apple is very forward thinking about television and the combination of TV and Internet.
And I think as Richard already said the recent partnership with HBO NOW is one example but you can also see it in the CNN placement on the Apple Watch and CNNGo on Apple TV.
So it's no surprise I don't think to anybody that Apple would be interested in launching a video product in the nature of a larger bundle as time goes along.
We're pretty confident that not only will Apple do that but you've also seen it with some of the other offerings whether it's Sling's or Sony's.
And there's a lot of energy and innovation around video-on-demand that is getting super-charged by the capacity of Internet delivery broadband delivery to really bring VOD and good interfaces to people's homes.
They love the channel.
And so if you have great channels and no weak channels which I think is the position of Time Warner all these developments are something that we welcome.
And we think it is going to be good for all the traditional distributors too to reinvigorate their packages and their marketing of channel packages that consumers want.
Thank you.
Thanks Ben.
Joe can we have the next question please? Of course.
Our next question comes from Vasily Karasyov from CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
I have one for John and one for Richard.
John we often hear from investors that they're concerned that Turner won't be able to hit the guidance for subscription revenue growth in the U.S.
because the number of U.S.
pay-TV households will decline and all those usual concerns.
I was wondering if you can share with us your thoughts on this subject and how you got comfortable internally with giving the guidance given where the pay-TV trends are in the United States.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Hi Vasily.
Good morning.
Look we've successfully completed now in the United States eight out of the top 10 distributor deals.
And while we still have two deals to go we're quite confident that they will be completed on a satisfactory basis to us which will mean that we'll be getting the double-digit rate increases that we predicted and we expect to get.
And our confidence isn't going down; it's going up.
In fact at this point our rate card is what our rate card is.
And we've been – I still think that our unique combination of entertainment sports news kids and young adult networks are a tremendous value to both distributors and consumers.
So then the question comes back to what about the subscribers because obviously that's the volume part of the equation.
And while the U.S.
multi-channel household universe has been experiencing some subscriber losses they haven't been material and we don't anticipate that they're going to be material.
And as you've seen with us striking deals with Sling and with Sony and likely with others in the future we're working hard with our existing MVPD partners as well as new partners to try to bring the multi-channel subscription packaging to another level that will reach subscribers that otherwise haven't joined the multi-channel ecosystem.
So I'm hopeful I think we're hopeful collectively that this new packaging era that we're moving into is going to reverse the subscriber trend losses that we've been experiencing recently in the United States.
And I think we're entering a really really exciting period where we can absolutely see subscriber growth.
And I think you're going to see the Turner networks be in as many of those packages as possible because I think we're really really attractive.
Thank you; Richard and then one question for you.
I think as a follow-up on Ben's question.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
It sounds like you are more confident about the potential revenue acceleration after the DISH renewal.
Is it possible to give us a timeframe when we could see that acceleration in HBO subscription revenue? Thank you.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look as we've said publicly look we expect our revenue growth to accelerate over the next years and we can certainly monetize our best performing affiliates to our advantage going forward.
But we've said this: we think there are 10 million to 15 million homes that are highly persuadable potential HBO subs and we're going to go after them.
We're going to go after them with HBO NOW and we're going to go after them with our affiliates.
And the more we make clear how big that opportunity is with empirical data I think the more responsive and receptive our partners are and that's certainly been our experience as we've taken the research in over the last few months.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Vasily.
Joe could we have our next question please? Of course.
Our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks I have one for Richard and then one for Jeff.
Richard on HBO NOW have you considered broadening out the content offering with either more kids' content from your company or Warner Bros.
library content or some of the Turner content that John is funding? So why not broaden out the HBO NOW offer to wider content? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael first of all we think the HBO NOW product as it currently exists is quite extraordinary.
We have four Hollywood movie studios.
We have 2 800 hours of library.
We have an extraordinary range of programming across a multitude of genres.
But there's no barrier to expanding what that content could be and we have an open mind about that.
Our cousins at Warner Bros.
and Turner could certainly be a part of that and I think we're very flexible about what might evolve with the content inside HBO NOW.
Kevin? Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think if you look at kids as an example we are working incredibly closely with Turner on a global strategy where we're putting our content and franchises behind two global platforms that John is driving in Cartoon Network and Boomerang.
And I think that it's an example of the kind of opportunity that can either live within HBO NOW or potentially on the side of HBO NOW.
It's what we talked about as an opportunity in October to you guys and I think we're clearly fleshing that out.
And it's just one example of what we're talking about within Time Warner.
Okay and let me turn to Jeff.
Jeff in the past you had this great quote that when a show was sold into SVOD their sprockets would be run off the show and that would destroy long-term value of the franchise of that show.
But now you've sold two of your most valuable shows Friends and Seinfeld into SVOD which are valuable to the cable networks that they're on.
So why wouldn't selling those shows into SVOD damage the value of the linear cable networks that have licensed Friends and Seinfeld? You have to admit; I've had some great quotes on SVOD.
Yes you have the best.
And I would just start with saying in the case of Seinfeld or Friends the ones you're mentioning Seinfeld I think is fourth cycle syndication; Friends is third cycle.
So the point we'll get into and I'm going to give it to Kevin in a minute is you have to look at the particular show and where it is in its life cycle.
You've got to look at what alternate use it would have in worldwide sales on other outlets whether it's networks or international territories et cetera.
So let me just say something about the SVOD impact on the ecosystem that I think answers your question.
Of course there are increased bidding as the world moves to offering more on-demand ways to see your favorite show.
All the networks whether it's in the United States or overseas are bringing VOD into their network offerings.
And so you can either license things to what we all used to think of as a traditional linear network that has a VOD offering like a SKY in Western Europe.
Or you could license it to an SVOD a pure SVOD service like Amazon Netflix Hulu Plus et cetera.
And what we basically do is we try to figure out what is the best match for a given piece of programming given its time in its life cycle and given the platform that it's going to be on.
And we're not just trying to optimize – we are trying to optimize the value of the show.
But we have to think about the position of the network or platform that's bidding for the rights and how to really evolve the overall ecosystem as we do it.
So that's basically how we view these things.
In the case of the shows you were mentioning we thought Hulu's ad-supported environment was a better fit for Turner shows on some of their deals and we think that the licensing choices we made on Seinfeld and Friends was the right choice for those.
But Kevin you're the one who did it that understands.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Actually on Seinfeld Sony is the distributor but we agreed with the strategy because it really is as Jeff mentioned a show-by-show decision.
And you have to look at not only where the show is in its life cycle but what the marketplace looks like for that particular show.
So there isn't a one size fits all for when you should go out into SVOD on a particular program because I would use Person of Interest as an example.
Person of Interest in the first cycle of our syndication sale we shared the window with WGN and Netflix.
And so that's an example of where we think that that is an appropriate way to market that particular show to maximize its value.
In Friends and Seinfeld as Jeff mentioned those are very late in their life cycle third cycle for Friends and fourth cycle for Seinfeld.
And it was obviously very opportunistic and a very good economic value for those particular shows.
And so we took them and I think it was the right thing for both of those shows.
Okay thanks.
I have more but I'll come back.
Thanks.
Thanks Michael.
Joe can we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Rich Greenfield from BTIG.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi thanks.
The first question on HBO NOW I realize it is very early in your rollout but I was wondering if you could have any way of giving us a sense of what percentage of subscribers you're seeing come from not in a MVPD bundle.
I assume you have some way of cross-checking who's who and getting some sense of how incremental this is versus people who might be downgrading bundles to take smaller bundles.
Any way of thinking about that would be very helpful.
And then I think Howard I think you had talked about what advertising growth rates looked like a year ago excluding the benefit from the NCAA Tournament or March Madness.
I was wondering.
When you looked at the comment you made about low single digits this quarter is there any way to think about what organically is happening ex the one-time sports event? Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> So Rich it's Richard.
Good morning.
You're absolutely right.
It is a little too early after three weeks to have anything reliable.
But I will tell you that we are seeing absolutely no intrusion into people inside the ecosystem none at all.
And we're very excited by that.
It's all additive.
As we've said from the beginning we always thought that this was going to be an expansion of the pie and that's exactly what it appears to be.
And Rich in terms of the advertising it's really not the same.
Last year was due to a shift in timing.
The timing of the games was the same this year.
So you have to – tell me exactly what you're looking for Rich.
I was just wondering if there was any way to think about how advertising was tracking ex-sports.
The tournament obviously was a huge success both on digital as well as on broadcast.
And I was just wondering if there was any way to think about how much of the performance this quarter was driven by even more advertiser interest in the tournament.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Rich it's John.
I'll take a crack at it.
That's really hard.
That's not really the way we look at it.
And if you look at Q2 which Howard talked about in his proactive remarks we think the core advertising performance across our networks is going to look fairly similar to Q1.
And obviously in Q2 we didn't have the benefit of NCAA March Madness.
We're seeing strong demand continue for the NBA which is a continuation of the strong demand for sports.
And frankly we're seeing solid demand across all of our major entertainment properties.
That's exactly what I was looking for thank you.
Thanks Rich.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question here comes from Mr.
Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks so much.
I think there's a lot of investor focus on syndication so I wanted to continue that discussion.
First in the short term how is Warner's position into the upfront? Do you have any visibility on show pickups at this point and new show take rates? And longer term though you talked about SVOD strategy by show.
But if you look at the syndication market in total given the major programming write-offs at Turner and Viacom TV viewership for reruns seemingly in decline consumers shifting to on-demand Jeff you talk about that a lot.
Investors are wondering whether aggregate syndication values are going to start declining in a meaningful way as traditional networks pull back investment in acquired programming.
Anything on that would be helpful.
Thanks.
I'm going to say I'm starting with no they're going to go up not down.
But Kevin why don't you do the piece (48:14)? Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Thank you a lot of pressure.
What I would say is as far as the upfronts all the pilots are done.
They're in with the networks right now.
We've tested them.
We feel very good about our upfronts – our pilots.
We have 15 of them across all the networks.
We have three DC pilots that we're very proud of.
We're continuing to just have strong DC pilots.
We have Supergirl Legends of Tomorrow and Lucifer on three different networks CBS The CW and FOX.
So that knock on wood I think we feel very good about.
As far as syndication value goes as Jeff said we're continuing to see incredibly healthy demand for the biggest shows.
Obviously I would use The Big Bang Theory as an example of that and why there's continued demand for those types of shows.
They continue to perform extremely well.
And despite cable networks and John can comment on this the expansion of original programming there's still a need for our programming and syndicated product to go in to be able to fill out a 24-hour schedule.
And so we're going to continue to be able to fulfill that need.
Will there be pressure on second and third and fourth tiered shows? Absolutely I think that you will see some pressure on those shows.
But the newer big shows that I think that you've been accustomed from seeing from Warner Bros.
will continue to have healthy healthy domestic syndication value.
And we're not talking about – I don't think your concerns are international because international we've seen incredibly strong growth from our international licensing.
So if your concern is domestic I think you can see some pressure on the second third and fourth tier shows.
I think it's more what makes the first tier shows even more valuable because they're breaking out.
And internationally across the board we're seeing strong growth.
If I might just add you have bidding demand going up from both traditional networks bidding for linear plus VOD exhibition and you have new bidding pressure from VOD players.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think Hulu's announcement that you saw today with AMC and recently with Turner is actually a very good indication of the buoyancy of the SVOD – multiple SVOD players domestically stepping up which is a positive.
Great thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes our next question comes from Michael Morris from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys a couple topics.
First the Verizon custom TV product that was announced can you share whether that's compliant with your agreements with them; and maybe more broadly how you feel about a package or a product like that that includes different packages for different types of networks? And then second of all it seems pretty clear that consumer demand for binge-watching programs continues to grow.
I'm curious how you guys view that and how you think about potentially releasing full seasons of programming at once whether it be HBO or something that would normally go on Turner? Thanks.
We don't think much of the binge strategy for our networks but I'm going to leave you guys to that.
On Verizon I'll start.
John you might want to talk and do it with me.
I guess I'm not going to comment much on Verizon's current situation with some of the other networks other companies not ours.
In the case of ours we feel very good both about our contracts and how to protect our networks.
But more important than that we feel good about really the strength and concentration and reach of our networks because if you look at the Turner networks with the top four networks having the lion's share of Turner's business if you put HBO with that you have five of the most heavily demanded must-carry networks in the world that have been really sought after by everybody that's coming up with these various other packages smaller packages VOD packages whatever it is.
And we think basically whether it's the question of what goes into a video-on-demand package or what goes into a smaller bundle to the extent distributors are able to create packages that are more attractive to consumers given the networks we have we think that's great for both consumers and for our networks.
And that's the reason why over the last many years we were concentrating our efforts on basically making our must-have networks stronger and having more must-see programming rather than launching marginal networks that others have done.
So we've got about 90% of our affiliate fees at Time Warner in five networks and we think they add a lot of value to consumers and have the kind of programming that people love on demand.
That's basically our view whether the question is smaller bundles or VOD packages.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> The only thing I would add is that in the future what you define as a network today in order to be successful you either have to have a strong brand with reach or if you're a niche network you have to have a wildly passionate fan base to drive engagement.
Those networks will survive.
If you have neither of those there's only one word in your future: death.
Don't mince words Kevin.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> Enough said.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael it's Richard.
I would respectfully dissent about the binge dynamic two points.
One if you take a show like The Jinx for example which was an enormously popular quintessential HBO show you would have ruined the entire momentum and excitement about that show had people been able to binge watch it.
Part of the whole dynamic was following that mystery as it evolved.
Secondly on shows like Thrones and True Detective I think there's a lot to be said for having social media and the zeitgeist itself be a part of a continuing conversation over eight weeks 10 weeks 12 weeks and we like that.
We think that's great for the brand.
We think our consumers like that.
If we decided that wasn't the case we've got the shows ready.
We could make them available to binge.
But right now we like laying it out on a week-to-week basis.
And by the way if people decide they want to binge they can save up and binge later in the middle of the season.
So I'm not of the school that there's an overwhelming propensity to binge watch.
I just don't believe it.
As Jack Nicholson said you don't want us to binge.
You don't want to binge.
You can't handle the binging.
Think if Game of Thrones was available all at once.
You don't want that.
Thanks Michael.
Thanks guys.
Joe could we have our next question please? Yes of course.
Our next question come from Jessica Reif Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks I have two topics.
The first is Turner regarding upfront advertising.
I was just wondering how you'll approach this year's market given consistent ratings issues with Nielsen in regards to non-linear viewing and obviously device viewing.
And I guess another element will be programmatic buying and how that affects the upfronts versus actual dollars flowing in but just the upfront headline.
So could you just give us color on you how you guys are thinking about it this year? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Sure Jessica.
Thanks this is John.
I'll start.
So look obviously it's early to discuss with any level of specificity.
But at least starting from a broad perspective the ad market appears to have stabilized compared to what we were looking at in the fourth quarter of last year so I think that's a real positive.
In addition despite the Nielsen ratings challenges we're seeing ratings momentum across most of our big networks; so of course that should help as well.
And we're feeling really good about the programming lineup that we'll be unveiling for advertisers in a few weeks.
And we're going to come to the market for the first time in the history of Turner with our entire portfolio and so we're excited about that.
And we will be unveiling and you'll see new products with an increased focus on data analytics targeting and ROI.
And I thought today's article in The Wall Street Journal was just the early stages of the case that TV is going to be making as it relates to a really vibrant advertising medium.
So we're going to be offering advertisers the ability to integrate data analytics into TV advertising and also to do behavioral targeting.
And while targeting is not new for us it's different now at least for three reasons.
Number one there's significantly more data available than ever before.
Number two it helps us understand our audiences better and how to categorize the audiences into segments that are valuable to advertisers.
And then the third is technology advances enable us to better manage inventory and insert the right ads at the right time to the right audience.
So we're looking forward to unveiling the upfront in a few weeks and you'll see that.
Regarding programmatic I'll speak to it from the network side and maybe Kevin will comment from the studio side.
We're continuing to explore obviously many new advertising models.
That includes programmatic.
On the TV side we're experimenting with a very small amount of our inventory.
And we've got strong controls in place around pricing.
And it's not likely that we're going to be doing programmatic at scale on the TV side in the near term.
At Turner we've got a small number of must-have networks obviously and we don't have a material amount of excess inventory anyway.
So that's the kind of inventory which would more likely get sold programmatically.
And so we'll probably continue to leverage it selectively.
We're doing more audience targeting on TV but let's not confuse that with programmatic.
In digital it's clearly a much bigger opportunity and we're using programmatic a lot more.
And we're going to continue to sell a bigger portion of our digital inventory through programmatic partners and at the same time building out more robust data management capabilities to provide our advertising partners with better audience segmentation and targeting.
And that should allow us to monetize our inventory more effectively.
So let me turn it to Kevin.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> And on the buy side we view programmatic as a big opportunity.
We're focusing on a number of different trials today across a number of different opportunities across the studio.
We think that it could lead to millions of dollars of savings through efficiencies on the digital marketing side.
Obviously it's not as John mentioned something that we're currently exploring on the television side.
Obviously at some point in the future that could also be an opportunity for us to explore as well.
Today we're focusing on digital.
But it really is something that is in the very very near future because these trials so far are showing some really really positive things.
Thanks Jessica.
And then my second question actually was for Richard.
I think Howard said earlier in the call that to the extent that you're successful there would be incremental investment in HBO NOW.
Could you clarify? What areas do you think that you need to maybe invest in more? And are there any benchmarks that you can give us over the next 12 months that we should be looking for to define success for HBO NOW? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> There are no benchmarks that we're prepared to talk about today other than to tell you that I used the phrase decidedly we're out of the gate fast and we are.
On investment quite obviously it's going be marketing.
We want to make the value proposition clear to the consumer.
We want to work with Apple to do that and eventually when that exclusive expires working with new digital partners.
So that is the primary investment.
Obviously there are some additional tech costs but they're not material and we built them into the plan.
The real thing we want to focus on going forward in the second half of the year is marketing our product to the consumer because we think there's a huge audience out there for it and the initial start with Apple makes that very clear.
Thank you.
Thanks Jessica.
Joe we have time for one more question please.
Thank you.
Our next question here comes from John Janedis from Jefferies LLC.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Jeff can you talk a little bit more broadly about the domestic SVOD landscape? It seems like Hulu has been making more of a push based on recent deals with maybe Netflix being less aggressive.
What does the environment look like? How different is Netflix's appetite to license content and is the U.S.
still a growth market for you? I'm not sure.
Yes the U.S.
is a growth market.
The subscription VOD marketplace in the U.S.
is growing and it's strong.
I think you've got more appetite and vigorous programming aims coming in at Hulu Plus.
I think the same is true of Amazon.
I think Netflix is doing a good job and continues to expand its appetite both for domestic originals that they're making and also things that they license.
Overseas you have the same story.
And you can add to that not just the SVOD players like Amazon Netflix et cetera but you can add the – depending on which country pretty strong SVOD platforms coming out from what used to be traditional linear programming.
So what is very clear is that all the TV in the world is going to go on demand and it's going to happen with both the broadband SVOD companies and the traditional TV companies.
All right thank you.
Thank you John.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
Please let us know if you have any questions.
We'll be around for them.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.