Welcome to the Time Warner Incorporated second quarter 2015 earnings call.
My name is Amanda and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's second quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the second quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full-year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
Second today's announcement includes certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for our Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
We had another very strong quarter with revenues increasing 8% to $7.3 billion reflecting growth at all our operating divisions.
We grew our adjusted operating income by 15% to a record $1.9 billion.
Adjusted EPS was up 28%.
And year to date we've returned $2.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
These results reflect the steady progress we're making on our strategic priorities and they put us on track for another year of very attractive financial performance.
As you all know we're committed to delivering industry-leading financial results while investing aggressively to adapt to the rapid changes in the media landscape.
We will continue to help fund those investments through a companywide focus on operational efficiency.
And those investments are what will allow us to capitalize on the growing global opportunities for the very best video content across both the traditional and emerging video ecosystems.
You can see how we're taking advantage of those opportunities in the performance of each of our divisions this quarter.
Let me start with Home Box Office where our unrivaled original programming has never been stronger.
This year HBO and its sister channel Cinemax received a combined 131 Primetime Emmy nominations.
That includes a record of 126 for HBO.
And that marks the 15th year in a row that HBO has received the most nominations of any network.
And it includes nominations for outstanding comedy series for Silicon Valley and Veep and for outstanding drama series for Game of Thrones.
These accolades reflect the excitement we're seeing among HBO subscribers.
Game of Thrones' fifth season set yet another record as the most watched HBO season ever captivating over 20 million viewers each episode.
And three of our acclaimed newcomers from last year Silicon Valley Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and True Detective each returned to strong audiences in their second seasons.
In June we introduced two new hits Ballers and The Brink both of which have already been renewed.
We launched HBO NOW our standalone streaming service in the U.S.
during the second quarter and we're extremely pleased with how well it's been received.
It was the top grossing entertainment app on iTunes in both May and June and we recently extended its distribution to Verizon Amazon and Google.
We'll be adding other platforms soon as well as more traditional distribution partners.
Given the positive early reaction to NOW we are already investing in additional programming to support the service.
For example we think programming from our new multi-platform agreement with sports personality Bill Simmons will be particularly appealing to consumers in an on-demand environment.
At the same time our discussions with the creative community indicate HBO GO and HBO NOW have made the service an even more attractive outlet and you will see additional announcements demonstrating that in the coming months.
In addition to programming we'll be investing even more in marketing to take advantage of the large subscriber opportunity we see in front of us.
We are also in the process of significantly increasing our programming investment at Turner's Entertainment Networks with a focus on more creatively ambitious projects and that's going to further differentiate and strengthen networks that are already leading the industry.
In the second quarter TNT and TBS ranked number one and number two respectively among ad-supported cable networks in primetime with adults 18 to 49.
And including Adult Swim Turner claimed the top three spots in primetime among adults 18 to 34.
Adult Swim also finished as ad-supported cable's number one network in total day among adults 18 to 34 for the 29th consecutive quarter supported by originals like Rick and Morty which just celebrated its second season debut by more than doubling its audience from last season's premiere.
TNT's leading performance in the quarter underscored the importance of our partnership with the NBA and the strength of our on-air talent so we're particularly pleased that the crew of the Emmy award-winning Inside the NBA has re-upped with Turner for the duration of our new NBA agreement.
Over time we're confident that refreshing our brands and our content at TBS and TNT will result in the same kind of renaissance we're seeing at Cartoon Network and CNN.
Cartoon Network grew total day ratings among kids 6 to 11 by double digits and it was the only major kids' network to grow in the quarter overtaking Nickelodeon as the number two network in that demo for the first time in its history.
At CNN primetime viewership in its key 25-to-54 demo grew 25% in the quarter and it continued to age down while our competitors aged up.
CNN is also building on its lead in digital.
In June CNN.com streamed 212 million videos.
That's a record for the site and it made it the news leader in digital video for the second straight month ahead of Buzzfeed and Yahoo! News.
Turner and Warner Bros.
are also making progress on their global kids strategy.
Together they recently announced plans to produce close to 450 half-hours of original animated content for Turner's kids networks and to make greater use of Warner's iconic animation library globally.
In addition to making Boomerang a global flanker brand for Cartoon Network this will provide a new platform for Warner's to reinvigorate classic characters and to create new kids franchises and it's a great example of the natural collaboration taking place across the company.
We're upgrading not just our content but also our marketing partners' ability to utilize it effectively.
At this year's upfront we announced the new Turner Data Cloud which provides marketers a greatly enhanced ability to target audiences across our linear and digital properties.
And our innovative advertising products were critical to Turner garnering price increases at the very top of the industry.
Warner Bros.
also had a strong performance in this year's upfront with 62 programs slated for the upcoming television season.
Warner's lineup included 29 shows on broadcast primetime with at least two series on each network.
That includes a record 20 returning shows and it makes Warner's the top supplier of broadcast series again this year.
We all know Warner's is the gold standard in television and film production but its growing video game business is also an industry leader.
For the first half of the year Warner ranked as the top video game publisher in North America and had the two biggest releases in Batman: Arkham Knight and Mortal Kombat X.
We're looking to build on that momentum with next month's release of LEGO Dimensions our entry into the toys-to-life category.
What you've seen across Warner which is also happening throughout our company is how the best IP can be monetized across many different platforms both inside and beyond traditional ecosystems.
For example DC content is the basis for seven shows scheduled to air in the upcoming season including returning hits like The Flash and Gotham and new shows such as Supergirl.
It's also the basis for our biggest games franchise and new ventures like DC's Super Hero Girls the toys and digital content partnership we recently announced with Mattel.
Plus I can't resist pointing out we still have a nice business selling actual comic books.
And of course there are the films.
At last month's Comic-Con the new trailer for Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice generated the most buzz of any upcoming film both inside the convention halls and on social media and DC's Suicide Squad was not far behind.
Those films don't come out until 2016 but they provide a sense as to why we have so much confidence in our slate for the next year and many years to come.
So a year after the Time Inc.
spinoff I'm really pleased with how we're executing our strategy to take advantage of the growing opportunities we see both within and beyond the traditional video ecosystem.
At the same time we recognize the pace of change in our industry is accelerating.
And that means we're going to have to move even faster to ensure we have the best content provide the best possible consumer experience and can monetize our viewership effectively across a wide variety of platforms and geographies all while maintaining our focus on operational efficiency.
So in the coming months and years you'll see us investing aggressively to stay ahead of the changes in our industry and capitalize on an environment where the biggest hits networks and brands are taking share.
With our global scale and strong brands I'm confident we're well positioned for that environment and that we can both meet our strategic objectives and continue to deliver industry-leading financial results.
With that let me turn it over to Howard.
Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website starting with consolidated results.
Halfway through the year we're really pleased with our execution to date.
In the first half we grew adjusted operating income 13% and adjusted EPS 25%.
And we did that while making progress on our strategic objectives and investing aggressively for future growth.
In the second quarter revenue was up a very healthy 8%.
And adjusted operating income rose 15% to $1.9 billion a record quarterly profit.
And excluding a drag of approximately 400 basis points from FX revenue growth would have been 12%.
In addition to strong revenue growth adjusted operating income margins expanded more than 150 basis points.
And that's despite 6% growth in total expenses primarily from increased investments in content and marketing.
Moving forward we'll remain disciplined on overhead and other non-programming-related spending to help fund investments that will strengthen our competitive position and drive future growth.
Moving down the income statement adjusted EPS grew 28% in the quarter.
So once again we were able to grow adjusted EPS even faster than adjusted operating income.
That was helped by our ongoing share repurchase program and a lower effective tax rate in the quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased over $900 million in shares and paid close to $300 million in dividends.
So year to date we've returned over $2.6 billion to shareholders.
And this morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
That implies mid-teens growth in adjusted EPS when excluding the programming and restructuring charges and tax matters from the second half of 2014 and that's despite a material drag from a stronger U.S.
dollar that we have discussed with you previously.
So we feel really good about how we're operating and remain focused on executing our strategy to drive continued growth longer term.
Now turning to the segment highlights I'll begin at Turner where we posted very strong profit growth of 20%.
Subscription revenues increased 2% or 6% excluding the impact of FX.
Domestic subscription revenue grew 4% consistent with the first quarter.
Absent a drag of approximately 20 percentage points from FX international subscription revenue was up low double digits.
And on that basis we continue to see the healthiest trends in Latin America.
Looking to the third quarter we expect a negative impact of approximately 500 basis points on total subscription revenue growth as a result of FX and the benefit from certain contractual settlements in the third quarter of 2014.
However we expect underlying domestic subscriber trends to be consistent with the first half of the year and remain on track for domestic sub revenue growth to accelerate into the teens in 2016 and 2017.
Moving on advertising declined 1% but excluding FX grew a little more than 1%.
That was a bit below our initial expectations largely due to airing fewer NBA playoff games than anticipated.
In total the impact from foreign exchange fewer NBA games and the absence of NASCAR weighed on growth by close to 500 basis points in the quarter.
Domestic advertising grew slightly in the quarter.
International advertising grew low single digits when excluding an FX drag of over 18% and the benefit from the consolidation of our sports network in Brazil and that was despite difficult comparisons in Latin America due to the impact of the World Cup last year.
Looking ahead to the third quarter scatter pricing is currently pacing up high single to low double digits.
The ratings at our entertainment networks will likely offset that benefit.
We also expect a drag of over 400 basis points on advertising from the combination of foreign exchange and the absence of NASCAR programming.
As a result we anticipate total advertising revenue to be down modestly.
Content and other revenues increased close to 50% in the quarter and that was boosted by our deal with Hulu which is a great example of how we can benefit from our increased investment in and ownership of original programming.
Adjusted operating income was up 20% with margins expanding close to 600 basis points.
That was helped by a 6% decline in total expenses including lower programming costs.
Programming expenses were down 9% in the quarter.
That was largely due to the absence of NASCAR programming as well as lower acquired programming costs.
As we discussed with you previously we are investing in new content that better fits our refreshed programming strategy at TNT and TBS.
The ramp in that programming will start to show up in the fourth quarter of this year.
Taking that into account and the absence of NASCAR programming in the third quarter we anticipate that programming cost growth will be heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were essentially flat in the quarter.
But excluding a reversal of an accrued contingency in the second quarter of last year SG&amp;A would have been down mid-single digits.
And that reflects our continued focus on cost efficiencies and savings from last year's restructuring actions.
So overall Turner is executing really well and is making great progress on its strategic initiatives.
And we remain on track to deliver strong growth and adjusted operating income in 2015 while continuing to make the investments necessary to position us for strong growth over the long term.
Turning now to HBO where we are investing significantly to take advantage of the large global opportunity we see for premium services domestically subscription revenue growth remained in the mid-single digits despite very attractive sub growth.
Consistent with recent quarters subscription revenue growth has been limited by a shift toward non-revenue generating subs.
Over time we expect to better monetize those subscribers which should help drive an acceleration in domestic subscription revenue growth.
Similarly we anticipate HBO NOW will be a more material contributor to subscription revenue growth over time.
We're pleased with the initial consumer response to the service but we saw only a modest benefit to the sub revenue in the second quarter due to the 30-day free trial period for new subscribers.
Looking ahead to the third quarter we expect to benefit from a full quarter of paying subs on HBO NOW.
And as Jeff mentioned HBO NOW recently launched on Amazon Google and Verizon which should contribute more meaningfully to subscription revenue growth later in the year.
Moving on content and other revenues were down 7% in the quarter due in part to difficult comparisons with our home entertainment releases.
In the quarter we recognized a comparable amount of revenues from our licensing agreement with Amazon as we did in the year-ago quarter while agreeing to expand our relationship to include the distribution of HBO NOW.
At our international networks including unconsolidated JVs we continue to see good subscriber growth though revenue declined due to foreign currency movements and the transfer of HBO's basic service in India to Turner.
Adjusted operating income fell 8% in the quarter as we made significant investments in marketing and technology to support the launch of HBO NOW.
And given our plan to continue investing in customer acquisition we expect HBO NOW to generate losses for the remainder of this year and that's typical for an early-stage subscriber business.
Even so we're on track for another good year of adjusted operating income growth as we anticipate revenue trends to improve in the second half of the year.
And our early experience suggests that HBO NOW will be a highly profitable revenue stream for us over time.
Moving on to Warner Bros.
which posted a record second quarter growing revenue 15% and adjusted operating income 46% and that's despite a significant drag from foreign exchange.
These results underscore our growing ability to monetize the best IP across a wide variety of platforms.
The biggest growth driver was our games business which posted its best quarter ever led by the strong performance of franchise releases Batman: Arkham Knight and Mortal Kombat X.
Games revenue more than tripled passing $0.5 billion in the second quarter alone.
And with the great IP at Warner's disposal we remain optimistic about the long-term opportunity for this business.
On the TV side revenue increased over 20% due to strong growth in licensing fees.
That growth included the second cycle syndication of The Big Bang Theory the SVOD licensing of Seinfeld and an international license of Friends all of which highlight the increasing value of hit content.
In our theatrical business revenues declined in the quarter despite modest growth from our film releases.
And that was a result of lower TV licensing of films and the timing of the home entertainment release of the latest installment of The Hobbit franchise.
Across theatrical and TV home entertainment revenue was down 18%.
That was due to the timing of the home entertainment release I just mentioned and softness in catalog.
Even with that difficult comparison EST revenue growth remained healthy increasing close to 20%.
And EST growth for the industry was close to 30% helping offset a decline in physical sales that took consumer spending across the broader home entertainment industry down mid-single digits in the quarter.
So overall Warner Bros.
had a terrific quarter and is on pace for very attractive growth and a record year of adjusted operating income in 2015.
And with a great theatrical slate and momentum at our TV and games businesses we're confident we can continue to drive solid growth in the coming years.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled $1.8 billion in the first half.
That's down from a year ago due to a significant swing in working capital but is still very healthy conversion.
Growth in working capital reflects higher receivables from increased games and content revenues the timing of collections severance payments related to last year's restructuring initiatives and increased content investments across our divisions.
Cash interest increased modestly as a result of the additional debt we issued last year.
And our cash taxes declined primarily due to favorable tax legislation that was passed late in 2014.
Looking ahead we continue to expect working capital to be a more significant use of cash for the full year than it was in 2014 and that is mainly due to strong syndication revenues at Warner's and severance payments related to the restructuring actions taken in 2014.
Despite that we anticipate 2015 will be another healthy year for free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the second quarter with $20.7 billion of net debt up nearly $800 million from the end of 2015.
That's largely due to our ongoing commitment to direct shareholder returns.
In the first half of the year we returned a total of $2.4 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Since our last call we took advantage of favorable market conditions to strengthen our balance sheet by issuing $2.9 billion of long-term debt at attractive rates.
That included our first euro-denominated debt offering which will act as a natural hedge to the euro-denominated assets on our balance sheet.
We also retired $1.7 billion of debt as a result of the maturity of a tender offer we made for higher-priced debt and we're in the process of redeeming the remaining $300 million of that series of debt.
Our net leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was approximately three times.
However excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from the second half of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.64 times slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
We continue to believe that leverage target provides us the flexibility to invest in our businesses engage in strategic M&amp;A and provide direct returns to shareholders while at the same time optimizing our cost of capital and providing strong access to the capital markets in a variety of macroeconomic scenarios.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We had a great first half of the year and we're very pleased with the progress we're making across our businesses.
That progress is evident in our results to date and our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS of $4.60 to $4.70 which we have reaffirmed this morning.
As we've discussed with you previously that includes a foreign exchange headwind of approximately $0.40 based on current rates.
Excluding that FX headwind our outlook would imply over 20% growth off last year's base of $4.15.
That outlook also includes ongoing investments at our network businesses in areas such as programming marketing and technology to strengthen our position within the rapidly changing ecosystem and those investments will be heavily weighted toward the back half of this year.
At Turner we'll begin ramping up our content investments resulting in significantly higher programming costs and associated marketing expenses starting in the fourth quarter.
Meanwhile at HBO we intend to continue investing in customer acquisition and technology for HBO NOW as we expand distribution and position the product for long-term success.
At Warner's we have challenging theatrical comparisons in the second half of the year.
Still we anticipate healthy growth in the third quarter due to the syndication of Two Broke Girls and Person of Interest as well as the continued benefit from our strong games slate.
Taking the timing of our investment spending into account we expect our growth in adjusted EPS will slow materially in the back half of the year.
Even so we are on track for another year of very attractive growth in adjusted EPS.
And we believe the investments we're making in high-quality content and the development of new business models will position us for accelerating growth in the future.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Amanda can you please open it up to Q&amp;A? I'd like to remind everybody to please limit yourself to one or two questions so we can get to more people.
Amanda? Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
Your line is open please go ahead.
Thank you.
I have two one for Richard and one for Howard.
Richard let me ask you about international.
Over the past few months as Netflix has rolled out into international markets there was a groundswell of opinion that thinks they can reach over 100 million subscribers in five years' time.
Are those projections close to being right? And I'm going to ask you later to comment on those projections.
What does HBO need to do to benefit from the international opportunity and when can you roll out HBO NOW overseas to actually take advantage of what could be a gigantic market? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> We like our international strategy a lot Michael.
As you know we have three tiers to it our operating networks in 60 countries our licensing deals in over 150 markets and our home of HBO deals.
And we've seen – as the value of content increases we've seen our profits increase.
Nordics has been a very interesting case study for us though because it shows the power of a multilateral approach.
We've grown OTT subs in Nordic and we've grown our linear business.
So we look at that and we will be making announcements in the near future about new OTT businesses.
But we're going to take it on a case-by-case basis.
We're going to follow the money and we're going to focus on profits as we always have done.
Okay let me ask one for Howard.
As you've known two of your peers have reduced their public guidance for a variety of reasons including foreign exchange advertising subscriber growth.
Do you still feel comfortable about the guidance you gave on EPS in 2016 and 2018? You gave it back in October but I wonder.
Have things changed enough for you to update the guidance? You know what Michael I appreciate the question and we are aware of some of the trends that you just talked about.
But unlike our annual outlook we don't change our update on long-term targets from quarter to quarter.
We're very pleased about how we're operating across all of our businesses and you can see that from the strong results we generated in the first half of this year.
And as we typically do we're going to provide greater specificity on our long-term outlook at year end.
Thanks Michael.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question is from Alexia Quadrani from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you very much.
My question is on really your outlook for a step up in affiliate revenue growth in 2016 now that you've completed or you're in the process of completing most of your renewals.
I guess what assumptions do you have in there in terms of sub declines or just sub outlooks in general? And have you seen acceleration in declines I guess since you initially gave that guidance a little while ago? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Alexia it's John.
So listen again I appreciate the question.
I think if you go back to when we started to talk about domestic subscription revenue growth expectations we've been remarkably on track.
And I would say that we're still very very much on track from our original expectations.
So last year we grew domestic subscriber revenue high single digits.
This year we expected that to moderate somewhat into mid-single digits and I fully expect we'll be able to hit that.
And then in 2016 and then again in 2017 we fully expect that to accelerate well into the teens.
And against that backdrop we have seen some modest unit declines in the U.S.
but I would say that that trend has been in existence and ongoing now for some time.
We have not seen any acceleration in those declines.
And those declines have not been overly material.
And of course that trend has really been in front of our inclusion in some of these more economically viable or skinny packages which we think over time as they become a little bit more mature might have the ability to stabilize the overall unit trends and possibly even return it to growth over time as we think the distributors' ability to offer more economically but very attractive bundles to that element of the demand is only a positive thing.
And of course we at Turner have the type of networks that we think will be overly represented in those type of bundles.
So we think the trends have been in existence for some time.
There has been no acceleration of any negative trends.
And we're still really positive and optimistic about what the future holds.
Alexia this is Jeff.
I just want to add.
I think everything John said and if you consider to the extent skinny bundles or smaller bundles become more prevalent and Turner will be in those that's a good thing for HBO as well.
Okay just a quick follow-up if I may.
Thank you for all the color you guys gave earlier in terms of your leverage targets and free cash flow.
One of your peers this morning mentioned that the rating agencies are weighing on the media industry more heavily now and getting a bit more strict in terms of the targets.
Have you experienced that and does that change any of your priorities for use of cash? Are you talking about leverage ratios Alexia? Yes are the ratings agencies coming in a bit harder on you guys maybe putting you guys under a bit more scrutiny? No I think we've had a pretty consistent process working with the rating agencies over time and we are in a good spot and feel confident about the leverage structure we have.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Alexia.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question comes from Omar Sheikh from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone a question for Richard first of all on HBO NOW.
I hear what you say on the comments you made on the level of demand.
I wondered if you might be able to just give us an idea of what kind of programming you're adding to the NOW product.
And are you seeing any change in the MVPD base? Is it primarily the pro bono (34:37) universe you're taking subs from? Some color on that will be very helpful.
And then a question for Howard possibly on the Turner programming expense growth for this year.
You've called out some of the investment that you'll be making and the phasing of that in quarters.
But I wonder whether you could just update us on your full-year expectations for programming expense growth this year.
Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Omar hi it's Richard.
Thank you for the question.
Look it's obviously early days but we are very excited by what we've seen with HBO NOW right out of the gate.
We've just added as you know Amazon and Google to Apple.
You'll see other products added in the near future.
And everything we're seeing both from sampling and from subscriber satisfaction has exceeded our expectations.
With regard to any kind of cannibalization I can tell you as we predicted and as our research indicated we've seen less than 1% of HBO subs leave the bundle to go get HBO NOW which is exactly what we suspected was going to happen.
So while it's very early we feel very good about it and we think HBO NOW will be very profitable in the coming quarters.
Omar it's Howard.
In terms of the programming expense we do expect on a full-year basis to be up modestly for the year.
But as I indicated in my prepared remarks it's going to be heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
And I can let John provide any other insight on that.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Listen thanks for the question.
We've been expecting for some time that on average in any given year we expect to hold down programming cost growth to on average no more than high single digits.
And so clearly in some years it will be higher; in some years it will be lower.
This year in 2015 it will be a year as Howard just said with the expectation of growth only in the low single digits that it will be lower than the average.
In part that's due to the loss of NASCAR and before some of the new sports deals kick in in future years.
So for example programming costs in Q3 will probably be down again because of the absence of NASCAR.
In the fourth quarter I think we're currently planning on doubling the number of original series episodes compared to a year ago.
And they'll be a lot more heavily weighted to the scripted side versus non-scripted where it was a year ago too so the average cost per episode will be higher.
But we're really excited about the programming cycle that we're going to be beginning to enter which should be over a prolonged period.
So we think that that investment is very smart it's wise and it's going to be and will remain very much in control.
Perfect thanks very much.
Thanks Omar.
Amanda can we have the next question please? Our next question is from Doug Mitchelson from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much a couple topics for me as well.
I think first Richard and Jeff I was just hoping you'd expound on what you've learned so far with the HBO NOW launch in the U.S.
I don't know if there's any contrast with what you've seen so far in the U.S.
versus your experience in the Nordics which you highlighted has nice traction now with the conversion rate you're seeing from free app downloads to paid subs.
And any clarity or quantification to your willingness to spend on incremental marketing and programming that you discussed in your formal remarks? That's the first topic.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Look I think what's clear to us is we have to make clear to first the low-hanging fruit which is the 10.7 million broadband-only subscribers what HBO NOW is how much value is in there 3 000 hours of library all of our movie output and that is part of the marketing investment that we're going to make.
The good news is that it's pretty clear once people see the value as we explain it to them of what's in the HBO NOW package and what kind of versatility it provides them they are very very responsive to it.
So we need to make that investment going forward that marketing investment going forward so we can drive profits in HBO NOW and that's what we plan to do.
Richard I guess I'm trying to figure out whether that's a pretty efficient digital spend because you're talking app downloads or whether you actually pursue traditional marketing highlighting your programming because then it helps both HBO and HBO NOW.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's a little bit of both.
The spend is going to be both digital and in traditional television.
But quite obviously when we're selling HBO NOW and all the brand components of it it also has a certain resonance for the brand itself.
And remember not only do we see a huge opportunity in the 10.7 million broadband-only homes; that is the low-hanging fruit.
But as we've said before there are 70 million people in the ecosystem that don't subscribe to HBO.
We want to go after that market as well with our partners.
And that's why we were very excited last week to see Verizon Wireless sign up for HBO NOW.
We think that's going to be followed by other distributors doing it.
It's a huge opportunity for them to grow their businesses.
And as I said earlier less than 1% of the linear subscribers have left to go get HBO NOW.
So we see this as additive for our partners in the traditional business and we want to continue to drive that point because there's gold in the hills for them too.
And Richard anything you want to offer for us on sub levels or conversion rate from free to paid? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> A little too early to do that I think but stay tuned.
All right this will be quick.
Howard or Jeff just let me try another way because I think not reaffirming longer-term guidance can be perceived negatively.
Can you talk about what trends you're seeing that are more positive or more negative versus what you were expecting last October so perhaps investors can add up for themselves whether you're tracking ahead or behind the long-term guidance? I know John already indicated if I heard him right no material change in affiliate fee revenues.
Are there any other puts or takes that you would highlight at this point? Doug there are a lot of things out there that we're seeing.
There are some positive and some negative.
You did hear us talk about the sub trends.
We're very aware of the advertising profit.
Look we've made some pretty good progress on the initiatives that we talked about last year as well.
So again it comes back to the fact that we'll give an update when we get closer to year end hopefully year end next year.
Other positive trends you've got very positive demand trends across the world for both content sales episode shows movies and for networks and that's a huge positive trend.
And you're seeing it in sub counts across the global environment.
You're seeing it in increased buying pressure pricing et cetera for content whether it's in first-run whether it's in syndication or whether it's in SVOD.
In fact all those things support each other.
And so what you see everybody talks a lot about for example SVOD or Netflix internationally.
That's fine that's good but what that does is it leads to increased demand from other SVOD services.
It leads to increased demand from other incumbent networks all over the world and those are pretty positive.
I think we mentioned a number of things in the prepared remarks on overcoming FX.
And I think the way you opened your question is not something we totally agree with.
The timing is such we're not going to make specific statements every quarter on very long-term guidance.
Things are going very well for us.
If you look at 2015 this year you had headwinds in foreign exchange of about $0.40 and yet here we are pulling in an earnings growth that essentially takes that into account.
I think we all expect just picking that FX as an ongoing situation for next year but if you look at what we've done this year that indicates actually from an operating point of view we're ahead of the plan that we gave you.
So I'm not going to go farther because we have decisions to make about what we do year by year.
Richard Howard Jeff thanks so much.
Thanks Doug.
Amanda next question please.
Our next question is from Michael Morris from Guggenheim Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys two questions.
One you significantly increased I think the amount of content you made available on a stacked in-season basis to Comcast.
Can you talk about why you did that based on what you saw in the past? What are the trends that you're seeing and what's your expectation for how you can capture incremental economics from making that available whether it's on the affiliate side the ad side or both? And then second with respect to the NBA this season I think the NBA is going to make out-of-market games available à la carte.
And it's not on television it's via broadband.
But still it is a step forward in people getting games.
How do you think about that product relative to the amount that you're investing in the national NBA contract? Thanks.
John will do the NBA but can you go back? Are you asking about stacking rights and the extent of stacking rights from either a network like Turner or from Warner Bros.? What was your question? So I think what I understand is that Turner has made in-season stacked rights more broadly available to Comcast in the coming year.
And there's a debate on whether that can cannibalize audience in the C3 window and therefore hurt your advertising whether you can capture more advertising and then of course whether or not you can capture and share in the value that the consumer gets through their payment to Comcast or other distributors.
We can speculate on that but I'd rather hear from you why you're doing it and what you see.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the question Mike.
I'll speak for Turner.
Maybe Kevin can comment from the Warner's side.
We at Turner have now for some time been very very much in favor of granting in-season stacking rights to distributors and affiliates for a number of reasons.
The first is we want to make sure that with respect to the original programming that we have on the network that we're encouraging people who want to view these shows on a delayed basis that they can come in in the middle of the season and catch up.
And we think it increases the probability of having successful shows and will drive overall viewership not only for the shows that are stacked but also the shows later on in the season that are being viewed live.
So we think that that can help the advertising business for the live linear feed.
And we also think Comcast for example probably the furthest along in the development of dynamic ad insertion we think dynamic ad insertion is a potential huge opportunity for us as network owners and for the industry at large as we think that delayed viewing as a currency will grow increasingly important over time.
So we intend to offer stacking rights on all the shows that we own and get rights for and we think it's just a really really smart thing to do.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think you can make – this is Kevin.
I think you can make the argument as John just did that it helps build the audience that it actually increases viewing in seasons two three four and five.
And I think from our perspective there's no diminution in the back-end value of programs that have stacking rights.
And therefore between Warner Bros.
and Turner we're licensing those rights over to Turner on every show we do with them.
With regard to the NBA this isn't anything new.
This is something that they announced when we announced the new deal which we at Turner were very much in favor of with respect to the NBA having the rights to do this.
We love the partnership that we have with the NBA.
We love the long-term visibility and sustainability that we have with respect to the rights.
But I think it's really really important to understand that the games that will appear on our networks are exclusive to our networks.
So you will not be seeing those games appear anywhere else other than on TNT.
And of course we're also in the business with the NBA on our digital businesses and we're a profit participant in that as well.
So I think what you're referring to is a reasonably limited out-of-market and I think it might even be potentially just a mobile product.
So we think for certain real basketball enthusiasts that will be particularly interesting but I don't necessarily believe it's going to be a mainstream product.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Michael.
Amanda can we have our next question please? Our next question is from David Bank from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks very much for taking my question.
I guess I wanted to follow up on your comments earlier on the Turner Data Cloud and I guess probably more specifically for John what he and David [Levy] are doing in terms of their interest for ad tech at the Turner platform.
What kind of investments are you making? How are you thinking about it dynamic ad insertion as well as non-linear platforms? How do you see ad tech as a long-term value driver and how are you approaching it? Thank you.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thanks David.
Listen this is another area where we see huge opportunity going forward.
And I have to say this is an area – we're talking a lot about the impact that technology is having on consumption.
But I think technology is moving so quickly and it's going to have a dramatically positive impact on the efficacy of advertising on TV.
So you're right in the sense that we are making investments to strengthen our overall technology platform.
And you saw us introduce a number of advanced advertising products at this year's upfront a few months ago whether it's Targeting Now which allows an advertiser to optimize across TNT and TBS or a product called Audience Now which allows them to optimize across all Turner networks with audience guarantees.
So we're highly confident we're going to be able to more efficiently manage and monetize all of our inventory across all of Turner.
And it's one of the reasons why we wanted to present all of Turner in one meeting at the upfront because of the strength and the breadth of our brands.
We have a lot to learn as we move forward.
We're working with some of our biggest partners and we're roughly using 20% of our inventory for targeting but that's going to dramatically ramp in the future.
We're investing in technology.
We're investing in data.
We've come a long way over the last year.
And I think a lot of the capabilities that so-called digital companies have had an advantage of over TV are going to be eliminated as TV can not only provide targeting and increased reach and relevance but also in a very very immersive experience with long-form video that's professionally produced.
So I think we're in the very very early stages of seeing TV make a dramatic comeback on the attractiveness of advertising.
Have you seen – as you took Targeting Now into the marketplace at the upfront is there a way to quantify the upside on CPMs that you're seeing from beginning to monetize this stuff? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> It's an easy question difficult to answer because it depends flight by flight.
But I think even in the upfront itself we've announced for those advertisers that we've run campaigns for that we've seen double-digit lifts in sales.
And that at the end of the day is what's really important is advertisers selling product.
Thanks very much.
Thanks David.
Amanda could we have our next question please? Our next question is from Ben Swinburne from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you good morning.
I have two questions.
Kevin can you talk about the age-old debate about Warner's position selling to the broadcasters? I think this year you guys actually saw some of your big customers own more of their own shows.
And I think there's some discussion in the market whether that's a structural change in the trajectory.
Warner has been really well positioned as an independent.
When you look at it do you think the world is changing more vertical integration or is this just a blip in the trend line? And then I have a follow-up for Richard.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> I think that we've seen this go up and down since the change in the Fin-Syn [Financial Interest and Syndication] rules over time.
This is not a new concept with the networks wanting to own more and more of their programming.
But I think the key statistic that I would ask you to look at is for us is returning shows.
And this year we have more returning shows in 20 than in the history of Warner Bros.
So while we may not have sold as many shows into the marketplace as we would have typically have done we have more shows coming back than ever.
The pressure is always going to be on us to maintain our level of creative excellence.
But as we look at last year when we had two of the most successful shows in The Flash and Gotham we feel really good about our position in the marketplace our relationships with the key writer-producers.
That maintains our ability to be able to sell to every network.
We're very proud of the fact that we have at least two shows on every single network.
And as I said we have more shows coming back than ever.
That makes sense.
And then for Richard and I don't know Jeff if you want to answer as well when you scenario plan out HBO over the long term do you ever think about what a significant increase in content investment would do globally to the business? In other words I think you spend about $2 billion a year.
Is there a business model where that number doubles and you go big global more direct to consumer? Is there enough content out there to make it worth that kind of investment? I realize you have guidance so you've got to work through all those pieces.
But I'm just wondering given how rapidly the world is changing do you ever think about what HBO could do if there's an opportunity to just get much more aggressive on the content side to build the long-term value of the business? I'd be curious if you have any comments there.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> We're always thinking about content opportunities and it's one of the reasons internationally why we've invested a lot more in content both in Latin America and Asia and with our partners.
And remember some of our content for our international business like in Nordic is joined with other people's content that helps enhance the brand.
As far as our content spend here I like our mix a lot.
I think across genres you just saw 126 Emmy nominations which one of the most important things about that is that it crossed different genres documentaries mini-series series half-hours hours.
So I like our spend.
We're constantly looking at what opportunities there are.
As I've said over and over again and I think it's true it's not that more is better only better is better.
And so we want to make sure that we're making the investment that's going to elevate the brand and that's going to continue to make an HBO subscription a must-have for people so that's how we think at it.
Let me add a little because I join Richard in HBO from the past.
I don't think there's a shortage of content on HBO right now.
If you look at the amount of original series original programming on HBO there's more than in any other SVOD service in the world by a wide margin.
That's before you say that there's also a first-run movie supply on HBO.
That's a tremendous part.
Richard you've said it's how much what percent? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's over 70% of it.
So you've got an SVOD service that's digital global it's called HBO it's got the most original programming.
It's the only one with current movies so it's got a big content advantage over most of the other alternatives.
The next thing if you start looking at sub growth at HBO you have the fact that some of the distributors have twice the penetration of other distributors.
That has nothing to do with content.
That has to do with marketing selling packaging making things available to consumers both here and around the world in a way that's affordable to them that has a good VOD interface for them.
That is equally true of basic cable which has a tremendous content advantage.
If you look at the original shows or the hit acquired shows on channels like TBS TNT FX USA AMC it's a fantastic array of programming and all it needs is to be on-demand.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Amanda I think we have time for one last question.
Yes sir.
Our final question comes from the line of Marci Ryvicker from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
I actually have a really easy one for you.
You mentioned in your opening remarks that HBO India is being transferred to Turner.
Is there a reason for that? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> That's not true.
It's the management of it.
It's just scale.
It's just scale.
It's just we're co-marketing it and co-distributing -- Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> It's to be more efficient with our resources and management and its scale in the marketplace.
Exactly.
And so what's the financial impact between the two segments? Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> I don't know off the top of my head.
I don't think it's over -- Howard do you know? It's low tens of millions of dollars over the course of the year against HBO.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Marci.
Thanks Amanda.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
We look forward to hearing your questions in the coming days as well.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does include the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.