Welcome to the Time Warner Inc.
third quarter 2015 earnings call.
My name is Ashley and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Michael Kopelman Senior Vice President-Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kopelman you may begin.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Time Warner's third quarter earnings conference call.
This morning we issued two press releases one detailing our results for the third quarter and the other reaffirming our 2015 full year business outlook.
Before we begin there are two items I need to cover.
First we refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Schedules setting out reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our earnings release and trending schedules.
These reconciliations are available on our website at www.timewarner.com/investors.
Reconciliations of our expected future financial performance are also included in the business outlook release that's available on our website.
Second today's announcements include certain forward-looking statements which are based on management's current expectations.
Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by these statements due to various factors.
These factors are discussed in detail in Time Warner's SEC filings including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Time Warner is under no obligation and in fact expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I will now turn the call over to Jeff Bewkes Time Warner's Chairman and CEO who will be followed by Howard Averill Time Warner's CFO.
After their prepared remarks our divisional CEOs John Martin Richard Plepler and Kevin Tsujihara will join us for our Q&amp;A session.
Jeff? Thanks Mike and thanks everyone for listening in this morning.
As you can see from our results we had another very good quarter.
Revenues increased 5% $6.6 billion.
We posted strong growth in adjusted operating income which totaled $1.8 billion.
That translated into adjusted EPS of $1.25 per share.
That's a record third quarter for the company.
And we returned over $1.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
This continues our track record of delivering industry-leading performance while also positioning the company for a world where viewers consume an increasing amount of content on demand and on multiple platforms and devices.
And that's a world in which brands need to thrive both inside and outside the traditional TV ecosystem.
We've been doing that by leveraging our strong brands global scale and distinctive IP to produce content that resonates deeply with consumers and will become even more valuable on this environment.
We've also been a leader in enhancing the value of the traditional TV bundle for consumers making more content available on demand and on a growing array of devices.
More recently we've been strategically expanding outside the traditional TV ecosystem to tap into new growth opportunities and we're executing these strategies across the globe while at the same time remaining laser-focused on operational and capital efficiency.
The result has been a total shareholder return of 180% since the beginning of 2008 well above our peer average and more than double the S&amp;P 500.
To continue performing at those levels in the future however it's critical that we push on the accelerator because every day it becomes clearer that the trends we anticipated are happening and in some ways they're happening even faster than we expected.
These changes create challenges for our business but they also produce many opportunities for us.
And our goal is to use our unmatched combination of scale brands and distinctive IP to capitalize on these trends so that our businesses are even more relevant more competitive and profitable five to 10 years from now than they are today.
That means moving even more aggressively to execute our strategy by making investments for the long run.
This is a formative time in media; a time when industry leaders for the next decade and beyond are being established.
And I believe those companies with the resources and will to invest will thrive and those that don't will falter.
So it's important our primary focus be on long-term competitive position and growth rather than near-term profitability.
So with that as a background I'd like to provide an update on our 2016 financial targets.
We have not yet finished our budget and long range planning process but we're far enough along that we can identify and size some changes to our expectations that together suggest adjusted EPS is more likely to be around $5.25 next year.
I'll give you some context on those changes and Howard will provide more detail in his remarks.
But at current rates we estimate the impact of foreign exchange on next year would be similar to this year.
That's around $0.50 per share accounting for the significant majority of the change in our expectations.
Beyond FX movements there are areas where we've outperformed our expectation and other areas that have been more challenging.
More important we have also identified additional investments and other key decisions that will weigh on earnings in the near term but that we think will drive long-term growth.
Programming remains by far the most significant area of investment for the company.
As you all know we have plans to invest aggressively in content in 2016 and beyond.
And an increasing part of that investment will be directed towards brands and IP that we think will resonate with consumers on new platforms.
HBO's investments in John Stewart Bill Simmons Sesame Street and its expanded VICE relationship are all great examples.
Turner's partnership with WME | IMG to form an e-sports league that will air on TBS is another example and there are many more to come.
But having great content is no longer enough.
Content has become just one element of the broader consumer experience.
And while we are living in the golden age of television programming for many consumers the television viewing experience is stuck in the Bronze Age.
So we're stepping up our investment and providing the best possible consumer experiences.
For instance we plan to increase our investments in new digital products and infrastructure so that we can meet consumer demand for video outside traditional TV and compete effectively across platforms.
That includes new broadband delivered initiatives targeted at millennials such as HBO NOW CNN's start up Great Big Story and TBS's new digital studio Super Deluxe.
It also includes investments like Turner's majority stake in iStreamPlanet a leading platform for live streaming.
And we'll continue to build out data and analytics capabilities both as the engine of our industry leading advanced advertising product and to inform our marketing our digital products and even some of our content development itself.
It also means delivering even more value to consumers especially those who subscribe to the traditional bundle.
As you know our company has led the industry in making our content available to consumers on an on-demand basis.
Given ongoing shifts in consumer behavior we think it's important to provide even more on-demand content as part of our network offerings.
As a result we're evaluating whether to retain our rights for a longer period of time and forego or delay certain content licensing.
This would effectively push the SVOD window for content on our networks to a multiyear period more consistent with traditional syndication.
In our efforts to improve the consumer experience on our networks we're also looking for opportunities to reduce our ad loads.
Just last week we announced that truTV will cut its ad load in half for prime time original shows starting late next year.
Over time we think a better viewing experience will help drive higher viewership and enhance the value proposition of our networks.
Now as I've said before I think now is the time for us to press our advantages and I'm confident these investments in content capabilities and the consumer experience will position us for continued strong growth in the years to come.
And I'm confident because we're operating from a position of strength which was evident once again in this quarter's results.
So let's look at this quarter turning first to Warner Brothers which increased its revenues by 15% led by continued strength in television and video games.
Already the top supplier of broadcast television programming Warners has the two biggest new shows on broadcast this fall with Blindspot and Supergirl.
Supergirl launched last week and represents one of eight Warner shows on television this season based on our DC Entertainment library joining already established hits such as The Flash Arrow and Gotham.
DC's IP was also a significant contributor to our video games business which through the end of the third quarter is the number one U.S.
publisher this year.
And at the end of the third quarter we launched LEGO Dimensions which counts Lego Batman and many of its DC counterparts among its cast of characters.
We think it's going to be a big hit this holiday season and the next big game franchise for Warners.
On the movie side the countdown has started for March's blockbuster Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice which will be followed by the buzz-generating screen version of DC's Suicide Squad.
DC is a key part of Warner's growth strategy and in recent years has had tremendous success in both television and games.
The next stage of growth for DC will be in film which is also a critical driver in our plans to further expand our consumer products business.
At Turner TBS's coverage of Major League Baseball playoffs was the most watched postseason ever for the network growing close to 50% over last year's coverage.
And the NBA on TNT one of our other key sports properties got off to a great start last week with viewership of its opening night doubleheader growing almost 25% over a year ago.
The continued strength of our sports lineup has helped make TBS and TNT the number one and number four cable networks in primetime year-to-date respectively and that's a great position to have ahead of the rebrands we'll be rolling out for each of those networks next year.
We're optimistic these rebrands will have a similar impact over time as the changes we made at CNN and Cartoon Network.
In the third quarter CNN continued to grow prime time ratings across all key demographics up 39% and 35% for adults 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 respectively.
CNN's reach has never been more apparent than during its recent record setting coverage of the Republican and Democratic presidential debates and CNN continued to build its digital presence with the recently launched Great Big Story.
That's a distinctive independent mobile focused news brand aimed at millennial audiences.
It's one of the many examples of how we're innovating outside the traditional TV ecosystem.
Cartoon also continued to gain share ending the third quarter as the number one ad-supported cable network with kids 6 to 11 for the second consecutive quarter.
Even more impressive it was the number one network in VODacross broadcast and cable in July and August.
Adult swim also shined brightly finishing as ad-supported cable's number one total day network among adults 18 to 34 for the 30th consecutive quarter.
That's an impressive run.
Turning to HBO it was another strong quarter for the global leader in print and subscription video.
In September HBO received a record 43 primetime Emmy awards.
That's the most of any network for the 14th consecutive year.
That included best drama for Game of Thrones and best comedy for Veep.
In total Game of Thrones was the recipient of 12 awards and that's a record for a series in one year.
So with HBO NOW HBO is at the forefront of marrying the very best content with a next generation consumer experience.
While it's very early and we have a lot of work ahead of us the early results for HBO NOW point to a significant long-term opportunity.
To take full advantage of that opportunity we'll continue to expand our line-up of both distribution partners and supported devices for the HBO service.
On that front HBO NOW recently added Roku to its lineup of distributors and we added support for Google's Chromecast and Amazon's Fire TV.
HBO is also expanding its content lineup to leverage its growing multi-platform presence.
And yesterday we announced that John Stewart will be joining the HBO family with a particular focus on providing content for our broadband platforms.
Over time we expect to expand the distribution of standalone HBO streaming services to many more territories around the world.
For example HBO Latin America recently announced plans to offer a standalone streaming version of HBO to Latin American and Caribbean broadband consumers.
The service will launch in Columbia before the end of the year and subsequently expand to other territories in the region.
So we're just getting started and I think you can see that we continue to execute at a very high level across the company.
We're moving quickly and decisively to take advantage of changes in technology and consumer behavior and I'm confident the investments we're making in content capabilities and in the consumer experience will further strengthen our competitive position solidify our long-term growth prospects and enable us to continue providing industry-leading returns to our shareholders for many years to come.
Now let me turn it over to Howard so he can take you through the financials in greater detail.
Howard? Thanks Jeff and good morning.
I'd like to start by providing some additional context for the comments Jeff made on our 2016 targets.
As Jeff noted and I want to emphasize we're still working through our budget process and we plan to provide our 2016 outlook when we report 4Q earnings.
Thanks.
(15:56) But as we stand today we have visibility on and want to share a number of items affecting 2016 including investment decisions we're in the process of making.
By far the most significant factor is FX which at current rates we expect to have a similar impact at this year or a drag of approximately $0.50 on adjusted EPS compared to our expectations when we put our plan in place last year.
Beyond that there are some parts of the business where we're tracking below and other areas we're outperforming our expectations compared to the plan we presented at our investor day.
In terms of operational headwinds similar to the rest of the industry ratings at our key domestic entertainment networks have declined to a greater degree than we anticipated a year ago and that will negatively affect ad revenue next year.
In addition since the end of 2014 subscribers at Turner's domestic networks have declined approximately 1% beyond what our outlook had assumed and we're assuming declines continue at a similar rate in 2016.
On the positive side our cost savings efforts are running ahead of plan and we remain focused on executing our efficiency initiatives and constraining overhead expenses.
At CNN and Cartoon Network ratings continue to be very strong and that's driving upside to our advertising expectations for those businesses.
At Warner Brothers our video games business is having a record year in 2015 and we see opportunities to continue to grow this business.
So despite difficult year-over-year comparisons we expect to outperform our initial video games expectations for next year.
And finally excluding FX growth across our international businesses remains strong.
Overall the impact from operational headwinds not including FX and the benefit from improved performance in the areas I just walked through are roughly similar in size each running several hundred million dollars.
Beyond those changes we have also identified some additional investments we believe are critical to our long-term success.
We recognize the video eco-system is rapidly evolving and strongly believe this is the time to press our advantage.
So as Jeff noted we've decided to invest even more aggressively in our businesses with a focus on content capabilities and enhancing the consumer experience.
And while we're still evaluating the size those investments could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Taking into account those additional investments we think 2016 adjusted EPS is more likely to be around $5.25 but as I mentioned we're still working through our budget process.
So other factors could influence our outlook to either the upside or downside.
Looking beyond 2016 we're in the very early stages of updating our long-range plan.
But I would point out the FX drag I noted earlier will carry through into future years and that means we don't expect to be over $8 in adjusted EPS in 2018 at this point.
Even so we're excited about the progress we are making on some of the upside opportunities we discussed with you previously and we think the investments we're making to enhance the consumer experience will be a critical point of differentiation for the company.
So we're very confident we can grow these businesses at industry leading levels in the years to come.
Now let me turn to the third quarter results.
I'll begin by referring to the first slide of our presentation which is now available on our website.
As you'll recall last year's third quarter results were affected by significant restructuring and severance charges across the company and programming charges at Turner.
Given the nature and size of these items my comments today related to expenses margins and adjusted operating income for the third quarter and year-to-date periods will exclude these charges from all periods.
Starting with consolidated results we had another strong quarter and were really pleased with our performance year to date.
Through the first three quarters of the year revenues increased 6% and adjusted operating income grew 13% and we've achieved that while continuing to execute on our strategic objectives and laying the groundwork for future growth.
In the third quarter revenues grew 5% or 10% excluding a drag of almost 500 basis points from FX.
Adjusted operating income increased 13% with margins expanding about 200 basis points.
That reflects our continued cost discipline as we held total expense growth at 2% in the quarter.
That included a 6% reduction in SG&amp;A due to savings from the restructuring actions taken last year and ongoing cost controls as well as a decline in equity compensation resulting from the movement in our stock price.
Moving down the income statement adjusted EPS was $1.25 compared to $1.22 in the prior year quarter and increased almost 30% when excluding last year's charges and benefit from a tax settlement.
During the quarter we repurchased over $1.2 billion in shares and paid $285 million in dividends.
In year to date we've returned almost $4.2 billion to shareholders.
This morning we reaffirmed our guidance for 2015 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70 and that's despite a foreign currency drag of approximately $0.45 to $0.50 which is above our previous estimate due primarily to the recent weakening of certain currencies in Latin America.
So we feel really good about how we're operating and we remain on track for another year of very attractive adjusted EPS growth.
Now turning to the segment highlights.
I'll start at Turner where we are encouraged by the improvement in advertising trends and we posted another quarter of profit growth despite significant FX headwinds.
Year-to-date Turner has grown adjusted operating income a very strong 16%.
Subscription revenues declined 1% in the quarter but increased around 4% when looking through the impact of foreign exchange and last year's benefit from certain domestic contractual settlements.
Domestic subscription revenues grew low single digits.
Subscriber losses were a modest headwind to growth in the quarter and were consistent with what we saw in the first half of the year declining around 1.5% on average.
Absent a drag of more than 20 percentage points from FX international subscription revenue was up low double digits with the biggest gains again coming from Latin America.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect a net negative impact of approximately 300 basis points on total subscription revenue growth from the combination of continued FX headwinds and the benefit from the comparisons to last year's carriage dispute with Dish.
And with higher pricing set at nine of our top 10 distributors we remain on track for domestic subscription revenue growth to accelerate into the low teens in 2016 and to grow at a similar rate in 2017.
Moving on advertising declined 1% but was up 3% when excluding FX and the impact from the absence of NASCAR programming.
Domestic advertising was flat in the quarter.
International advertising grew in the low double digits absent an FX drag of over 20 percentage points and the benefit from the consolidation of our sports network in Brazil.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect a net drag of close to 250 basis points as a result of the impact of FX headwinds partially offset by the positive comparison to last year's carriage dispute with Dish and the benefit from airing three additional major league baseball playoff games this year.
At the same time scatter pricing has been very healthy pacing up strong double digits versus the upfront.
And putting those factors together we anticipate total advertising revenue to be up low single digits in the quarter.
Looking at our costs we reduced expenses by 7% and margins expanded over 250 basis points helped by lower programming costs and SG&amp;A.
Programming expenses were down 9% primarily due to the absence of NASCAR.
SG&amp;A declined 6% reflecting our continued focus on cost efficiencies as well as savings from last year's restructuring actions.
In the fourth quarter excluding the charges from last year we anticipate programming cost growth to be up about 20% due to major league baseball and the timing of original programming on TNT.
A significant portion of the increase from higher MLB stems from the additional games and the significant growth in ratings and advertising during the playoffs which pulled additional rights amortization into the quarter.
We also expect higher marketing expenses associated with our originals.
As a result adjusted operating income excluding charges should be down significantly in the fourth quarter.
As we approach the rebrands of TBS and TNT we're also evaluating the fit of certain programming we currently air.
To the extent we decide not to use the programming in the future that could result in charges during the fourth quarter though nothing close to the magnitude we saw in 2014.
Even so Turner remains on track for another year of solid growth in adjusted operating income.
At the same time we're continuing to make the investments necessary to position us for long-term success.
Turning now to HBO where we continue to see very strong demand for the product in the form of both subscriber growth and content licensing.
Domestic subscription revenue growth was in the mid-single digits and consistent with the last several quarters a shift toward non-revenue-generating subs was a constraint on revenue growth.
As we expected HBO NOW's contribution to sub revenue increased from last quarter; however it's still very much in its infancy as both a product and a business.
Over time we expect NOW to be a more significant revenue contributor as we launch on additional platforms and continue to invest in the product.
Moving on content and other revenues grew 13%.
That was mainly from the domestic licensing of a library series.
Adjusted operating income was up 21%.
That was helped by a 3% decline in total expenses despite investments in marketing and technology related to HBO NOW.
Programming costs fell 6% due to lower theatrical expenses.
So HBO is on track for another year of good growth in adjusted operating income and given the strong global demand for our content and the investments we're making in programming and with HBO NOW we feel HBO is well positioned to deliver attractive financial results over the long term.
Moving on to Warner Brothers where we continue to benefit from the diversity of Warner's businesses.
In the quarter revenue increased 15% and adjusted operating income was up a strong 36%.
And that's despite a material drag from FX.
Television revenues increased over 20% due to strong growth in licensing fees and that was mainly due to the domestic licensing of 2 Broke Girls and Person of Interest.
Meanwhile Warners continued its record year in video games with revenues more than tripling for the second consecutive quarter.
That was led by the releases of LEGO Dimensions and Mad Max as well as continued strong sales from our franchise titles Mortal Kombat X and Batman: Arkham Knight.
These are a few examples of how we can leverage the great IP and franchises at Warners and games and why we see a very attractive long-term opportunity for this business.
Across theatrical and TV home video revenues were down 7% in the quarter in line with industry trends.
At the same time digital trends remain healthy with EST up double digits for Warners and the industry.
Overall Warner Brothers had a great quarter and remains on pace for a record year of adjusted operating income in 2015.
And with the healthy trends in our TV business a growing video games presence and an ambitious theatrical slate that kicks off next year we're confident Warners can continue to grow at attractive levels in the years to come.
Turning to the next slide free cash flow totaled $2.9 billion in the first nine months of the year.
That's up from a year ago due to growth in adjusted operating income as well as lower cash taxes partially offset by a significant swing in working capital.
The growth in working capital reflects higher receivables from increased TV licensing revenues severance payments related to last year's restructuring initiatives and increased content investments across our divisions.
Our cash taxes declined primarily due to the timing of favorable tax legislation and related payments.
And given healthy conversions so far this year we're on track for another year of very strong free cash flow generation.
Now looking at our balance sheet we ended the third quarter with $21.2 billion of net debt up almost $1.4 billion from the end of 2014.
That's mostly due to the approximately $3.9 billion we returned to shareholders in the first nine months through share repurchases and dividends.
Since our last earnings call we redeemed the over $300 million in debt that remained outstanding on our 2016 notes after our tender offer earlier this year.
And on the M&amp;A front we've invested $344 million so far this year.
That includes Turner's investment in iStreamPlanet in the third quarter and that's a great example of the kind of tuck-in acquisition we have prioritized in recent years and that remains our focus.
Our net leverage ratio at the end of the quarter was approximately 2.7 times; however excluding programming restructuring and severance charges from the fourth quarter of 2014 our leverage ratio would have been 2.64 times slightly below our target leverage of 2.75 times.
As we look forward we do not anticipate a change in either our target leverage or our capital allocation philosophy which will remain focused on investments back into our businesses targeted M&amp;A and consistent direct returns to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
With that let's move on to the final slide which looks at our outlook for 2015.
We're really pleased with how we're executing across our business and with our strong financial results through the first nine months of the year.
Given our strong year-to-date results I want to provide some additional context on our 2015 outlook for adjusted EPS which we continue to expect to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.70.
As I mentioned earlier that includes an FX headwind of approximately $0.45 to $0.50 based on current rates.
Looking through that FX headwind our outlook implies over 20% growth off last year's base of $4.15.
Midpoint of our outlook suggests adjusted EPS will be down slightly in the fourth quarter when compared to the $0.98 we reported in the fourth quarter of last year.
That's mainly due to investments across our networks' businesses that we've previously discussed with you including further technology and marketing investments related to HBO NOW and significantly higher programming and marketing costs at Turner.
Meanwhile at Warner Brothers we have difficult theatrical release comparisons an unfavorable mix of costs related to investments in content at video games and TV and we continue to face material FX headwinds but overall we're very pleased with our performance this year and we're on track for our seventh consecutive year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.
And we believe the investments we're making will both strengthen our position inside the traditional TV ecosystem and allow us to take advantage of the growing opportunities outside of it.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike to start the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Howard.
Ashley can you please open up the queue for Q&amp;A? Thank you.
Our first question comes from Michael Nathanson of MoffettNathanson.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I have one for Jeff and one for Richard.
Jeff in your comments you talked about pushing out your SVOD windows on cable network content to longer syndication time frames.
So can you talk about how you expect them to monetize that content? Will it be through heavier advertising or license fees? And then for Richard given Jeff's comments on that how do you think about the HBO Amazon relationship where you've sold a lot of library content and do you want to bring that back onto the HBO NOW platform because that's where your brand is? So those are my questions.
Thanks Michael.
It's Jeff.
I'll start.
First I think all of us know that for shows that premier on either broadcast or cable channels the biggest monetization support by far is the carriage fee plus the advertising for – that supports either a big bundle or a streamlined bundle.
If you then go to the aftermarkets syndication SVOD et cetera if we're talking about SVOD which we also all know drives a much smaller subscription revenue and it has limited or no ad revenue it's pretty clear that that offers less monetization support in general for the quality and diversity of programming that we've all gotten used to seeing on the dial.
So we think a lot about how to enhance the value of the traditional pay TV bundle and it's something we're obviously looking at at our networks.
Historically the syndication window was four years after the original air date.
And that whether it went to syndication over the air whether it went to cable basics that was supported by subscription revenue it was supported by advertising.
More recently we've seen most serialized content move towards one-year windows.
Let's just take our HBO deal and Richard's going to speak to it given your question the Amazon deal has a three-year window.
So we'll continue to evaluate and see what window works best for different types of content: the pay TV originals the broadcast premiers the cable premiers.
And we'll look very carefully at the health of our networks and all of Warner's network partners to make sure that we optimize the value of content to provide support for the diversity of what you're seeing today.
And we all need to consider that the shift in viewing to digital platform suggests that consumers often don't mind waiting a year for certain content if that's the way that it's offered.
So you look at the basic cable networks and they compete with services like HBO Netflix et cetera all of which the HBOs the Netflixes they have long-term exclusivity for their shows.
So we're still evaluating what it would look like but it could mean adjusting the window somewhat as I said in my prepared remarks today.
Also let's go to international.
It's a big source of support for programming.
It's a very interesting example of how it could work.
And if you take the example like Netflix is doing some smart things entering a number of territories.
It's aggressively bidding for syndicated content and what you see is that in those territories we see incumbent distributors bid for second window rights not just first window rights.
They're of course supported by subscription fees advertising et cetera.
So this increased competition is driving demand for great TV content it's benefiting Warner Brothers it's a rapidly evolving ecosystem not just here but overseas and we expect change and innovation to continue.
So that's why we're thinking about this.
I do want to emphasize that what you're hearing today from us is hopefully you'll hear a very confident position and we're quite resolved to deal and benefit in the long term because we think the focus of our basic and pay TV networks is an advantage.
We think we're going to be in whichever bundles are out there streamlined or launched and we think these moves are very important to secure the long term growth and we think it's all going to work.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Michael it's Richard.
Look as you know a large percentage of Amazon Prime subs were not HBO subs.
And we thought it was a terrific way -it's a three-year-old window it's just made clear.
We thought it was just a great way for people to have a chance to sample our programming to have the HBO experience and we think that was a catalyst to driving people to subscribing.
It's been a terrific relationship.
We're now as you know expanding our relationship have expanded our relationship with Amazon on the Amazon Fire and we like it because we think it exposes HBO to more people and drives them to the network.
So we think it's been a positive thing.
Okay.
Thanks Jeff.
Thanks Richard.
Thanks Michael.
Ashley can we have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Janedis of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just wanted to clarify your comments on programming investment.
Does this mean you're investing beyond the original guidance? And understanding it's early in the budgeting process if it is can you size it? And is the increase largely at HBO or across all of your properties? And then maybe more broadly has the cost to monetize a viewer increased meaningfully for the industry? Thanks.
This is Howard.
First of all I would note that the investments they aren't primarily programming.
So I'm not going to drill into the details of the individual items but most of the investments we're making are in those capabilities around digital technology infrastructure.
Now there is some incremental spend that's related to programming and that's been done at HBO and that's in line with those areas that we discussed earlier which are Sesame Street VICE Bill Simmons and Jon Stewart.
But again clearly mostly on a consumer experience and capability side.
Okay.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Yeah John it's Richard.
Look all the investments in programming that you've read about in the last six months obviously we think are not only additive to HBO NOW and HBO GO but to the brand itself.
And we're very excited about what that portends for the future and for new subs and for new millennial subs particularly.
So these investments were incremental but they're incremental obviously to drive revenue in the future.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> And John it's John Martin.
Just to add a quick point from Turner's perspective the investments that we're considering are really mostly outside of the programming arena as we already have a lot of scale in programming but we're investing in new businesses building new brands and as Howard said new capabilities.
We acquired iStreamPlanet a premier live streaming company.
We just launched out of CNN Great Big Story.
We announced recently that we're spanning up the league in partnership with WME and IMG in e-sports which is a hugely exciting area.
We just launched an internal comedy focused digital business called Super Deluxe.
We've got Bleacher that we want to expand.
We've got the number one OTT sports service in Brazil called Esporte Interativo which we're also investing in and Cartoon Network and Adult Swim building new businesses outside of the ecosystem.
So...
Thanks.
And maybe one quick related question just on the potential programming write-downs Howard.
I think there was a bit of a shift to younger skewing programming on a going-forward basis.
As so as you look at what may not be working is that the program you've already purchased in syndication or maybe yet to be a programming that may not find an audience? Look overall the rebrands for TNT and TBS are making that move to the more distinctive younger skewing programs but we're evaluating programs but I would say that what we're talking about is around the edges and it's not anywhere near the magnitude of what we talked about in the past.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Ashley next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alexia Quadrani of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
My question's on Turner.
You highlighted the sub declines as one of the headwinds in the business.
Now having completed the majority of your renewals and I know you're not going to talk specifically about any one renewal but can you maybe talk generally if protections or minimums are part of those renewal discussions? And then just sort of staying on Turner my second part of my question is on your commentary on the reduced ad load I guess where are we in terms of what has been announced or done so far and where do you think we need to be? Maybe you can elaborate on the puts and takes in that decision how much of it pricing what do you get assuming it's enough to offset the ad line declines over time? Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Alexia.
Two pretty broad questions.
Let me see if I can get through them quickly.
On the subscription revenue side we are quite pleased with the position that we're in right now and quite confident in our ability to continue to drive very very strong subscription revenue growth.
I think you were probably referring to the domestic side.
We've now completed nine of ten deals where we have absolutely 100% achieved the rate increases that we were seeking.
We're confident that we will complete the remaining deal in reasonably short order.
All of our contracts have certain penetration protections that give us additional confidence but I do want to just comment for one second with respect to the declines in the subscribers in the United States.
In the prior quarters and in other forms we've said that we've been planning for declines to continue.
We don't anticipate that they're going to be material.
We continue to still believe that.
What we're doing now is we're starting to just as we're planning for next year we're going to assume that the rate of decline is similar to this year although in an encouraging way the traditional distributors who have reported third quarter earnings most of them if not all of them have reported improvements year-over-year and some distributors the best third quarters that they had in years.
In addition we are in talks with numerous interested parties to potentially launch OTT services.
And as Jeff said we would fully anticipate participating in those bundles with the portfolio of networks that we have.
So I think as you look out on the horizon there's reason to be really confident and optimistic that we could even stem losses altogether and maybe even get back to a position of growth in the United States.
On the ad load side we announced recently which was a first for us that we were going to take truTV and provide an enhanced viewing experience beginning next year that will essentially provide for 21% more programming.
And in some respects we're starting with truTV we're going to learn a lot.
I think as Jeff said the consumer experience is increasingly important.
We're transforming Turner to focus solely first and foremost on the consumer where the consumer's going and what that experience is going to be.
When we think about the ad clutter that we have on our networks I'm comfortable with where we are for the most part but I think tru is going to be a very very interesting experiment to see whether it actually will make a difference with respect to the viewing experience.
And we don't anticipate it will have really any revenue impact with respect to that network.
So we're going to continue to pay very close attention to this.
We care deeply about the experiences that we provide our consumers with our brands and we'll be providing more updates as we get into next year.
Thank you.
Thanks Alexia.
Ashley next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Mitchelson of UBS.
Your line is open.
Oh thanks so much.
So one for Howard and one for Jeff.
Just doing the math Howard guidance of almost $6.00 call it $5.90 $0.50 of currency takes you to $5.40.
You're saying preliminarily $5.25 so that incremental $0.15 of investment's about $150 million to $200 million of EBITDA investment versus what you might have thought at the Analyst Day.
So do I have that math right? And then Jeff I guess it's sort of interesting right? Perhaps the issue around SVOD rights demonstrates that Warner Brothers and HBO have different profit maximization strategic priorities than Turner.
Are the synergies among these three still sufficient or does it make more sense to have Turner and Warner's HBO separate at this point given the dynamics you guys were talking about today? Thank you.
Thank you Doug.
Yes in terms of the outlook that we talked about it is as you point out mostly FX and it is mostly investments but keep in mind it is early in the process.
There are things that we need to work through.
But we do expect it to be in that range and we're confident about that.
Yeah on your question for – I don't think it's true and maybe you could ask a follow-up as to whether the profit maximization aims or needs of Warner or Turner or HBO are different.
That's basic cable premium and then producers of shows that are sold both to broadcast cable and pay TV.
So I don't think there's any benefit to what you're saying in any kind of separation.
In fact I think because we've now gotten our businesses with those three into the ones that we think work best together both in strategic planning in global distribution in global sourcing of leading projects meaning attracting creators whether film TV shows et cetera these are huge advantages for Time Warner.
And what we're all talking about including all of your questions are how to take the obviously successful history of bundles which have very high penetration not just in the United States but everywhere and have a significant amount of ad support and how to evolve all of them into more VOD better guide and interface.
And the programming some of which goes for premium not ad supported some of which belongs in an ad supported environment but in a evolved ad environment all of that still holds true.
And I think what you're seeing now in the evolution of streamlined bundles and new distributors is more opportunity on a global basis to make all this program production and network branding more engaged and more relevant.
So we wouldn't split any of this up.
We think it belongs together and it gives us an advantage relative to our competitors.
Thank you that's helpful.
If I could just ask one -yep thanks.
I was just going to clarify Doug.
As I talked about there's still a lot of moving pieces including stuff that's below the line but your math does make sense; with respect to the investments could be in that range.
It would be helpful just a clarification thank you for all that from John.
Are sub declines this 1% below budgets are sub declines accelerating during this year or is this just reflective the change in guidance reflective of the trends that have been in place the last few quarters? Yeah we're not seeing an acceleration.
It's just the trends are continuing.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Doug.
Ashley can we have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rich Greenfield of BTIG Financial Services.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Really I'd love to get Jeff's view.
You gave your manifesto on looking at the whole world of media several years ago and I guess as you think about direct to consumer businesses you've led a path with HBO but you really haven't done it for Turner.
And I'm just wondering one what's stopping you from literally launching your own everything Time Warner? Forget even about just Turner but everything Time Warner direct to consumer at X price and keeping SVOD rights? And then if that's not attractive or that's not something you're going to do as you think about – you chose earlier this year to sell content to Hulu.
Why is Hulu better? Because I was surprised that you all allowed in your contracts Hulu to be ad free given that I thought Hulu the benefit was it protected the ad model.
And so why is Hulu better choice versus any of the other SVOD platforms? Okay.
Thanks Rich.
That's a good and complicated question.
I'll start with the HBO then Turner and basic cable which tends to go in a bundle.
If you take the point let's start with premium branded services like an HBO Showtime Netflix.
For a long time at HBO I think more than 15 years has had a VOD service.
And therefore all of the programming the original programming et cetera that's on HBO is all there and it's quite successful just as it is at Netflix or Showtime.
Now it is true if you stay with HBO to your question that when we sold or licensed some syndicated window product three years old to Amazon all of which is still on HBO what we're giving is consumers more choice and doing a sampling reach for HBO with Amazon and Amazon Fire subscribers that allows HBO to get a trial so they can see older programming and then sign on to the current service.
Those kinds of things make sense for premium networks.
And then go to your question on basic networks like Turner or pick a broadcast network.
Those are typically premieres often once-a-week shows across the dial whether it's broadcast or cable and most consumers are used to getting those in a bundle whether the bundle has to be 100 networks whether it's the 30 50 or 10 that a consumer chooses which I think over time they'll have more choice to be able to do.
If we took the course you're suggesting and it's worth thinking about of course.
Take say the Turner networks and put them on their own you do have some questions of distribution of coverage of ad support which it may not be the best way to premiere a range of basic cable networks.
And remember most of the distributors out there don't have the really strong ability to support an offering like that.
That could emerge but it's not here now.
And then specifically on Hulu? On why Hulu would be better than any of the others since it now has ad-free or why you allowed an ad-free? Well I'll start.
Kevin may want to – no matter who we license to it's important that we focus on maximizing the value of our content across all distribution platforms and key point across all windows in time.
That includes continuing to evaluate what window works best for different types of content.
Half hour comedies are different than serialized dramas.
And when considering the best partner there are many different considerations beyond just the price.
For example I think as you referenced Hulu established advertising has value by charging additionally or two levels depending whether a consumer has ads or not.
The question of whether it's a sufficient charge for the ads remains to be seen.
But we think competition on ad spot providers not just the ones like Amazon Netflix Hulu but as you go around the world you have a combination of pure SVOD guys you have SVOD services from incumbent broadcasters.
It's becoming a fairly rich competition.
It's good for consumers it's good for content value and we think we'll arrive at the right mix.
I think if your underlying point is that it doesn't make a lot of sense to sell programming to a given distribution model let's call it a bundle with a fair amount of subscription support and advertising support and then you sell it to a method of distribution that has less realistic ad and subscription support that would clearly not be a sustainable thing for either content production or networks over the long term.
Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc.</span></strong> This is Kevin.
I think from a Warner Brothers perspective it's clear that maintaining the integrity and health of the ecosystem is critical to maximizing the long-term value of the content.
And therefore I think as Jeff said we're constantly evaluating the right methods the right distributors the right partners first to monetize our content both domestically and globally.
Thanks Rich.
Thank you.
Ashley could we have our next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ben Swinburne of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Howard is the new earnings outlook which I know is preliminary for 2016 inclusive of this SVOD delay or forego decision or is that further out? And then Richard can the HBO revenue growth accelerate as you laid out last fall if we continue to have this kind of DirecTV satellite mixed sift headwind that seems to have bitten premiums a bit in the last quarter? Thank you.
Hey thanks Ben.
This is Howard.
So yes the answer is the SVOD is in those investments.
That represents part of the consumer experience improvement that we're talking about.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Yeah look we're very actually excited about the deals that are coming up for renewal.
And we think as we've said before that while there's a disproportionate amount of our sub growth that is not revenue generating that also presents us with a huge opportunity because as our brand continues to grow and as we continue to add value to the brand which we think we've done in droves in the last years that gives us a terrific position as we go into these negotiations.
And we are going to recapture some of that revenue from our better performing affiliates.
And as we go in to renegotiate we think there's a lot of upside for us and certainly in the worst performing affiliates and in the better performing affiliates as well.
Thank you both.
Thanks Ben.Ashley we have time for one more question.
Okay our final question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot and good morning.
Rich on the HBO side is there anything you can give us more specifically on HBO NOW as far as the subscriber trajectory consumption patterns? It must be giving you some confidence in informing your investments in content at HBO.
So anything you can give us on engagement or revenue I think would help us and investors further our understanding of your content investments there.
And then John – go ahead.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
No no.
Sorry.
Inc.</span></strong> No I was just going to add a quick one for John Martin just at Turner.
It seems as though NBA on TNT and MLB on TBS continue to be big anchors for Turner.
Could you just touch on your interest in sports content or incremental sports rights from here? I'm thinking of the Thursday night football package for next year.
Thanks.
Home Box Office Inc.</span></strong> Let me start with NOW quickly.
Look it's early days still.
We're basically within the first six months.
Roku just joined Apple Android and Amazon.
We still have PlayStation and Xbox to come.
It's worth noting that 40% of GO usage for example comes on Roku PlayStation and Xbox.
We just went on Roku.
So there's a lot of opportunity out there for us.
We're very pleased with what we're seeing.
We love the programming that we're adding.
We're going to begin next year marketing even more aggressively as we're out on all platforms.
But the subscriber satisfaction the trends we're seeing we're very pleased.
It's early days.
We have more to do and we're going to make the necessary investments not only in content but in marketing.
Just continue to show people the value proposition inside the brand and inside not only HBO NOW but also HBO GO and the linear network as well.
Turner Broadcasting System Inc.</span></strong> Hey Anthony it's John.
So if you're asking if we'd be interested in an NFL Thursday night package the answer's yes.
The NFL is a premium sports property.
We think it would be a great fit within the Turner brand.
We think we'd be fantastic partners with them to help build their brand.
So if and when the Thursday night package becomes available it's something that we would look at.
But I want to be very clear here that our intention would be to remain very fiscally responsible.
And we feel really good about our current sports portfolio.
I would agree with what you said that what we have already provides a real anchor to the value of our networks and we've got the NBA partnership into 2025 March Madness through 2024 and Major League Baseball through 2021.
So I think we're in great shape now.
We would look at the NFL opportunistically and either way we'll be fine.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
Thanks Anthony.
Thanks Anthony.
Thank you everybody for joining us today.
If you have any follow-up questions please let us know.
If not we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.