(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of John Godyn from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Scott I was hoping now that we've had some time to digest Beech that you could talk a little bit more about revenue synergy opportunities.
You had some very good commentary on the cost synergy side it sounds like on a run rate basis the outlook there is that it could exceed some of the prior comments.
I'm just curious what the outlook looks like or how it might have evolved on revenue synergies now that you've had some more time? With respect to revenue synergies it's not something that I want to really put hard number around.
We try to base all of our synergy and math around the things we know we can control which is really on the cost side of the equation.
I'd also say from a timing perspective here.
We've been working pretty hard over the last few months on the cost side of things -- the team has been working together so that we were able to kind of come out of the gate right away executing on the cost synergies.
Obviously we couldn’t get sales teams together prior to the official closing so those teams are now working.
We've got kickoff events and the folks that are in the particular regions that have been selling King Air’s or meeting with the teams that have been selling Citation jets.
So we are certainly starting to operate to make sure that we can take advantage of what revenue opportunities or maybe but it's not something that I would put a number.
Obviously we feel good about the fact that we now have a huge install base of Hawker jets and these are customers that are very very important to us.
We’re going to reach out to them to work with them on the service front which also will hopefully over time increase our conversion rate or I guess retain those Hawker customers and as they move to a new jet we obviously want to see them move into the Citation jet family and we will do everything to make sure they have a very service experience to help promote that on a go forward basis.
But it's not something that we're going to come out with any form of real guidance around a specific number on the revenue synergy side.
Outside of a specific number I mean is it fair to say that directionally now that you’ve had more time looking at Beech and the sales forces are communicating that you feel directionally better about revenue synergy potential as we think about it long term? I think John we always felt that this was an important part of the acquisition and something that would be a great add in terms of adding those additional sales resources and building those relationships and we have only being in to this now for a few weeks.
The teams have been getting together I would say there is a great deal of energy around it you know each of the sessions -- had around the world where we get these teams together people are very enthusiastic very bullish on working together to get out there and just increase our coverage and build more customer relationship.
So it was without a doubt an important part of the transaction and I would say so far as the teams we have gotten together we feel very good about it.
And then I was just hoping that you could elaborate on the general biz jet commentary and specifically what you're seeing with some of the legacy aircraft types.
A lot of the data that the analyst community tracks has generally being a looking a bit better.
Some people have gotten a bit excited.
I'm just curious what your perspective is as you read the tea leaves? Thanks.
So key metrics continue to move in the right direction in terms of used available for sale.
You certainly hear some firming around the pricing in the use market which is encouraging.
For sure the number of aircraft and we watch this every quarter in terms of Citation fleet and what's available for sale drop-down another 40 aircraft or so as the install base continues to grow.
So I would say in terms of trends of some of those key metrics they are still going in the right direction.
We feel good about the fact that pricing has firmed in the use market.
We feel good about the fact that pricing is incrementally better in the new market as well.
So if I had to kind of give overall color on a year-over-year basis as we sat here a year ago we were kind of saying we are little concerned about what we are seeing in the market and we were taking production back and sort of trying to firm pricing and we sit here a year later and while the overall numbers are not a lot higher in terms of unit deliveries we certainly feel better about what's going on in the market and feel a lot more confident about where we're heading here as we into the second third quarter than we did a year ago.
Scott I wanted to ask about pricing.
You mentioned -- in the release you have got some pricing on the new models new model Citations.
Just wondering if you've got any pricing on the balance of the Citation portfolio because I know you guys have tried to be a little bit more disciplined on pricing.
Yes we did Pete and in fact when you see the pricing numbers here they will come out our pricing was up on a year-over-year basis and that really is a reflection of the legacy models.
The M2s and the Sovereigns which were give bit of a volume here in the first quarter aren't going to be in that price number because they are new models.
So the price was certainly up on the existing CJ and XLS families and that number is out there.
The M2s and the Sovereigns obviously -- they are new -- will not show up in our pricing number but certainly pricing has been better than we've seen in the past.
That’s great and then I’m interested in kind of your new expectations for a peak margins at aviation.
I mean it's tough to kind of figure out what kind of the go ahead margin rate at Beechcraft would be given it's kind of up and down history and Hawker has wound down but you’ve got $80 million in cost savings you’re looking at.
So can you give us some color around you know what peak margin can possibly be for the big aviation segment? Pete I have to be honest I haven't tried to do that math yet.
We have been sort of focused here on making sure we can communicate to you guys exceptions in terms of what it means here at’14 and particularly how to model going into ’15 in terms of you know peak margins as you know we have always talked about trying to get through a couple 100s basis points better than in the past.
That’s obviously a little bit muddied up here because we’re going to have a mix of stuff that we don’t actually really know what the margins were back in those peak days because there was so much noise in all of the financials as Beech went through the Hawker issue.
It is a very complicated model Pete so I can’t even really go back and tell you very well an actual real percent to know what to base that peak off of.
I know that’s kind of a muddy answer but the math is -- historical numbers always had all kinds of special charges and impacts of things.
It's just it's not an easy comparable.
I think the way to think about it is in Scott’s earlier comments about the 200 basis points adjustment for kind of a normalized full year run-way of the segment and then you are making your own assumptions on what you think volumes are going to do and what the pricing environment is and I think you can come up with a view of where your margins are going to go.
Okay.
Last question should we'd be worried that 412 was down year-over-year and 429 as well? I think Pete that’s just timing.
We had an awful lot of 412s that went out in the fourth quarter just based on customer demand and where they were so we were very light in the first quarter particularly with respect to 412s which is an important part of the mix commercial business but I don't think that portends anything for the year.
It was just a light number deliveries based on customer demand and delivery dates for the first quarter.
You still think 4.5 billion for Bell for the full year in revenue? That’s correct.
Yes sir.
Just a follow-up I think you reiterated your Bell revenue guidance there.
I was wondering if you could comment on Textron Systems whether you’re still comfortable with your full-year revenue guidance for that division? We’re trying to stay away from quarterly guidance here but we did try to tell people the real drivers of the revenue growth on a year-over-year basis is driven in large part by the TCDL program which is really going to be a third and fourth quarter program just because that’s when we’re going to be completed the final testing and it should be signed off in terms of starting customer delivery.
So we expected the first and frankly expect the second quarter to be pretty light in terms of the revenue line because you won't see those deliveries until the third and fourth quarter.
And then secondly on the aviation division I was wondering if you can give us an idea what the sort of lead time is on a new jet at that moment? Whether that started to move out a little bit? It depends on which model.
So it has -- got a little bit on some of the models and if you’re interested Robert we will push up as far forward in the list as we could.
No I was focused more on the ones where you have been operating a bit on a spot basis and whether that’s stretched down a little bit? It's a still spot basis on some of the lighter jets Robert but as you get into some of the new models like the Sovereigns you’re starting to build -- again not a huge backlog but these aircraft for instance are -- I don’t think we can get to one of those Sovereigns in the second quarter.
So we’re kind of at a point where that production line is pretty well matching what the demand is sort of quarter ahead.
I just wondered in terms of the Beechcraft business the lumpiness of sort of the margin profile there during the year.
I don't know if there's anything particularly important in terms of seasonality that you wanted to call out but obviously the margin number to the extent that it counts for you had in Q1 but very very high versus the kind of 7% underlying margin guide for the year.
Well I think Julian if you look at the numbers it looks like a very high number because it really just reflects those last two weeks of a quarter and you had a lot of King Air deliveries which is fairly standard I think in this business.
You tend to have a fair number of deliveries right near at the end of the quarter.
So the margin rate in that two week period looks particularly high but that’s because you had eight deliveries in a two week period of time over a relative short cost base.
So I think that’s just a function of the fact that you’re just looking at a snapshot of the last two weeks of the quarter.
In terms of sort of a normal annualized looking at the business from what we have seen if its historical numbers it doesn’t look terribly different than the jet business.
Deliveries tend to be stronger in the fourth quarter than they are in the second quarter let’s say but again it doesn’t look to us to be have historically being very different than what we see in the jet business.
Thanks and then on the Bell I guess you are still sticking with that 12% 12.5% margin guide for the year as a whole.
I just wondered if there's anything in Q1 any spillover in terms of the ERP type stuff that hurt the margins were it really was primarily around the commercial mix and that should come back? Well I mean there is both things in there Julian so for sure as we talked about last year as we went through sort of the challenges on the new ERP system and the labor disruptions.
We were running at a higher cost basis than we normally would and a fair bit of that did get inventoried just because it goes and then leaves off over a period of time.
So when we gave you the guidance around the margins we did expect that as that inventory went through and burned off over the course of the year that we expect that we would see about a 100 basis point drag on our margin rates through the course of the year and in fact if we look at those things that were -- those additional costs as they flow through in the first quarter it was about 100 basis point drag.
And so I think you will see roughly a percent of margin degradation in this year’s performance that was a result of those higher cost that we incurred last year but again that was factored into the guidance that we gave you in that 12% 12.5% number.
Thanks and lastly very quickly R&amp;D to sales.
You had indicated alongside the Q4 earnings that should be a tailwind to margins this year year-over-year is that still the case? I think it's a very slight tailwind and I think it remains that way as we bring Beech and the R&amp;D as a percent of sales is kind of about what it is for the overall Textron Company.
So no real change in terms of the overall R&amp;D as a percent of sales and it's a very slight tailwind.
It's a little bit wider in Cessna because of the lower numbers of aircraft and certification.
It's a bit higher at Bell as we have 525 and 505 and V-280 [ph] all going full tilt.
Scott I wanted to ask a question around the sales force and the aviation segment you've gone through pretty big transformation in there over the last year or 18 months.
Was wondering if you could provide an update to us on the benefits what you've got this far out of that transformation as you move more to a direct sales force? And whether these guys have been to populate some sort of pipeline in this tracking system and what that pipeline looks like on a year-over-year basis.
So I think there is no question we have been continue to grow our sales force both domestically and internationally as we have talked about before adding a lot more of our resources as opposed to be dependent on third parties to do that so we continue to make progress I think in doing that clearly the acquisition of Beech helps we have added a lot more sales resource through that deal and we have retained that sales force by the way.
So I mean there is still a team out there as it was with the Beech very focused on the turboprop marketplace and so as I said earlier we’re having a lot of sort of get to know each other sessions around the world so that the teams have been out there selling jets and the team is selling turboprops and know each other and can try to find opportunities to work together going forward.
But we have largely retained all those folks.
So it's increased the net size of our sales force which I think is good.
I think we have a very good system actually that we use for keeping track of customer contacts and customer opportunities and sort of where people are in the cycle and I would say that’s the system we sort of use and look at it.
It's the system we looked at a year ago to say hey guys we’re not feeling that great about where things are in terms of demand and that’s also the same system we’re looking at today and saying there is a more robust set of customer opportunities out there which makes us feel better about where we’re heading in the second third quarter.
So the system is quite good.
The sales teams around the world keep it statused and Scott and that team have a sort of once a week review with all the sales folks around the world on that data basis and kind of get an update on where it is and how things are progressing.
Scott do you feel like you've been able to close more deals as a result of this direct sales force than you would have had you've been using an indirect sales force? As you look back the year 18 months on without a doubt the right move you’ve made? Absolutely.
Our indirect our sales representatives or authorized representatives around the world is like anything Jason.
I think we have had some that have been outstanding and they do a terrific job and we still have a bunch of those and we keep the guys who are doing a great job for us.
The thing that was that led us to start to do more of our direct sales around the world is that I think we had too many that were great for us when things were good but when times weren’t good they had other things to go do and obviously when we put a direct person in good times and bad doesn’t really matter.
The person is out there selling every day.
They are not going to wait around for the overall market to become positive to go sell.
They try to sell all the time and I think that we’re seeing the benefits of that.
A couple of questions.
First Scott can you update us on where the Citation 10 stands are we going to see deliveries this quarter? I'm not sure I’ve seen whether it's been certified yet? I think our past week was the last week of flight testing and so at this point it's now just into the paper work process and I guess the bottom line George is yes I would expect that the certification will happen this quarter and that you will see initial deliveries of 10s in Q2.
Okay and then Frank just to update if I look back at Beech you projected EBITDA of 215 in the December call.
Now it looks like it is gone up a little bit.
We are talking 235 maybe is that due to the 80 million of synergies you are talking now versus 65 before or if I'm wrong if you can clarify what that -- the comparison? Yes George I’m not sure if I’m following your EBITDA comparative but I would say 2013 came in from a historical basis pretty much on top of what we had expected and the numbers that we’re talking about now are pretty much on top of what we had indicated at the time that we announced the acquisition probably achieving the run-rate synergy saving faster than what we indicated at that point in time.
But generally consistent with where we were at the time we made the announcement.
Okay.
And then one last one you had mentioned maybe a 100 basis point impact from the continued labor from the follow-up of the labor issues you had at Bell.
Is that more heavily loaded to the first quarter here where the margins were down a lot more or is that just a 100 basis points in the combination of the weaker mix? That falls across the year.
Really as we sell product and it just rolls through cost of sales at a pretty consistent 100 basis points across each quarter.
Yes so the 100 basis points is pretty consistent at least the way we forecasted or see it right now George the big comparative from ’13 to ’14 beyond that is largely driven by mix of principally commercial and largely 412 helicopters in Q1 of ’13 versus Q1 of ’14.
My first question was about I know you discussed pricing it seems like there was a bit of a pricing benefit for the full-year just given there is a loss legacy aircraft can you give us an idea maybe the gross margin differential between some of the newer products like the M2 versus the Mustang? We wouldn’t give those number specifically in numerical Sheila but for sure we’re going to have two dynamics I think through the course of the year.
One is that we’re seeing stronger pricing on those legacy aircraft be it Mustang’s CJ2s CJ3 CJ4 XLS product lines.
I would say on a gross margin basis you know the things they are not going to be reflected in pricing are going to be the M2s and the Sovereigns and the gross margins on both of those products is good.
Okay.
And the first quarter out of the gate seems like you've been successful with new product launches of their gains and momentum.
I know it's a little bit early but looking back historically it seems like new products results in several quarters of market share gains.
You have few competitors coming out with new launches in late ‘14 and ‘15.
I guess does the sales force have any strategic views on this or how you're thinking about that? Well I think if you look at the market historically it does the new products do drive some market and share.
We’re certainly seeing that with the M2 and the Sovereign and I would say we see that certainly playing out through the year and I would say right now the business and the sales force I think is very enthusiastic about where the Latitude is.
You know that really will be what drives our growth I think in the 2015 timeframe.
So as we have kind of said we see the market sort of flattish with respect to demand for the legacy product so we didn’t make a lot of growth assumption there most of the growth driven by the introduction of new product.
So I came to Sovereign and TEN for the 2014 window and then you add on top of that going into 2015 the Latitude Program which we feel very good about.
The flight testing has grown fabulously.
We think we’re very much on track for that to having a meaningful impact for us in 2015 Okay got it and then just a last one for me.
We saw some indications from Congress about the V-22s for carrier usage; can you maybe talk about the potential to expand the V-22 within the U.S.
government? We think there is a couple of opportunities that are pretty significantly in the V-22 for it's future.
The replacement of the so called carrier onboard delivery vehicle we think it's a great opportunity.
That’s one where there has been a fair bit of work already conducted by the Marine Corps and the Navy looking at the utility of the V-22 to execute that mission.
The issue I think in the long run will really be how they decide to specific that requirement Sheila.
So if the mission is just purely to go from a land based airport to a big carrier deck that’s a fairly narrow mission and there is other ways including refurbishing existing equipment probably to get there.
The benefit of the V-22 is you can completely fulfill that mission but you can also go from any land site or any sea site to any ship because of the vertical takeoff and landing capability of the V-22.
So I think it's still too early in terms of where that program is there is not a hard requirement you know that’s been written there is a lot of study and analysis going on within the Navy.
So I think that program obviously is still a number of years out but we feel good about how we’re positioned because frankly that aircraft can do things and fulfill the mission in a way that there is -- that no other platform can do it and because it's a production unit and you don’t have a huge development program.
We also think it's a much lower risk approach than doing something like an overhaul of older aircraft.
So obviously from our perspective we get a lot better value you get a better mission and you get a lot lower risk but we’re few years from knowing the answer of that question I think.
Scott I think you mentioned the Sovereign you were booked one quarter out.
Can you just give a little color on how that's tracking versus your expectation and your initial plan for the year? I mean it's basically meeting our plan Shannon.
We expected once we got this thing certified and the aircraft was out there and plenty of demo assets for customers to fly it that would drive pretty strong demand and that’s exactly what we’re seeing.
So I don’t want to say hey it's the market is going crazy and you got a line up years in advance or anything like that but the aircraft is doing really well.
It's flying very well the performance has been great.
Customers love the new interior the added range the more sophisticated capable cockpit.
So far it's playing out as we expected.
Okay.
And then just maybe on this ASR you guys did.
I guess that's a one-off in the first quarter.
I mean any changes philosophy there and it doesn’t look like it really is much of an impact I guess it offsets dilution? As we said Shannon clearly we’re committed to making sure that we do as a minimum enough stock buyback to offset the dilutive effects of all the employee programs and that’s really what that was.
We just did it in the first quarter to kind of make sure we got the full year benefit of doing that in terms of other buyback opportunities we would continue to look at that on sort of an opportunistic basis.
But we will remain committed on a go forward basis that is the minimum.
We will always take out enough to offset dilution.
Just wanted to get my arms around a little bit more Cessna mix for the year and you kind of touched on it a little bit in your comments on the TEN and Sovereign.
So if I just look at Q1 right 130 your deliveries are kind of - M1 M2 Citation 10 start to come in but should we actually expect this quarter to be the high watermark for Sovereign? You are kind of caught up on a little spike and unit volumes really don't rise sequentially from here on Sovereign? They probably won't Jeff; part of this is an artifact of the fact that we certified the airplane so late by the time we got through everything in the fourth quarter.
So there were a few Sovereign deliveries that we would have preferred to have made last year and that late certification which couldn’t get through the whole delivery process on a couple of them.
So it's a bit high in the first quarter but we should have reasonable volumes through the balance for the year as well.
Does that apply for M2 also that you had a Q4 Q1 catch up and it levels off or does that work its way higher sequentially over the course of year? I think the M2s are fairly stable through the balance of the year.
And then I was just wondering on pricing from what I can tell it looks like orders were flattish to down slightly book-to-bill's 0.9 or 1 depending on how you round some things.
So do you think the better pricing is negatively impacting order intake or am I'm missing something there? No I don’t think so Jeff.
I think a lot of it is just timing related as I said if you look at the amount of activity in the marketplace the number of customers sort of just where they are in the order cycle.
It's better than where we were before.
So as we look -- I mean obviously if it wasn’t a signed order book with a deposit we don’t put it into the backlog but there were a number of deals that were in negotiation and kind of working their way towards contract which has now been closing here as we entered into the beginning of the second quarter.
So from an order book standpoint in terms of meeting our plan we think the trend is positive.
And just a quick housekeeping one for Frank.
So just looking at in Q1 the $40 million of PT&amp;A step up that’s separate and apart from the $60 million of restructuring and acquisition cost is that correct? That’s right and yes we will continue to see that step up will flow through segment profitability and impact the segment for the year and then we also have additional restructuring charges that we will breakout separately it will be a separate impact.
Scott just back to Bell and the 412 and the deliveries I heard you say it was just all timing.
Could you speak a little bit though to and maybe any detail behind that were there fleet customers that they are transitioning? Is it literally just the dates that the customers want their aircraft and maybe just bigger picture about the demand for that specific model and what's in backlog and what you are seeing? Sure.
I mean it really was just timing Joe.
We haven't seen a change in the demand of 412.
As you know a lot of times 412s do tend to be fleet orders and we had some fairly strong deliveries just again on timing in the first quarter last year of one of our larger fleet customers that had just scheduled a number of deliveries in Q1.
So as we look through the balance of the year again 412s do tend to come in fleet as opposed to sort of onesie twosies but I think in terms of customer demand fleet orders customer activities that’s why we still feel pretty good about the total year 412s.
And you expect to be you did 36 last year you still expect to be higher than that for that model this year? Sorry Joe I would have to go and look at my sheets on the exact number of 412s and we don’t usually publish that number but I don’t think it's appreciably different one way or the other.
It really is but our quarter is.
And then on maybe I missed it but on Beech what are the cost saves that are actually baked into your guidance now for this year? Not annualized but actually in the plan here? We haven't given that Joe and obviously -- I mean first of all we only have nine months.
We’re in the process of incurring at this point most of the cost associated with those restructuring activities.
So we’re not going to break that as a separate number but we included all that in terms of the numbers we have given you in terms of restructuring as well as the overall net margin number and so I don’t think we will break that out number separately other than to tell you it's receipt is about an 80 million run-rate for next year.
I'm just trying to think about the compare going into next year compared to this year how much I mean we get -- the step-up I assume doesn't recur you get a full year benefit obviously of EBIT.
But then how much incrementally do we get from the cost saves in ‘15 versus ‘14 if we don't know what's in ‘14 it is hard to make that comparison.
That’s part of the overall 200 basis point normalization Joe.
So it's part of that.
Okay.
Could you actually just run through that again I heard that number Frank but I didn't quite get it in your prepared remarks the 200 basis points? So if you look at a full year sales impact of Beech and if you look at the impacts that we expect to flow through from the purchase price impacts which are relatively modest going into ’15 but impact ’15 by about $65 million and then you look at the expected saving is coming off of that 80 million run-rate that we talked about.
You would get on a same volume as 2014 a 200 basis pick up in Textron Aviation margins.
I think gives you all the elements of the number and the reason we’re not trying to obfuscate anything the reason we are doing it that way is it's hard to identify and will be hard to identify as we move forward here kind of all of the cost savings and where things come from and everything else and we’re really looking as a consolidated segment operations and just trying to focus on kind of what our cost structure will look like in ’15 and therefore core profitability levels.
Fair enough.
And just one more.
You've talked Scott quite a bit about demand for some of the individual Cessna models and pricing.
I just wanted to touch on something that emerged a little bit last quarter which is the competitive environment in really in the midsize area in particular.
Is this something that's getting a little better? You've talked quite a bit in the past about how tough it is out there and I know you don't want to declare victory at all but is everyone seeing things getting a little better and maybe taking a little more price across the board? I think that’s happening Joe.
As I said on our legacy product where we compare price on a year-over-year basis prices are up across the line.
So but again it's still a very competitive market.
I mean every deal is a fight but I think as we go through that process obviously as demand is firming and a lot of is backed off in terms of how much capacity or what production run-rates are going that’s had the desired effect exactly as we anticipated it would.
So we’re starting to see that price firming having some price firming in the used market giving people that are out there looking to sell a little bit better collateral value as well as frankly just a stronger market so they can transact and get the liquidity.
I mean all those things I think are factoring into just a strengthening in the overall market and therefore you will expect a little bit of strengthening on the pricing side.
So it's not overwhelming obviously.
We would like to see it stronger but it's certainly improved over where we have been and that reflects in some of the improved pricing.
Scott you had good deliveries of the Sovereign and the M2.
Obviously some backlog spillover from the fourth quarter.
Should we expect the seasonal pattern here because of those strong deliveries in the first quarter that you are really flat to up in the second flat to up in the third as you burn off that initial backlog and then a big fourth quarter is that as you think about the quarterly pattern is that the way to think about it? I think that’s mostly correct Cai.
I mean that’s been sort of the nature of the business obviously last year we had very challenging second third quarters and then a much bigger fourth quarter.
We would like to see a flatter profile just in terms of -- it’s a little easier to run the business and little bit more productive to run the business a little bit flatter.
But as we look through the course of the year right now we would expect it to be sort of up slightly as we move our way through the quarters incrementally.
We expect deliveries of the TEN to come in here in the second quarter as Scott indicated which will impact things.
Right.
But I assume it is later in the quarter if you still have the paperwork to go or are you just all set so you could do you three of them in the quarter.
Yes and I think we will do several TENs we have customers that are kind of standing by and ready and wanting these aircraft.
The certification -- as we talked about before slid from where we wanted to do it.
We would originally like to have done at the end of last year and we just couldn’t get through that in terms of prioritizing getting the Sovereign through the process flight testing has taken longer than we expected and we have customers that are waiting for their aircraft.
So once the paperwork is done we will certainly get a few deliveries here in the quarter.
So you delivered eight King Airs in the quarter.
Can you give the split between the 350 250s and the 90s and maybe give us some -- a little more color on where you expect those three models to be for the year? I don’t know if I’ve the exact number here in front of me it was weighted towards 350s Cai.
And I think the full year will be weighted more towards 350s.
Okay.
Good.
And then a last one so if we back out Beech you did a 1.8% margin in the first quarter at Cessna and I think your guide is 2.5% to 3% excluding Beech and seasonally things get better.
You are talking about pricing improving.
Is that a realistic number? Does that have upside or is there something else happening in terms of the funding of R&amp;D that would make that the real number and not really a bit conservative which is the way it looks? I think it's a realistic number Cai.
As always we have said we will have a little bit better incremental volume as we go through the year not dramatically but I think we will also with the TENs coming in we have a mix that’s more oriented towards a combinations of TENs and Sovereigns which is good mix for the business.
Right but I guess my point is if volume is going up and you have a 25% plus incremental margin and mix is going your way one would think you would get a little bit more than what is it 70 to 130 bps off the first quarter given the seasonality you've got.
Again as we look at this right now Cai we don’t see significant increases in terms of quarter-over-quarter.
It will be up slightly but not dramatically.
Just a couple of questions to follow-up on the Cessna line of questioning.
Scott can you give us some sort of feel for how demand is for the Latitude? I know it was received well but is there any maybe color you can put around that or numbers or something? Well we haven't been giving order books specifically by model.
We have a number of orders already in the book for Latitude for sure.
But I think as we have talked about it before at this stage of the game we really need to have aircraft that are flying and fully outfitted and able to do demos and things of that nature and really start to build out that order book into 2015.
We have the initial aircraft that’s up and flying.
We have a couple of more that are in process including one of the aircraft which will be fully outfitted with the real interior design and that will be the aircraft which will be going to shows and starting to perform customer demos and I think we won't see a lot of order activity until that aircraft is out there because at this stage of the cycle I think before somebody lays a deposit on a $16 million $17 million [ph] airplane.
They want to see the real airplane and sit in the airplane and take a flight in the airplane.
So we understand that and we have the first couple of aircraft obviously we’re more dedicated to flight test programs.
We’re in the process of building out the first one that will be a customer demo aircraft.
Okay and then maybe shifting gears a little bit.
How is it is there an early read yet on how the move into flight simulation has gone with the integrated product last time I was up in Rhode Island we were talking about how Textron wants to offer an integrated package to the customers with flight simulation.
And how is that going? I would say right now we’re very happy with how it's going.
Our order rate on the simulator side of the business is doing very well.
There is a ton of opportunities out there in both the commercial air transport market as well as a number of different business jets and helicopter programs.
We already have our first development underway to support our own products that being the Bell-525 simulator.
So the team down in Florida is already started to work with the Bell team in the design and development of the 525 sim and so I would say obviously we’re only a few months into this thing but I feel very good about where we’re.
The thing is performing as we expected and the order rate seem to be pretty good.
Okay great and then maybe one last one back to defense.
My favorite product the Scorpion.
Last time we spoke you had mentioned that maybe by the end-of-the-year a customer would emerge.
How do you feel about that still and how is that program going.
So the program is going extremely well.
The aircraft is flying terrifically.
It's already over last week exceeded it's flight envelope so we have seen speeds in excess of what we’re advertising and still had more throttle push for the thing.
So the aircraft is flying very very well.
The guys are super happy with it and it's where we expected it to be.
We have a lot of marketing sales activity underway right now.
We have conversations going on with a number of different customers.
We have had customers that have actually come into Wichita to see the aircraft so I feel pretty good about where we’re.
But there is a big ways to go to get from that to where somebody signs the dotted line and actually places an order for the aircraft.
So by the end of this year I still think that’s a possibility.
We’re working hard to try to make that happen but I would say there is still a lot of work to make it happen.
Two questions.
First question is in regards to Cessna after market I realize that's something that you report in more detail annually than quarterly but how is it tracking as we finish the first quarter and enter the second quarter? It continues to track positively.
I say it's probably up mid-single digit kind of numbers.
Nothing out of the ordinary there? No you know for that business Justin if it just kind of continues to march along at that rate that’s very healthy.
I mean it's really driven by aircraft utilization and people coming in for service activity and what not.
So that’s one where you kind of expect to see nice steady growth that’s what we have been seeing and expect to continue see on the Cessna side and frankly we expect and just kind of factor that in as well in terms of Hawker and King Air size of business.
And my second question is just a little bit more general.
You've been in your role now for around four years and you're really taking a big step forward and consolidating the private aviation market with this Beechcraft acquisition.
What is the company going to look like in three years from now and what would make you disappointed three years from now if something doesn't transpire as you expect it to? I think Justin if you look at what’s really going to drive the business over the next few years particularly within the aerospace aviation side of this be that the aviation segment or Bell is -- I mean obviously you’re doing something like the Beech acquisition is a big deal but I think over the next few years what’s really going to drive our success in large part has to do with driving these new product program.
So we have the Latitude hitting in ’15 we got lot of other activity at Cessna we will talk about it in the future in terms of new products and when you look over it at Bell you got the 525 the 505.
I mean these are big programs that I think are resulting in products that are going to drive a lot of demand and share for our businesses in the market.
So those investments we’re making which are pretty significant right now.
You know really are the things that are going to drive our performance improvements over the next few years.
And it's interesting to hear you talk about new product.
With respect to Beechcraft I mean clearly that is an investment that is as large as many of the combined new product investments you are making.
What would be the upside scenario in Beechcraft and is it as likely now as it was when you announced the deal? We certainly feel just as good about it as when we announced it.
The market we think is still performing well for the King Air product line.
It's a great product; it's always been very well received.
Customers like it and it's a workhorse in that industry.
Obviously it's going to require sustained levels of new product investment and R&amp;D and upgrades and just like the jet business does so there are things that are announced out there that will be upgrades to that product line as it moves forward but I think what we thought we were acquiring in terms of that product is exactly what we got.
There have been no surprises whatsoever.
I think the brand is still in very good shape it's a strong brand in the marketplace good demand for the product and it's a great product.
It's exactly what we expected.
Yes just a follow-up Frank to the question earlier.
So in the fourth quarter you had $0.20 of operating benefit and $0.35 of restructuring for $0.15 dilution and now we got $0.08 so if you just -- what's changed in that? The restructuring number is smaller than the cost that we had thought at the time that we did it.
So I think if that’s the big delta George is the restructuring charges has come down a bit.
Okay.
And the operating number is about the same because it closed the same time you thought it would close? Yes I mean the operating number -- those were annualized numbers versus partial year numbers and so that has an impact.
As we indicated at the time we were going to have purchase price gross margin impact.
We have refined that number that's now expected to be about $65 million for the year and so I think it's largely a function of the partial year versus the animalization and then the -- a little bit of a change on that restructuring number.
And then just a follow-up Scott for you on the margin.
Is your comment that the margin won't go up a lot necessarily in subsequent quarters because the first quarter was somewhat high because of the high level of Sovereign deliveries which won't repeat? I think the margin rates will be incrementally better George because we will have obviously the Sovereign although Sovereign is probably a little stronger in the first quarter than the balance of the year because of the roll over for Q4 but then we also have the TENs based on now getting the certification done.
So the volumes will be up slightly through the balance of the year and I think the margin mix will be favorable.
So we will see some incrementally better margins.
I was trying to follow-up to Cai's point arguing that I agree with his comment that incrementally you would think the margins; your guidance for the year would be low.
So I was just trying to argue that maybe the first quarter was a little bit higher because of the Sovereigns otherwise I still think -- I agree the margin is probably -- your guidance is probably low for the year.
There is no question we had a lot Sovereigns in the quarter we probably won't have quite that number of Sovereigns on a go forward basis.
We will have the TEN so I think we’re just having a friendly debate about how much better should they be.
Okay.
All right George thanks a lot.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes our call.
Thank you for joining us and we will see you next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!