Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Todd C.
Schermerhorn Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2011 form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2010 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 21 2011 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Kathy.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's second quarter 2011 earnings call and thank you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review second quarter product line revenue.
Todd Schermerhorn our Senior VP and CFO will review the income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q3.
John DeFord will review an update on our product development pipeline and I'll close with the Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2011 net sales totaled $725 million.
That's up 8% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and 5% on a constant-currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the second quarter of last year was favorable by 220 basis points.
As we previously reported we took a charge this quarter related to the proposed settlements of the hernia product claims which drove us to a net loss position on an as-reported basis for the second quarter of $47.8 million with a diluted loss per share of $0.55.
Excluding all items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Todd will cover later second quarter 2011 net income and diluted EPS were $141.7 million and $1.57 up 6% and 13% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to Q2 of last year second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 3%.
This is the lowest growth rate we've seen in the U.S.
in quite a long time.
When John Weiland takes you through the product line review you'll see that this softness in the U.S.
is across multiple product lines.
Specifically you'll notice reduced growth rates in product lines with no significant change in competitive dynamics such as our vascular stent and dialysis product lines which leaves us to conclude that the softness is probably bigger than just us.
As you know we don't have the public data for the most recent quarter yet since that data is always trailing.
So we're limited to the same reports and surveys that you see which do seem to indicate further softening in volumes especially in surgical procedures.
But all we really know for sure at this point is that we had a challenging sales quarter in the United States.
The positive sales news this quarter was that our International business grew 17% on an as-reported basis and 10% on a constant-currency basis making that the best quarter outside the U.S.
in 2.5 years.
Sales in Europe increased 5% on a constant-currency basis driven by continued strong execution with our SenoRx products.
And Japan grew 6% with minimal impact this quarter from inventory fluctuations or any lingering effects of the tsunami.
Our other international businesses grew 23% this quarter driven by 43% growth in our emerging markets as our strategic investments there continue to hit the mark.
We talk a lot about the portfolio effect here usually referring to the product breadth.
This quarter our geographic portfolios on display and our strategic moves outside the U.S.
over the last few years have produced our best recent international results.
You'll also hear more today about the contribution this quarter from the acquisitions we made in 2010 with the 2 that we've talked about FlowCardia and SenoRx we have demonstrated our ability to dramatically ramp sales and at the same time advance the product development pipelines that we acquire.
We believe one of our strengths is selecting the right targets and quickly integrating them into our model.
In Q2 we closed a small deal in Electrophysiology and we remain very active in the business development process.
With that let me now turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue? Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant-currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Growth in this category was 11% for the quarter.
Total net sales were $215.2 million up 15% over last year on an as-reported basis.
Our United States business was up 12% this quarter.
Internationally we grew 11%.
The softness in the U.S.
that Tim talked about impacted us in nearly every vascular product line this quarter.
Our Electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the second consecutive quarter.
EP Lab system sales were down 1% this quarter.
Revenue in our disposable EP product lines was down 1% impacted by our conventional EP catheters which were down 6% and Steerable Diagnostic Catheters which grew at a below trend 3%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 5% in the second quarter at the low end of our historical experience for this product line.
Our endovascular business increased 18% globally this quarter reflecting the last period with no SenoRx comp.
We are pleased with the performance of our European endovascular business which grew 17% its strongest performance in 10 quarters.
Within endovascular our Biopsy products were up 57% driven by the SenoRx products which increased 14% sequentially over the first quarter.
We continue to see strong growth across all geographies as we mark the anniversary of this acquisition this July with the launch of our next-generation vacuum-assisted console system named ENCOR ENSPIRE.
Excluding the SenoRx products our Biopsy business grew 9% in the second quarter.
The FINESSE vacuum-assisted biopsy device and our tissue marker line were bright spots for us this quarter as they continue to grow near triple digits for the third straight quarter.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 15% as we anniversary-ed the acquisition of our chronic total occlusion or CTO product line this quarter.
Our CTO and specialty small vessel product lines are experiencing nice sequential growth and we expect that they'll help us continue to see double-digit growth in PTA as we move through 2011.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were down 27% this quarter consistent with the trajectory we've seen recently.
Our combined stent and stent graft business grew at 1% this quarter.
Despite no changes in the competitive landscape we are seeing significant softness in the United States while internationally we grew 13%.
LifeStent was up 7% in Q2 snapping our 9-quarter streak of double-digit growth in this product line.
We're confident this is due to procedural volumes in the United States as the latest IMS data shows that we've gained share to the point that we believe we are now the market leader in the SFA space.
We continue to drive our new product pipeline and compile long-term data results to stay ahead of the competition here.
But I'll get in trouble from John DeFord if I steal his thunder so I'll let him give you the updates.
Next we'll turn to Urology.
Total net sales were $182.7 million flat this quarter on a constant-currency basis and up 2% on an as-reported basis.
The United States business was down 3% while internationally we were up 7% with emerging markets growing over 50%.
Our basic drainage business grew 3% globally in Q2 and was up 1% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 2% globally and down 3% in the United States which is consistent with recent experience here.
So no change to report at this daily used product line.
Our Continence business was down 17% in Q2.
We told you last quarter that we would have headwind in the comps due to the discontinuation of our Contigen product line.
Slings grew sequentially over Q1 but we were down against a tough comp from a year ago.
DIGNICARE was impacted by the delay in our highly anticipated next-generation device DIGNISHIELD.
We did launch the product in June in a controlled manner and we suspect that customers are delaying purchase in anticipation of the full launch.
We continue to see double-digit declines in the pelvic floor repair line.
We do have some news on our next-generation of pelvic floor products and John DeFord will provide update on those projects.
Sales in neurological specialties were up 2%.
The biggest product line in this category is brachytherapy which has been declining double digits globally for years but came in flat this quarter because the growing international business is now about the same size as the shrinking United States business.
Standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line grew 3% for the quarter the U.S.
sales being flat and international sales growing 23%.
We did have some minor supply issues in the quarter.
From a demand standpoint we're not materially off of our high single-digit growth trend.
We'll now discuss Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $192.8 million an increase of 6% over Q2 last year on a constant-currency basis and 8% on an as-reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4%.
Outside the United States sales were up 12%.
Our Port business was up 6% versus the Q2 last year with strong growth coming from emerging markets and Japan.
PICC revenue was up 9% this quarter with emerging markets starting to make and become a meaningful number growing over 100% this quarter over prior year and over 25% sequentially.
The rollout of our Sapiens Tip Confirmation System continues to go well and is picking up steam.
In fact of the accounts that have completed the evaluation phase of the sales process over 85% have committed to the product and over half of those accounts have already eliminated x-ray in their PICC placement procedures.
Between evaluations and conversions we're in well over 100 accounts at this point and our momentum is building.
So we like what we're seeing so far.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 2% this quarter and as we warned you on the last call the tougher comps started this quarter.
And to finish off Oncology our dialysis catheter business grew 6% in the second quarter with the United States being up 2% and international growing 15%.
Now let's finish up with surgical specialties.
Total net sales in this category were $110.9 million up 3% on a constant-currency basis and 4% on an as-reported basis.
United States sales were up 1% and international sales were up 8% for the quarter.
As Tim mentioned it appears that surgical procedures were off this quarter in the United States but this space is more active competitively as well.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 4% this quarter.
Within soft tissue our natural tissue products grew 27%.
We remain on offense here and we still have a big opportunity to grow share.
Our synthetic hernia repair products were down 2% from the second quarter last year consistent with our recent experience.
We did have 3 key product launches this quarter.
VENTRALEX ST for umbilical hernia repair was first and was in full market release mid quarter.
VENTRIO ST for ventral hernia repair was in limited release in June and had full launch just last week.
These new mesh products incorporate our patented lighter weight polypropylene mesh designs with the Sepra resorbable barrier technology.
Our proprietary and highly innovative ECHO PS mesh positioning system was in limited release at the end of the second quarter with about 70 cases performed and it has exceeded our expectations for feedback and performance.
We're moving to full launch next month and expect to drive share in the faster growing laparoscopic segment of the market where this product should reduce the surgical time required to position and fix the mesh to the abdominal wall.
That leads us to hernia fixation.
This quarter we grew 1% reflecting a decline in the United States and strong growth internationally including the sixth straight quarter of very high growth in Europe.
We've taken a lot of U.S.
share in past years.
Competitors are now responding and we are seeing significant trialing.
Closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business declined 9% for the second quarter in a row and our hemostasis business rebounded from a weak first quarter to grow 11% this quarter.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Todd Schermerhorn.
Thanks John.
Let me start with the items that affect comparability of our results between periods.
For Q2 we had charges for legal settlements and commitments totaling $195.9 million -- excuse me $195.5 million and acquisition-related items of $900 000.
We also reversed $1.1 million of the unspent restructuring charge we took in Q4 of last year.
The legal settlements included $184.3 million related to the hernia matter as we included in our recent 8-K and 4 small unrelated matters totaling $11.2 million.
These items are detailed in the notes of the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Let's go to the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $449.5 million or 62% of sales down 90 basis points from the prior year quarter.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 40 basis points year-over-year.
We were looking for a modest sequential improvement in GPs over the first quarter but we didn't see it.
Price erosion was greater than we expected this period with 80 basis points on sales and the soft surgical sales hurt our mix.
Looking forward the softer sales volumes will also dampen our manufacturing efficiency.
So we still expect sequential GP improvement into Q3 and Q4 but I'd say we're a bit less bullish than we were a quarter ago.
SG&amp;A expenses were $196.8 million for the quarter or 27.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis it was $196.1 million or 27.0% of sales reflecting a 20 basis point decrease from the prior year period.
The restructuring savings we expected in 2011 are right on track and we are controlling our discretionary expenses well.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $46.9 million for the second quarter 6.5% of sales down 10 basis points from the prior year on an adjusted basis.
This is obviously lower than our guidance.
As we began to see softness in the U.S.
sales we became a little more conservative with our investments.
Again we haven't cut any programs but we're being cautious about spending on new projects.
Interest expense was $9 million for Q2 consistent with last quarter.
Other income expense was $194.1 million of expense for the second quarter.
Reflecting the items we talked about on an adjusted basis it was $400 000 of income.
Effective tax rate this quarter is really only meaningful on an adjusted basis at 28.4% which is in line with our full year guidance.
We'll use cash out of Puerto Rico to settle the hernia claim so that charge has very little tax credit against it causing the reported tax rate to be inflated.
Our diluted shares for the period were $86.2 million.
Because of the reported loss we don't calculate dilution the same way so the basic and diluted shares were the same this quarter.
On an adjusted basis diluted shares were 88.6 million.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash and short-term investments of $911.9 million versus $748.3 million at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 0.2 days and inventory days were down 1.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $15.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $901.1 million at June 30 compared to $895.3 million at March 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the second quarter was about 32% and total shareholder investment was $1.875 billion.
Moving on to financial guidance for Q3 we're expecting constant-currency sales growth of 4% to 6% assuming we continue to see a weak U.S.
demand environment.
At today's rates currency would add between 250 and 300 basis points to those results.
From an earnings perspective we are expecting Q3 EPS in the range of $1.57 to $1.61 excluding items affecting comparability if any.
We remain focused on the $6.38 target for the full year although with more modest sales assumptions now we'll need to be more selective with our investment agenda.
I will now turn you over to John DeFord.
Good evening.
So far this year with a couple of exceptions our new product launches have been in line with our planning.
A number of these launches occurred later in the first half and we'd expect to begin seeing some impacts from these new products in the second half of the year.
For the pipeline I'll start with our atrial fibrillation oblation technology named ENCOMPASS.
We're in the start-up phase of our multi-centered feasibility study to be conducted in centers outside the U.S.
and we're finalizing our submission seeking the CE Mark.
We expect to enroll up to 60 patients in this feasibility study and use those data to support our pivotal IDE submission in the second half of 2012 and provide marketing data for our European rollout.
Also in electrophysiology in Q2 we began the rollout of our new EZCROSS fixed curve sheet system to support septal crossing but don't expect to be in full launch until Q4.
We have a few other developments that support the A-Fib ablation procedure scheduled to launch over the next few quarters and we'll provide more details as we bring them to market.
In stents we reported in Q1 our submission of a PMA supplement including clinical data to support the expansion of the LifeStent family with lengths up to 200 millimeters a new delivery system and enhanced x-ray visibility.
Late in Q2 we received a request for additional information and we responded a few days ago.
Contingent upon FDA approval we continue to anticipate launching in Q4.
We also completed development and bench testing of our next-generation stent graft targeted for the treatment of SFA disease and built upon the LifeStent and our proprietary graft technology.
We've received additional information from FDA in a pre-IDE discussion and now anticipate submitting our IDE late this quarter and commencing enrollment in roughly a 200-patient clinical study in Q4.
European launch is also expected in Q4.
In PTA in Q2 we launched our new RIVAL AV PTA family and expanded products in our dialysis access center-targeted Vaccess angioplasty line.
We're also on track to launch new diameters in our VASCUTRAK PTA family later this quarter.
Moving to filters in Q2 our dialogue with FDA concerning 510(k) review of the Meridian Vena Cava Filter continued.
FDA asked a few additional questions and we submitted our response a few days ago.
We believe we've addressed all the FDA's concerns and are prepared to launch Meridian upon FDA concurrence hopefully later this quarter.
Development of our next-generation DENALI filter was completed and we received conditional approval on our IDE in Q1.
Patient enrollment began just a few days ago and we're now actively recruiting for this 200-patient clinical study to evaluate both permanent placement and filter retrievability.
Our current timeline has enrollment continuing through Q3 of 2012 and U.S.
launch in the second half of 2013.
And in Biopsy we received 510(k) concurrence for our next-generation vacuum-assisted console system named ENCOR ENSPIRE and we're in the early stages of launch.
In addition we've recently launched our Contura cavity maintenance catheter.
This is a temporary balloon catheter that allows surgeons to maintain the lumpectomy cavity and track while awaiting diagnosis.
This new device is designed for an easy office-based removal or exchange to the Contura Multi-Lumen Balloon if partial breast irradiation is indicated.
Now turning to Urology Incontinence early in Q2 we received FDA concurrence for our ALYTE pelvic floor repair mesh with the sacrosuspension and sacrocolpopexy indications and the launch is underway.
We've also had several discussions with FDA over the last 2 quarters concerning the appropriate regulatory path for pelvic organ prolapse repair kits including our NuVia SI single incision system.
Though the U.S.
launch remains unclear based upon FDA's guidance we're submitting the NuVia SI 510(k) later this year but I really can't speculate on the timing of the U.S.
launch.
Nonetheless we're gearing up to launch NuVia SI in Europe later this quarter.
In the intermittent urinary catheter space we submitted a 510(k) this month for the first synthetic polyisoprene catheter.
We've named the product COMFORTGLIDE and designed it with the highly desired physical characteristics of a natural rubber latex catheter without the risks associated with latex allergies.
We anticipate launch of this product in 2012.
Now moving to Oncology we've begun the launch of our Sapiens TCS and Sherlock TLS integrated system for accounts that utilize non-Bard ultrasound devices.
We also have other TCS enhancements planned for launch in the coming year.
Our 3CG system that integrates ultrasound Sherlock Tip Location and tracking and ECG tip confirmation is being studied in the clinical trial we discussed in December.
We're continuing enrollment and now anticipate study completion in 2012.
Enrollment is much lower than we'd hoped and as a result of our rigorous study design that requires placement of the PICC and the 3D angio suite and the use of contrast to definitively identify patient vascular anatomy and catheter placement.
These requirements have made selection of suitable patients difficult.
However we believe the study design will further reinforce the reliability and accuracy of using the ECG per PICC tip placement.
In PICCs we launched several line extensions and custom kit options in the quarter.
We also received more questions from FDA on our thromboresistant PICC family including request for additional bench testing and clinical data that we feel are impractical to perform at this time.
We've halted this project and are evaluating other possibilities for bringing the technology to market.
On the other hand our antimicrobial PICC family named the COVERT PowerPICC is in the final stages of testing for 510(k) submission.
We've taken into account the FDA questions and intent surrounding the thromboresistant PICC family and are performing some additional testing that will push our 510(k) submission out until about September and we're hopeful for U.S.
launch around the end of the year or early next year.
Turning to Ports we're facing the same issues on the antimicrobial PowerPort family as we described with the thromboresistant PICC.
FDA has provided us a list of additional testing requirements that we don't feel we can justify performing given the low infection rates seen in ports.
So at this point we put this project on hold and are evaluating alternative solutions.
We'll let you know when we feel we have a viable plan to move forward.
And finally moving to surgery we've had a very busy launch quarter in ventral hernia repair as John described.
In the pipeline we continue to advance our antimicrobial ventral hernia repair products.
Our technology was unveiled early in the quarter at a poster session at SAGES where Dr.
Yuri Novitsky presented animal study results summarizing the performance of this antimicrobial technology.
We anticipate commencing our dialogue with FDA for this product in Q3.
Our recent antimicrobial experience with FDA on other products have left us a bit cautious of providing any filing our launch dates until we have further clarity.
I know we've covered a lot of information here and I thank you for your attention.
Let me now turn you back to Tim Ring.
Thanks John.
That concludes the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn it back to the moderator for questions.
Kathy? [Operator Instructions] That will come from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Perhaps any change in trend as you proceeded through the quarter and here we are at the end of July or just seemed like we're just going to bump along here for a while.
What do you think in general after the second half with U.S.
procedures? This is Tim Rick.
As we've kind of mentioned even going back to December we assume there will be no improvement in the environment this year.
Clearly the U.S.
business was softer in the second quarter.
And there was nothing that we've seen in the second quarter that would indicate that that's going to get any better any time soon.
And just 2 quick follow-ups.
Gross margins you talked about some of the issues there.
Should we think about a flattish margin in the third quarter or given the new products we should see it sequentially higher in each quarter? And last maybe you all can talk about surgical and your comment about more active competition and whether that's likely to persist.
Let me take the margin question first and then probably John will take the surgery situation.
As I said mix price and the volumes are all working against us I guess currently.
Really nothing dramatic in there Rick in terms of the change.
It's just that all those components are kind of going in the same direction at once.
And it's created a modest amount of pressure.
We weren't looking for a whole lot of improvement into Q2.
Maybe we did 62.1% in the first period and we're probably looking at 62.2% or 62.3%.
So we're dealing with 10 or 20 basis points.
I do think that we'll still see improvement sequentially into 3 and 4.
I think we're now probably talking about mid-62s whereas a quarter ago I might have said high 62s or even 63%.
And Rick as related to the surgical side and then the competitive arena there primarily the biggest change had been the entrance of J&amp;J into the fixation market which they really hadn't been a player in of any size up until recently.
They also launched a new mesh and I think in a full launch position for the entire quarter.
So they had the advantage on us in the quarter in terms of the new product pipeline that was delivered.
But on the same side we're back on the offense now with our new launches and that being the VENTRALEX ST VENTRIO ST and ECHO PS all have pretty unique positions for us and we also launched 2 new fixations or upgrades to our fixation platform.
So the name of the game is one new position at a time and we're right in the middle of that battle.
We'll go next to Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Todd as starting point you've mentioned pricing to be a little bit more challenging.
You said it was 80 basis points of pressure this quarter.
Can you put some context around that? One what would have been first quarter or last year? And then two are there particular areas where you're seeing more pricing pressure than before? Sure.
That sort of oscillated maybe between 10 basis points and maybe the highest would have been 30 over the recent past.
So it's effectively doubling or more I guess.
But still compared to what some other folks are seeing I mean we're still under 1%.
And I would say that what we saw this period was fundamentally in the U.S.
and arguably in markets where we're grinding out competitively.
Just a follow-up just a commentary we've heard from a number of companies this week and there are ones that hadn't reported yet that we've heard some commentary from.
And my one question is in your commentary would be that as you looked over the course of the quarter did you find June to be more challenging than you were expecting or June more challenging than April and May? And I'm talking -- this is up the U.S.
I've got to tell you Mike I don't think we know what the total sales growth is going to be till we get very very late in the quarter.
Obviously there are day differences all around the world and we work on and we're evaluated on such small differences.
200 basis points is a big deal here right? And so until we see really the final week in June I don't think we really know where we're going to be.
That having been said if we were to look back on it now I don't see a big difference between any one of those periods per se.
We then will move on to David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
This is actually John Demcheck [ph] in for David.
First off the gap between U.S.
and o U.S.
growth has kind of been widening.
And we saw the U.S.
was -- struggled through utilization and pricing.
But what was the cause of the o U.S.
relative strength? Were there any specific segments that stand out more than others? I'd say the investments that we made in emerging markets was probably the biggest change in trend.
For example in the first quarter in emerging markets we grew 29%.
In the second quarter we grew at 43%.
So I think that's reflective of the investments that we've made in these emerging markets.
We talked about last quarter the large increase that we made in our sales forces -- or investment we made in our sales forces a significant chunk of which went into emerging markets and I think we're seeing the results of that.
Okay very helpful.
We had organic growth decelerating I guess from 5% in Q1 to about 3.5% in 2Q.
And I guess you could still hit the guidance at this organic rate but do you expect reacceleration into the back half? I would say as we talk about the environmental aspect of it we've been -- in previous calls we've had we talked about one of the surprises I think the entire industry has had over the last couple of years is that the correlation between what's happening in healthcare and unemployment rates and clearly at least in the U.S.
the unemployment news didn't get any better in Q2.
So perhaps another confirmation that that still holds true and the outlook for that to get better on a macroeconomic level is still very questionable anytime soon.
So I think you'll still see that.
And I think you'll see the same dynamic that we've seen in emerging markets continue and we continue to make investments there.
So trend-wise that's what I assume we'll see going forward.
And if I can add a little granularity to the change during the quarter I mean the big swing was the United States growth rate which was at 3% versus 7% in the first quarter.
And you know that number it represents about $20 million differential in terms of run rate in sales.
And we really kind of limit we looked at that and it was really in 3 pieces.
It is in the Vascular business which represented about $10 million of that change.
And then Urology and Surgical split the remainder.
And as we look at it in Vascular it was really confined to PTA and stents and the answer to changing that downstream is what happens to the base growth rates but also what happens to the uptick in our new products.
And I think there we're highly focused on execution with our new 200-millimeter LifeStent which John mentioned will be out in Q4 the new stent graft for Europe which we hope will deliver in Q4 the new RIVAL PTA products which we just launched in Q2 the Meridian filter which we hope we'll be in a position after approval by the FDA for launch in Q3; and the new ENCOR ENSPIRE system which we launched in Biopsy recently.
So that's the key to vascular.
If we look at Urology about half of the issue there was in StatLock which what we thought was an unusual aberration just in terms of demand.
And the other half in the Continence.
The Continence issue will stay because as we told you before that Contigen business was about $10 million annually.
So it's $2.5 million a quarter.
The key to us there is going to be DIGNISHIELD launch when that's available.
And we also launched recently in StatLock some new PICC dressing kits.
So that's the offset there that we're going to be driving.
And then I guess if we get to Surgical the issue was about $5 million for us in surgical split between biologics and fixation and the real key there is again the new product launches that I mentioned earlier.
VENTRALEX ST VENTRIO ST ECHO PS and our new additions to the fixation line.
So wherever you saw the weaknesses that drove the trend down the key has got to be new products to drive us back up into the growth rates.
And one more quick one post the May appeals process court filed a lawsuit on Flair and Fluency.
I don't think you've commented on it yet but just wanted to know if you've responded to the lawsuit legally? Of course we'll respond legally.
We're not going to get into exactly what the steps are there.
Next we have Larry Keusch with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> Just I want to make sure I understand what is being said here.
It sounds a little bit like you're suggesting that procedures may have weakened a little bit.
But I want to make sure that I'm understanding that or are you saying it's stable? And are we really talking about just you didn't get all the products out and you've got some product gaps here and you really need to execute on those product launches to kind of get growth back to where you thought? I think it's a little bit of both of those things.
As the data lags on the market data so we won't know for sure for probably another quarter or so what actually occurred but it feels to us like that it slowed down a bit for sure in surgical procedure area.
And then John just kind of went through a fair amount of detail on those product launches and the timing of those and I think some of those got launched very very late in the quarter especially in the surgical area.
So as we mentioned we hope those will pick things up end of the year.
Inc.</strong> And Tim I recognize that -- just 2 questions for you I recognize number one it's early it's hard to tell what's going on out there relative to the procedures.
But again the economy's been adding jobs albeit slower than perhaps people would like but it was a rocky soft patch in this second quarter do you potentially think it's people sort of reacting to that and maybe get back to kind of the levels we're seeing in the first quarter? And then the second question is obviously you guys are going to manage your discretionary expenses to make sure that you're focusing on the EPS targets but how do you balance that discretionary spending and fueling R&amp;D for future growth? Because it seems like that's obviously going to be very important here.
Yes.
We'll deal with the second part of the question first.
The strategy hasn't changed here.
We still believe as you heard throughout the formal part of the presentation John answered the question that was asked new products are a big driver of growth here.
And where we've had them as you can see by some of the individual product line results and they're best-in-class products they do pretty well.
So we still think that's the answer.
We're very cognizant of our commitments relative to earnings.
And when you slow down a little bit you just have to be a little bit more careful about the choices you make and the timing that you ramp up the spend.
But strategically nothing is changing here.
We still believe we have product leadership is the answer.
We just have to be responsible maybe is the best way to say it in terms of managing the business as we go through a little bit of softness on the revenue line.
Inc.</strong> Then again just a question of again scratching your heads on why things may have slowed down into Q2? I cannot just -- I'm not an economist.
I just think there was a lot more uncertainty in the second quarter this year kind of across the board.
Everything -- I was just in a meeting a couple of days ago with some insurance company CEOs.
Obviously they've been performing well financially because the utilization rates have gone the other way.
So they get the benefit of that in their results.
In their comments and there were hospital CEOs in the room and everyone's kind of talking about things certainly not improving.
Say in what part of the country they're in they may be saying about same.
Some places are getting worse and I think if you could look at the unemployment rates in those various regions and they correlate pretty closely.
We have Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
So again back to the U.S.
growth and thinking about that sequential decline there and I appreciate you guys breaking all that down for us.
It's very helpful.
But I guess my question is you talked about price.
How much of that sequential decline was volume versus price? You mentioned that 50 basis points roughly but in terms of the sequential 400 basis point decline is it 80% volumes and 20% price? Well price went from I think 30 basis points Bob to subpoint A.
And we do have mix in our calculation year-over-year.
But certainly mix sequentially didn't get any better.
So you really have the remainder is volume.
And then as you look at the Vascular business how confident are you that that's not some share loss? I mean how good do you think it is your feedback from the field that you just didn't get the products out and maybe lost a little share.
How confident are you that that's a decline in procedures? Well let's look at the 2 pieces that I talked about PTA and stents which were the gaps for us.
In PTA we continue to be the market leader.
We've launched a number of new products recently.
And there's been from our vantage point there's been no share shifts at all in PTA.
In stents the IMS data tells us from Q1 that we're now the market leader in the SFA segment of stenting.
And there have been no new entrants to the SFA segment recently.
So we don't see any change in the competitive dynamics in that business.
And that was for the quarter the largest shift in terms of the percentage point reduction in the U.S.
growth rates.
And then Tim I'm just curious from the hospital relationships that you have.
I mean a lot of us do surveys and have been getting back data on utilization and you guys are looking at your own data and coming to some conclusions.
But I'm wondering as you communicate with hospital leaders throughout the course of the second quarter were you actually hearing directly from them that boy second quarter utilization seemed to fall versus first quarter? Or is it more just you're looking at your data and coming to some conclusions? Yes it's more the latter.
It really depends who you're talking to and where they are.
I mean in this one particular meeting there were a couple of guys that said we're about same as we've been things haven't gotten worse maybe even a little better.
And then you have another guy from another city with a big group saying things are horrible and they've gotten a lot worse.
So it's very difficult to get a common trend.
You almost have to take it case-by-case and that's kind of how we look at it.
Inc.</strong> And Todd what was the M&amp;A contribution in the quarter last one? SenoRx was $15 million this quarter.
The next question is from Michael Matson with Mizuho Securities USA.
I guess just with regard to your emerging markets business you mentioned -- I just want to confirm the growth rate it was 43% correct? That's right that's correct.
Did you say what percentage of your sales are coming from those markets? We did not.
But if you ask your next question we'll calculate it.
Can you tell me what it is? We will.
Just go on and we'll go -- we'll get it.
So the antimicrobial PICCs and ports I guess I'm just wondering what's going on there because it seems like there's a couple other companies out there with antimicrobial PICCs that didn't seem to have the difficulty that you guys are having.
Was that just the fact that they were able to kind of get theirs through the FDA before the FDA started to get a little more cautious on those products and other things? Well Michael I think there's a couple of issues there.
First off it's the thromboresistant PICC that we got some questions on.
The antimicrobial PICC we've yet to submit our 510(k) on.
The thromboresistant PICC there are predicates out there.
FDA has taken a very limited view now of saying if your technology doesn't have exactly the same mode of action as a predicate you know it does the same thing then it's different and we're going to treat it differently.
On the antimicrobial port we faced that issue.
On the thromboresistant PICC we faced that issue.
On the antimicrobial PICC we feel like with our 510(k) that's going in later this quarter we feel like we've got a clean predicate straightforward mode of action same kind of technology those kind of things.
And so we think we've got a possibility to get home with that product.
Likewise in our hernia repair business we feel like we've got a strong predicate with the same mode of action in our antimicrobial there.
So we've got a different viewpoint from FDA these days on how they're treating this kind of technology.
They're taking a very very limited view which on a historic basis wasn't the case.
And so you could clearly argue that the products that entered the market entered at a time when FDA -- before FDA had made these changes.
And now we're dealing with the consequences.
Mike back to your other question.
Emerging market's about 5% of the total.
Then just another related question on the international business and more broadly international -- sorry emerging markets more specifically.
Are any of those -- in any of those countries and regions are you selling through stocking distributors at all or do you have direct sales force and were there any stocking orders in the quarter that contributed to that big step up in the growth rate that you saw? The driver of the largest portion of that growth differential would be China.
Everybody sells through dealers but there has not been any big moves in inventories in China.
Okay.
And then your margins on your international business I mean your gross margin was pretty stable in the quarter -- or sequentially so is it safe to assume that just overall international margins are consistent with your U.S.
margins I guess at both the gross and operating levels? I think that's right at the gross margin level Mike.
I would say consistent with our global numbers would be the way to think about it.
And that business the emerging markets business is probably half China or better and those are pretty good margins for us certainly the corporate average.
As it relates to operating margin we're not investing in R&amp;D and all that in those businesses.
So it's not a relevant comparison.
Okay fair point.
And then finally just on the -- is there any common update you can give on where things stand with the Gore patent suit? I guess there were oral arguments in early May and I haven't -- with the filings recently so I'm just wondering if you could provide an update on where that stands? We're just waiting for a ruling from the Appeals Court.
I would say a couple of things.
There's been plenty of talk out there relative to Gore.
Just want to leave investors with a couple of notes of caution here.
Even if we were to win at this phase and we would agree that a win here would certainly stack the odds in our favor there are still more procedural steps and more hurdles to go through.
If we are to ultimately win we don't think we're going to see any cash until well into 2012 and maybe even later.
So I just want to make sure that everybody's got sort of the timing of this straight in their head.
Secondly if we were to win ultimately we would look to invest some portion of that earnings power between the royalty rate and the cash value back into the business.
I think -- I can't tell you today exactly what that is but I know our first thoughts would be to think about the strategic use of that.
So there's more to come there at the appropriate time but I just wanted to make sure everybody understood that.
That was helpful.
That was exactly what I was looking for.
We have David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
This is actually [indiscernible] in for David.
I just had one quick question for you most of mine have been answered.
Taking a look more specifically on the pricing pressure line have you guys seen any price pressure involved in the peripheral stenting space and LifeStent? We have seen a bit in the LifeStent.
Part of that is us being a little more aggressive on a share standpoint from those people that had not converted earlier into it.
But I think that most of the pricing has been -- we've driven that more than anybody else driving it.
We go to Jason Wittes with Caris &amp; Company.
First question I had is on meshes.
You mentioned several new synthetic meshes in the pipeline but I recall you guys had also discussed coming out with a new biologically derived mesh this year.
Is that still on track or how should we be thinking about that? Yes so we've got new biologically derived mesh technology and offering that's really you can look at it more line extension but we're certainly on track and expect to launch at least one of those new offerings later this year.
And just looking at your pipeline or recalling your pipeline you had a couple more for next year.
I assume those are also more line extensions than entirely new biologically derived meshes? We haven't talked about that in great detail.
I'd say one of them we're looking at next year is a line extension and another one is a real new technology.
Okay and related to meshes the FDA put out an advisory specific to pelvic organ prolapse just recently.
I don't know.
How does that impact your business or your outlook for 2011? Well I think we've been in discussions with the FDA for quite a while now on our NuVia SI Pelvic Organ Prolapse technology.
And they've been kind of all over the map with what they wanted and it's still a bit up in the air.
Now as they have said most recently of course they put out a public health notice and they also stated that they're calling a panel meeting later this year to get a panel together of experts to give some greater guidance on what they want.
They kind of moved to we want randomized data.
Then they got feedback that randomization would be very difficult and so they've kind of walked away from that.
And now they're moving toward having a panel come in and provide additional detail and information.
So I'd say at this point we're submitting our 510(k).
We're not giving any guidance right now on what we think is going to happen there.
We think this is going to take some time and FDA is certainly being very cautious.
Just one piggyback question on pricing.
Was there some contract-related changes that occurred this quarter? And related to that do you expect similar type fluctuations throughout the year or do you think what we saw this quarter is kind of reflective of what we're going to see for the rest of at least 2011? There would have been nothing significant at all from a contract change.
Now having said that in the U.S.
anyway we annually renew or sign somewhere between 30 and 40 contracts a year.
They tend to be multiple-year contracts.
And that's been an ongoing thing that's been that way for years.
So nothing out of the ordinary course I guess is the best way to answer that.
We have Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Todd a couple for you.
On the gross margin I assume that you still had a decent improvement in manufacturing/cost benefit? Can you give us an idea how much that was in the quarter? Yes sure.
Let me give you the pieces Matt.
We actually were flat in manufacturing cost and really that's because of a weak December that was deferred into the second quarter.
As a result we talked about the fact that we're adjusting inventories in Q4 and the last month there was actually our weakest month and so that rolled into Q2.
And so -- but as it relates to cost I think we're still fine relative to our outlook there.
This is just a little bit of a timing issue.
So it was not great here this period.
Let me give you the pieces though of margins.
So FX is about 10 or 20 basis points unfavorable and I know that sounds a little crazy given the overall FX but the effect on margins is not always intuitive.
Mix was 20 or 30 basis points favorable although I would say we were looking for a little more.
Price was 30 basis points on margin so 80 basis points on sales converts to 30 basis points unfavorable on margin.
We had new amortization of 40 basis points as we said in the script.
We had that Puerto Rico excise tax reclass issue so that's another component here and that's between 10 and 20 basis points.
I know it sounds very busy so I hope you're working with your pencil there Matt.
And then cost is about 10 or 20 basis points unfavorable this period.
But I don't think that's a trend that will continue.
And you commented earlier about potentially slower manufacturing because of U.S.
volumes.
Is that something that could impact the cost 2 quarters from now sort of what you're seeing the lag? Yes next quarter really.
It's about a 4-month lag in general over the life of the inventory.
And then one more for you Todd.
Tax rate doesn't seem to change but with emerging markets growing a lot faster U.S.
starting to slow I would assume the profit mix is finally moving more o U.S.
Can the tax rate finally maybe show some improvement? Well some of that Matt is export business.
So there's U.S.
profitability in there.
I think the bigger trigger is Puerto Rico and we were moving pretty well there and we thought maybe we had some upside in the tax rate but unfortunately surgery is tied into Puerto Rico.
So we got to wait and see how that works itself out before we know finally where that tax rate will go for the period.
So we're 28.4% for the first 2 periods.
I think we're comfortable there and we'll see as we work through the year whether there's upside.
Strategically that 5% business in emerging markets isn't going to move the number initially.
Next we have Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
just wanted to get your view on your momentum internationally.
For example where are your sales reps at that you hired late last year in terms of productivity at this point? Well as we launched that large expansion in emerging markets a little bit over 100 people for example and we completed that about the end of the year.
And the early part of the first quarter was used for training getting people acclimated to their territories et cetera.
From our vantage point Q3 Q4 we should really start to see some productivity out of those folks.
And then Todd you sort of talked about this a little bit in your answer to the last question but as far as new products go that you're launching and given the slowdown that we're seeing domestically on the procedure side are you able to still capture mix benefits or do you have an expectation that you won't be able to get as much pricing premium going forward given what we're seeing on the macro side? Well we still have a little bit of mix benefit as I said the 20% to 30%.
I just -- I think it will be a function of where the surgery products go as to whether we get -- they're high-margin products as you know.
As to whether that grows or not it will be really dependent upon the trajectory of those products.
But the ones you launched in Q2 you're still able to get similar type of premium? Oh yes definitely but just there's not enough sales in there initially.
I mean we're working with a couple of weeks and a couple of days in some cases on some of those products.
So there's not enough dollars to really move the needle.
Obviously we hope there are as we get to Q3 and Q4.
We will go next to Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Share repurchases did you do any in the quarter where is your head on that for the next couple of quarters to make your EPS goal? We did not do any in the quarter Joanne.
It's very problematic to buy shares alongside of an ASR.
So we need for the ASR to complete before we would be back in the market.
We expect that -- so we saw shares 88.6 is up from 87 even in Q1 and which we expect.
We think the ASR will end either in Q3 or Q4.
And so at that point we'd expect to be buyers of our shares again consistent with our historical patterns.
And you talked about third quarter revenue incorporating the slower U.S.
surgical markets.
Did you reiterate your full year thought process? We did not in total.
I think 5% to 8% for a full year guidance is still pretty good.
In fact if you go through all of our operating and financial guidance I think it's all solid maybe with the exception of the R&amp;D number.
I'm not sure we're going to get to 7%.
So I think the 5% to 8% is still intact as are pretty much everything else including the $6.38 a 14% increase in EPS.
And you have mentioned that you did a small acquisition in the quarter.
What was that? And what is your current thoughts towards using cash towards acquisitions? Well I'll take the second one first and that is it is what it's been Joanne.
We're always using -- looking to use our cash strategically first and we're as active as we've ever been just its opportunistic.
You're never quite sure what you're going to find and whether you're going to be able to meet the market.
As it relates to the technology that as really small to look...
That was a small technology that we acquired in the Electrophysiology business.
And so nothing of significant impact at least in the short term there.
We have Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
It's actually Katherine for Kristen.
Some of the other companies that reported noted weakness in Europe.
Your numbers seem okay.
Can you talk about why that is and what you're seeing there and specifically maybe on pricing there? Well we certainly see -- there's certain markets in Europe that aren't having a difficult time.
Obviously Greece and the U.K.
would come to mind first of all.
We've been very successful though in Europe with our rollout of the SenoRx biopsy products.
We acquired that about a year ago or so.
There was really very little sales in Europe from that product line and as Todd mentioned that $15 million run rate I think it's important to note that when we acquired it it was only about $10 million and that $5 million has been our own organic growth since we rolled that out to all those markets.
So I think that has been a very positive driver of our growth rates in Europe.
And then you kind of touched upon this but have your thoughts changed on the level of R&amp;D spending for the year or longer term given the weakness in the U.S.? Well as Todd mentioned we have guided to $7.5 million.
Given sales softness it's probably going to be tough to get there.
But directionally and strategically as I mentioned earlier we've not changed our thinking there.
We just have to kind of manage it within other things that we told you relative to earnings.
And we're still investing.
It's just the pace is a little bit slower than what we had told you it was going to be.
Next we have Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on the gross margins.
If price hurt 30 basis points in the first quarter and have hurt 80 basis points in the second quarter assuming prices don't go up it sure sounds to me the math would work out that it would hurt by more than 80 points in the third quarter.
Could you comment on that Todd? Well 80 is the number from a sales standpoint Bob.
Inc.</strong> I'm not talking about sales though.
I think the impact on margins was 10 and then 30.
And so I'm not following your math exactly here.
Inc.</strong> If the average price discount was 30 basis points in the first and 80 in the second and assuming that the price discount in the second didn't start on the first day of the quarter it must have gotten increasingly intense meaning that the third quarter would have to be more than 80 basis points of price decline.
That's possible Bob.
As we look out and forecast the business Bob I don't really get that discrete a level of breakdown because it's not an actual.
These are estimates around the world.
So I can't tell you exactly what level of price erosion or specifically how it impacts margins on a forecast per se.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to follow up on that if I can that once the payer has got to taste for a price decline and that they're able to get it and that you have to agree to it how do you know where it stops? How do you know it's 80 basis points going forward rather than 200? I mean what gives you the sense of confidence that we've had the price declines that we're going to have? A bit of a brainteaser there Bob.
I mean wouldn't that same situation have existed that when we went from 20 to 30? I admit that it was more of a change this period.
But there's always been a negotiation of price here.
That negotiation in the environment the context around it I don't think has changed that much.
I think with respect to a couple of these businesses we're grinding it out competitively and we're meeting the market and maybe that the market is dropping and to meet the market those are the values.
Bob just historically you got to look at this thing too.
I mean it's a very difficult question here.
And I'm not sure there's an answer to it.
2008 for the full year we were 20 bps positive.
2009 we're negative 10.
So if you figure you lock in your prices for a year in a contract you would have thought 2009 would have been positive.
It just doesn't tie that exactly to be able to give you an answer.
I think the piece of the equation is new products too.
I mean as you're waiting for a new product to come out and you have to meet a price in the market to hold onto your business waiting for your new product to be able to engineer where you can get a premium that has it.
And I will tell you that one of the bigger chunks was in the Surgeries business this quarter.
So I mean as we're able to offset that with new products and selling premiums I think there's -- that's the opportunity to afford that phenomenon that you speak about Bob.
Inc.</strong> I've got a strategic question for you on the R&amp;D.
When you knew that the U.S.
procedural growth just wasn't living up expectations I guess you had a choice.
You could cut back on some of the R&amp;D programs and hit the 638 or say forget about the 638 you're going to maintain the R&amp;D programs.
And I'm curious why you chose the former and not the latter.
It's a great good question.
And again we're not getting strategically off to this.
But as you've seen us over the last couple of years there's more than just R&amp;D products and projects that stimulate the growth in the revenue line.
Acquisitions play a part of that too.
So when you sit there and you look at everything on your plate and you say okay we could get this from here you get that from there you just kind of make judgment calls based on what your pipeline looks like to generate your growth not only from your R&amp;D pipeline but from your acquisition pipeline too.
So there are some trade-offs there's no question that you're making.
We are very sensitive about the earnings situation.
So we think we can get the growth from a couple of different ways then we think we can manage the earnings at the same time.
And I think Bob it's important to note we haven't cut any R&amp;D programs.
We just have not been in a position to turn on additional ones that we did not budget yet this year for.
Jayson Bedford with Raymond James.
This is Eddie Onbridges [ph] calling in for Jason.
You talked about investments in emerging markets and in Europe that are yielding productively.
Are you still making investments there? How much more do you have to make? Where about in that progress you ended the quarter? Yes.
In fact we are in the process continuing to make large rollouts in the emerging markets.
We'll complete in the second half of this year an additional ramp equal to what we did in the fourth quarter of last year which we think will benefit us in terms of our ongoing growth rates in those markets.
So we are not pulling back at all on what our investment profile is in emerging markets.
And also in the synthetic market we're assuming that the market is growing about 2% to 3%.
Is that still fair? And when do you think or what do you think will drive you back to that level? We think that's a very fair viewpoint on the synthetic market overall.
Yes I mean over the longer term.
But whether it grew that level in the second quarter is impossible to know.
But over the long term that's where we saw it as well.
What do you think that will drive -- drive you or the market back to that sort of 3% long-term growth range? Well I think that to the extent that there are new products in that space and we have a number of them which we've launched recently that can have a positive impact on that.
In fact ours are a combination of synthetics and biologics in that space depending also -- it all depends on where you could categorize them we think that will have a positive impact on the synthetic space.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Thomas Kouchoukos with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Looking at -- just one question on I guess your hernia side and really off that last question.
Looking at the new synthetic products you just brought out it looks like VENTRIO and VENTRILEX are pretty straightforward well know type products.
ECHO PS actually looks very interesting but I'm wondering is there a learning curve that comes with that since it is a different type of approach and how fast can you kind of hit the ground running with that product? Well there certainly is a learning curve.
It doesn't take 10 procedures to learn that from a learning curve standpoint.
But there's certainly a couple of procedures until an individual physician gets comfortable with it.
But it's very obvious very quick to the physicians the unique advantage of the ECHO PS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Anecdotally I know it's early.
I mean are you getting kind of -- a lightbulb that goes off in the physician's head are they really attracted to the product? Yes this lightbulb goes off they understand the benefits of it particularly as it relates to time on their parts and the efficacy of the placement of the device.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> If I could follow with one more on just the Sapiens product or the Tip Location in general I think you said you're in 100 accounts at this point.
I know again it's really early with this product as well.
Maxed out how big is this market? I know there's pull-through that happens with your products as well but how do you size this market opportunity and how long is the process to kind of get to penetration? Well if you'd look at the whole PICC market and we're just launching in the United States there the United States market's a little bit over $350 million and this technology is applicable to the entire market in terms of the ability to place there and not have x-ray confirmation being necessary.
So I mean -- and it's from a vantage point worldwide also I think that the benefits of not having to use x-ray confirmation on when placing a PICC device becomes relatively intuitive once you learn exactly all the aspects of placing PICCs via ultrasound and Sapiens.
John have talked to you about it.
I think the other piece of this is just the timing and you're asking a little bit about that.
The typical trial is a couple of months to maybe 4 months in a hospital to really get some use of the products make sure that the team is trained and as John said we're getting very good conversion.
But it certainly takes some time and we expect that momentum will continue to build.
So it's not something that just blows out the doors in one day.
We are going out making sure that people are well-trained and the technology works well for them and then we're getting strong conversions.
So it's going to be a ramp it's going to take some time.
Then we'll go to Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
One macro question.
Trying to tease out from longer-term growth product growth versus geographic opportunities.
A lot of the larger diversified companies that we follow are really looking at Europe and U.S.
as kind of flat to low-single digit growth going forward and really looking at R&amp;D pipelines as necessary to sustain that but then are seeing big performance in emerging markets and opportunities.
And I wonder if you share that view in general.
And if so how do you see emerging markets as a contributor to your growth profile over the next 3 years? And where should we look at that as kind of a percentage of revenue over the same time frame? I'll take it and then I'll invite everybody else to jump in again.
We would agree directionally maybe our numbers in terms of the U.S.
market growth rates might be a little bit different from what you had echoed in -- to the positive.
But still in the kind of low- mid-single digit rates.
Europe probably a little slower than that.
I think the U.S.
-- the contrast to that is you still have demographics here.
And I think you'll see in the U.S.
if the economic situation improves that you'll see some of that come back eventually.
Clearly the focus that we've had over the last several years on emerging markets is starting to pay off and we'll continue to invest in those opportunities as well as continue to look at other markets that we're maybe not actively investing in at the moment that might be a little bit further behind the curve.
Having said that as we've alluded to in several points during the conversation today we still believe new products are a big driver of growth everywhere.
So we've got to continue to with product leadership remains our strategy and we'll continue to invest accordingly on the product side there.
So we think it's a combination of both those things.
So how do you feel probably over the next 3 years? What's the necessity of emerging market performance as a contributor to your growth profile? And I think you said earlier it's about 5% of revenue right now.
I mean where does that go? We don't give guidance out beyond the year but if you look at the growth rates that we've been experiencing in emerging markets anywhere from high 20s this quarter 43%.
It's 5% of our revenue.
So it's going to increasingly become a more important piece.
We do have a question from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just one on Vascular and one on R&amp;D.
Over on vascular the AMA created a bundle code for the lower extremity procedures so you no longer have separate coding for vascular access interventions and radiological supervisions.
So I'm wondering on the PTA side of the business does this provide a headwind for products like ATLAS and DORADO? And then on R&amp;D a lot of discussions here.
I'm just wondering on the cadence of product introductions what is the potential slowdown on R&amp;D spending needed for the cadence of product introduction.
Said another way is if you were at 7% or higher as a percentage of sales in this quarter in R&amp;D would you have had those new products out this quarter? We can handle the second piece and John will handle the first piece.
As we mentioned earlier we have not cut our R&amp;D spending versus our budgeted levels.
And as you know our products take a number of quarters to come out of our development pipeline to be commercialized finish clinical trials et cetera.
So we have not cut any R&amp;D spending in the organization and as a result of that we don't see where that would have an impact on next quarter's sales because we're consistent with what we budgeted this year in terms of R&amp;D.
That said these projects take time and throwing money at it doesn't necessarily speed it up.
And so had we invested more money in the last quarter wouldn't have sped up these launches in any meaningful way.
On the bundling side on reimbursement you're right there's some changes in the coding now.
As we looked at that there's actually some potential positive benefit around combination of PTA and atherectomy and there is a little bit of a change in reimbursement to kind of bump that in a positive direction.
And then there's offsetting some of the activities with PTA and stenting.
So we think that there are some opportunities here and there and obviously some risk associated with some of the reimbursement.
But we're not seeing a big impact from that at least at this point.
Thank you.
And gentlemen there are no additional questions.
So that concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Great.
thanks Kathy.
First of all I'd like to thank Bard employees around the world for their dedication and hard work again another quarter and thank all of you for spending time to join us this afternoon.
So that's it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.