Welcome to the USG Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Monica and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Brian Moore Senior Director Investor Relations.
Good morning.
And welcome to USG Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to our Investor Information Section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management’s current views and assumptions about business markets and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of today's press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
With me today to discuss the results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf President and CEO; and Fareed Khan Executive Vice President Finance and Strategy.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Fareed will then review the financial results for the quarter and will provide context to help understand the main drivers for those results.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
Also present for the question-and-answer session will be Rick Fleming Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jim? Thank you Brian.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us.
I know most of you are regular participants on these calls but I'd like to extend a special welcome if this is your first time joining our call.
My management team and I really appreciate your interest in USG.
USG is a great enterprise and I am proud to be at the helm leading and representing our employees worldwide.
There's not a more dedicated and committed group of people anywhere.
The progress we are making in this environment is a direct result of the hard work of our team.
For our customers who are on the call I want to take my personal thank you to you and we look forward to continuing to support your business with the finest products and services in the industry.
We really appreciate all of our customers.
Business conditions like the ones facing the U.S.
housing and construction market really test a company and its people.
Not many enterprises particularly in manufacturing and distribution business with a large infrastructure can navigate conditions like we have.
But this is exactly what we are doing at USG.
With no help from demand we continue to march towards profitability.
We've been aggressive on cost reductions but we have not compromised the fundamentals that make USG what it is a leader in building products.
We have one of the best safety records in all of corporate America.
We produce the highest quality products in the industry and we continue to lead with innovation.
Our top line results were essentially flat with last year but we continue to make improvements to our bottom line.
Our business is performing better with our largest markets still declining.
But still we are not where we want to be.
We remain relentlessly focused on profitability and growing our business.
We refer to this operating environment as a self-help type of market.
Market demand in the U.S.
is not going to be much help in the short-term so any gains that we're seeing are driven by our people and our operations.
This is truly a three-yards-and-a-cloud-of-dust performance.
In this self-help market we've reduced the operating loss by 30% versus last year.
This is still a loss but still a few more yards in the right direction.
We are confident the actions we're taking during this downturn has strengthened our company making it more efficient to drive long-term success such as our customer satisfaction our operational excellence and the innovation that you're seeing in the market today.
Our products and services meet a basic need.
We provide shelter.
It's where people live work and play.
The long-term demographics that drive demand for our products are favorable and we remain optimistic about our growth opportunities.
Now I'd like to briefly review the first quarter and then I'm going to turn it over to Fareed Khan who's going to give you a little more detailed look at the business.
Overall market dynamics during the quarter were mixed.
U.S.
housing remains at historic lows with little improvement and a lot of headwinds.
Housing starts in the first two months of this year were weak and the recent increase in March is still off of very low numbers.
Projections for total starts are in the 590 000 to 770 000 range and our forecast is about in the middle of that.
R&amp;R trends have improved and demand in this segment continues to get traction.
Harvard Joint Center for Housing projects home remodeling to improve about 6% this year which equates to about 3% for our products.
USG is well-positioned with major home improvement retailers with our national footprint and innovative products like SHEETROCK Brand Ultralight Panels to capitalize on the recovery in this segment.
Commercial construction is still challenged.
But there are many -- there are some signs that we're at the bottom.
Vacancy rates in major cities have stabilized.
Architectural billings have increased since the January 2009 trough and McGraw-Hill is forecasting commercial contracts signed this year will increase about 8%.
So clearly our biggest challenge is the U.S.
market demand.
Most international markets that we compete in are showing recovery.
And we continue to focus our actions with our industry recognized brand technology and our partnerships.
Overall there's a fair amount of uncertainty regarding the timing and pace of the recovery in our key markets but we can see that our operating strategies continue to show positive results.
Now I'd like to touch on each of our key businesses starting with U.S.
Gypsum.
Wallboard volume went down compared to last year but the market last year was influenced by the stimulus credit for first time homebuyers.
As we now know that boost was temporary and then industry demand subsequently declined as 2010 unfolded.
Our wallboard shipments actually increased in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year which is the first time since the beginning of 2007.
The average wallboard price in the quarter was up compared to last year's first quarter and we did announce a March price increase that's got traction in the market.
As we continue to emphasize innovation we recently introduced another product in our lightweight product wallboard portfolio.
USG was the first to introduce a lightweight half-inch panel and now we're the first offer a 5/8 panel.
This introduction is significant because it brings our lightweight and sustainable product line to the commercial market where labor rates are much higher.
Still the lightest and just as important the strongest in the industry we're now providing the commercial contractor with a solution for improved profitability in this challenging market.
USG invented the lightweight panel category and we remain committed to be the leader with additional products to meet our customers need.
So stay tuned.
You'll see what we have coming.
Now I'd like to turn to our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply.
The L&amp;W team has realigned the organizational structure to improve results and position the business for growth.
These initiatives go far beyond closing and consolidating branches.
We have right sized the branch network but in addition we've now taken layers out of the organization and have centralized decision making.
At L&amp;W we have the three Ps at work purchasing pricing and people.
These are all handled now on a centralized basis.
It is a fundamental realignment that focuses on operational excellence at our branches and a coordinated sales organization focused on key customers.
Our goal at L&amp;W is to leverage our nationwide strength but do it with a local commitment.
What I like to say is getting L&amp;W better will make us bigger.
Next I’d like to acknowledge our Ceilings and international business unit.
The results during the quarter and really over the last year have been absolutely outstanding.
Worldwide Ceilings sales increased 7% and operating profit increased over 40%.
Virtually all product categories showed both top and bottom line improvement.
We've been able to say ahead inflationary trends with price improvement we've improved efficiencies at plants and service levels for our customers.
But most importantly in our Ceilings business we remain committed to profitable growth.
Our focus on architects emerging segments and our commitment to our dedicated distribution base have been key success factors in our Ceilings business.
I'm also very pleased with the performance of our international businesses.
Our business units in Mexico and Europe have increased sales and profit versus last year and we have improved results in our joint venture in China.
Part of our strategy is to continue to build on our international footprint by bringing innovative products and solutions to key markets and customers.
As markets develop particularly in the commercial industry the need for productivity enhancing products increases and our customers look to USG for those solutions.
One great example is the tallest building in the world the Burj Dubai Tower.
It was built by using USG SHEETROCK Brand Panels.
In summary the first quarter was largely what we anticipated.
Weak U.S.
demand but with improvements in our operating results largely attributable to the actions we've taken throughout the company to improve our operations to reduce our costs drive towards profitability and take care of our customers.
As we look forward the pace of the recovery remains uncertain but we are confident that our efforts to realign and focus our business will continue to contribute positively to our operating performance.
Long-term the demand fundamentals for our products remain positive.
We remain optimistic about our opportunity to grow and thrive as the market continues to recover.
Now what I'd like to do is turn it over to Fareed Khan and he's going to review the numbers in more detail with you.
Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today.
I'm going to dig a little deeper into some of the key numbers behind the operating results that Jim just outlined.
I'll touch on the P&amp;L and also provide some additional details on debt liquidity overhead interest expense capital spending and taxes.
The overall message today and what you'll see in the numbers is that our top line remains challenged by weak U.S.
housing and construction fundamentals but we continue to make tangible progress on profitability through our operating initiatives.
We remain focused on cost reduction maintaining financial flexibility and cash preservation in both our operations and financing activities.
For the first quarter ended March 31 2011 USG's consolidated net sales were $721 million.
This is a $5 million or 1% increase versus the same period last year.
Net sales were up about 3.5% from the fourth quarter 2010 which is more due to seasonality than any structural improvement in demand.
Consolidated gross profit margin was 5% for the quarter.
Total gross profit of $36 million was up $22 million from the same period last year.
SG&amp;A expenses totaled $85 million or about 11.8% of sales for the quarter.
Restructuring charges of $9 million for the quarter were down from $12 million last year.
These continue to be related to our cost reduction initiatives.
Our first quarter operating loss was $58 million compared to a loss of $82 million in last year's first quarter.
This is a $24 million reduction in operating loss resulting from margin improvement in our core businesses.
Our net loss for the quarter was $105 million down from $110 million a year ago.
Let me very quickly cover the drivers linking our operating loss to our net loss.
Two factors are important here.
First our interest expense for the quarter increased from $45 million a year ago to $52 million.
This is a consequence of the additional liquidity that we added to our balance sheet via the $350 million bond offering we concluded in the fourth quarter of 2010.
As you may recall the high yield bond market conditions were very favorable and we took the opportunity to significantly increase our financial flexibility by layering in addition liquidity.
Second we recorded an income tax benefit that was about $14 million below last year's first quarter.
Our tax benefit in the first quarter of 2011 was $3 million in contrast for the same period last year our income tax benefit was $17 million.
With average diluted common shares outstanding of roughly $103 million our net loss translates into $1.01 per share loss for the quarter down from $1.10 a year ago.
Jim discussed our key businesses and our operating focused areas.
Let me now very briefly touch on segment results.
The softness in the U.S.
market continued to impact North American Gypsum and L&amp;W results.
For both businesses net sale declined 2% year-on-year.
North American Gypsum net sales were $416 million for the quarter and L&amp;W Supply was $243 million.
Despite lower net sales both businesses reduced operating losses.
North American Gypsum losses fell by $6 million to a loss of $29 million.
L&amp;W losses were reduced to $17 million and have narrowed to $22 million for the quarter.
Our U.S.
Wallboard business a key driver of North American Gypsum results shipped 990 million feet in the quarter which was down from 1.15 billion feet over the same period a year ago.
Industry shipments declined about 230 million feet from last year's first quarter levels.
This was not unexpected as we had the impact of the homebuyer tax credit temporarily boosting shipments last year.
Industry shipments were up about 2.5% versus the fourth quarter 2010.
Not a large number but it is the first time in a while that we've seen sequential improvement in wallboard industry shipments.
As Jim mentioned our average wallboard price was just over $109 per thousand square feet for the first quarter.
This is up about 2% versus the same period last year but down sequentially by about $2.80 versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
Obviously the March 7 price increase had limited impact on our overall financial results for the quarter given the timing of the increase late in the period.
L&amp;W volumes year-on-year for the quarter were down 20%.
The revenue impact of this volume decline was partially offset by a 9% average increase in wallboard price over the same period.
Gypsum's margins was up 33% for the quarter versus 2010.
Over the same period sales from construction metal products and fuel [ph] products were up 10% and 8% respectively which helped offset volume declines in other product categories.
The aggressive restructuring underway at L&amp;W continues to have an impact on the bottom line and contributed about $10 million to the operating profit improvement.
As of March 31 L&amp;W operated 163 branches nationwide.
First quarter net sales from our Worldwide Ceiling business increased from $165 million in 2010 to $177 million.
The primary driver was higher volumes and higher selling prices in the United States but all of our international Ceilings business had both top line and bottom line growth.
Overall operating profit increased from $18 million a year ago to $26 million and was up $14 million from the fourth quarter.
As Jim mentioned every key product category had margin improvement over the period.
Let me briefly touch on [indiscernible] I mentioned in some more detail.
SG&amp;A expenses totaled $85 million for the quarter restructuring and impairment charges were $9 million.
During the quarter we continued to drive cost reduction initiatives $4 million in restructuring related to severance cost for workforce reductions across all of our businesses.
The remaining $5 million in restructuring related to various costs associated with the closing idling of our manufacturing mining [ph] and distribution network.
Salary freezes reductions in employee and retirement benefits and health care savings associated with our adoption of the employer group labor plan helped to offset inflationary pressures in retirement and long-term compensation plans.
We also continue to make targeted investments in long-term growth and productivity initiatives.
These include SHEETROCK Ultralight Panels and other key product introductions upgrades to our technology infrastructure and an enterprise-wide back office optimization project.
Financial flexibility is a key element of our strategy for the downturn and we're watching cash very closely.
We closed the first quarter in 2011 with cash cash equivalents and marketable securities of $769 million compared to $585 million this time last year.
As I mentioned our bond offering in the fourth quarter of 2010 was important in ensuring we have ample liquidity to navigate a protracted downturn but it has also increased our interest expense.
On an annual basis we expect our interest expense to be roughly $209 million on the income statement and about $199 million on a cash basis.
This is up roughly $30 million from 2010 levels.
We continue to manage capital expenditures very closely.
Total CapEx in 2010 for the full year was under $40 million.
We're planning to spend approximately $50 million for 2011.
Our prior investments and the benefits of a modern optimized manufacturing network allow us to maintain low levels of CapEx without impacting operations.
Total debt now stands at $2.3 billion.
We've been careful to structure the balance sheet to push out maturities eliminate covenants and build in convertible or callable features.
We have $300 million of debt maturing in August 2014.
Additionally $750 million or about a third of our total debt is either callable or convertible.
Cash usages in the quarter include $44 million for interest expense $18 million related to restructuring activities and $13 million for capital expenditures.
The remaining cash drain was from operating activities.
Due to the seasonality of our business we build working capital during the first quarter.
This amounted to a $73 million use of cash over the period.
While working capital draws cash in the first quarter it typically contributes during the remaining three quarters with the largest contribution in the fourth quarter as inventories are drawn down for the winter months.
Total liquidity was $958 million at the end of the first quarter.
Let me now close with the following remarks.
Clearly we got no help from macroeconomic drivers.
Consolidated sales were essentially flat versus last year and volumes in our U.S.
Gypsum and distribution businesses were down.
Our margin initiatives both on the price side and the cost side drove solid bottom line profit improvement year-on-year in each of our key businesses.
We remain very committed to margin improvement and will continue to optimize our operations.
Our investing activities are very focused on strategic priorities.
Key differentiating products like Ultralight panels our technology and service infrastructure and on variable-lizing [ph] our cost structure.
With that let me turn it back over to Brian Moore.
Brian? Thank you Fareed.
We are now going to open up the call for questions.
We want to ensure that there's plenty of opportunity to ask questions so callers are asked to please limit themselves to one question and one follow- up.
Operator please open up the phone lines for participants to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Hi this is actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
For the Wallboard business I just wanted to know what your capacity utilization was for the quarter versus the industry’s? And also regarding the price hike for March 7.
Is that just a deferral of the February 7? Price increase yes.
We move from February to March on our price increase.
And capacity utilization is running about 45%.
For the company? Yes.
And what was the -- do you know what the industry was? No.
We don't have the industry numbers right now.
Probably close to that zip code.
And regarding Ceilings.
Can you talk a little bit about what drilled the strength? Excuse me.
I appreciate your question on Ceilings but we're trying to keep this to one question.
I'll answer the ceilings question and just for the rest of the callers we just want to make sure we have enough time.
So not to interrupt you but please continue on Ceiling.
Okay I just wanted to know what really drove the strength in Ceilings during the quarter in terms of margin performance and if you think that performance is sustainable going forward.
Well the margin performance on Ceilings has been -- there's been a consistent trend really the last 18 months and it's been a focus on staying ahead of inflation particularly on grid and now on some of the raw materials that we're seeing on ceiling tile getting price improvement in the market.
It's also focusing on having a very efficient distribution network.
And also we've looked at some of the emerging channels.
For example commercial repair and remodel we have focused on that over the last couple of years.
So it's really been two or three initiatives.
It's really -- we have focused on profitable growth versus -- really focused on market share.
And we think we're in a really good zone with our Ceilings business.
We're very as I said we're very excited about it and it's a very big bright spot.
One of the other areas on Ceilings is we have a business unit that is accountable and focused on this every day.
And our folks live and breathe ceilings -- that are in this unit.
So great job by our folks and we're going to continue to trend we hope.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois of Longbow Research.
Hi thank you.
Just have a question on volumes and your expectations for 2011.
If I remember correctly coming out of the fourth quarter you mentioned that you were expecting very low single-digit volume improvement in wallboard shipments in 2011.
I was just wondering after the first quarter if you're view has changed at all.
If there's any potential downside risk to it.
Well as we said the shape of this -- there is some uncertainty but we still believe there's some segments that are showing some glimmer and that's in the Repair and Remodel segment.
We think that R&amp;R growth is still at [indiscernible] percent.
We're comfortable with that.
Non-res [non-residential] is -- we have around an 8% number but you have to remember that's a lag number.
So a lot of that will be going into 2011 -- or excuse me 2012.
So last year the industry shipped just north of $17 billion.
And our feeling right now for the first quarter is we're going to see some slight improvements but the industry is still fairly soft.
Okay thank you very much.
The next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Hi good morning.
I just had some questions.
It looks like you guys did a very good job of taking a lot of cost out to drive margin in L&amp;W on a declining sales base.
And I was hoping if you could provide or share with us if -- now that you're at 163 depots is that number going lower? And do you think the size of the improvement is sustainable or should we expect more improvement as we move through the year? Well that's a great question and as I said in my prepared comments initially we were taking branches out.
And we're -- and the reason I use the term branches is we're very focused on our operations and we separated our organization focused on operations.
And then also focused on sales.
So our 163 branches we feel is a great number at this point.
There's a tremendous amount of leverage now at L&amp;W with some additional volume that we hope that the demand provides in the future.
But the cost taken out of L&amp;W I think a great comparison would be the operating results this quarter.
If you compare that to the second quarter of last year.
Operating loss was $22 million in the second quarter of last year.
$22 million this year and there was 90 million feet less volume that ran through the system and $40 million.
So you can see taking the cost out has tremendous leverage for L&amp;W.
We think we're optimized right now with the amount of locations.
We haven't left any strategic markets.
And as I said earlier this is all about making L&amp;W better which we think we'll grow the business.
It's focusing on our strategic sourcing it's focusing on strategic customers and it's really optimizing our centers.
So we will always look at ways where we can take cost out but taking a lot of branches out we don't think that's part of the plan at this point.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Rodny Nacier of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi.
Hello everyone.
On the wallboard side can you comment or expand on monthly pricing trends that you guys saw throughout the quarter? We only talk about quarterly numbers.
So as I said our March price increase was effective during the month so you will see that in the second quarter numbers.
So if you look at -- we finished the quarter north of $109.
And that was as Fareed said in his comments about $2 less than the fourth quarter.
But we don't report on monthly trends.
Okay thank you.
And could you break out the -- for wallboard the split of residential repair remodel new res and our new non-residential construction? You're getting a bonus question you know that.
Appreciate it.
Okay all right.
If you look at the footage if you look at repair and remodel and residential is about 85% of the wallboard demand.
So that's about -- repair and remodel is about 55%.
Non-res is less than 10%.
So the big driver on wallboard demand is repair and remodel and that's broken down half-and-half commercial and residential.
Okay and that was for 1Q right? Yes.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson of Thompson Research.
LLC.</strong> Hi thanks for taking my questions today.
The inventory was higher than expectations in light of a softer top line.
What's driving this increase and why the inventory build in the quarter? Kath it's Fareed.
That's a very typical seasonal pattern.
So we ended last year with fairly thin inventories across the network both in building systems and L&amp;W.
And so it's just a typical build as we came into the season.
So I'd say there's really nothing unusual about it from an operations standpoint.
LLC.</strong> So nothing really related for instance to Ultralight and trying to meet demand for big box with that? No and I mean that's a factor but it's not going to contribute overall.
As I mentioned there's about a $73 million use of cash for the quarter.
As we go through the year we'll see that inventory come down and contribute back from a cash standpoint.
LLC.</strong> And my second question is it appears that a decent portion of the March price increase has flowed through and it's a safe assumption that we should at least see some sequential improvement in pricing going into Q2.
Correct? Kathryn this is Jim.
We don't give any projections on price.
LLC.</strong> Are you hearing anything different in the market than what we are in terms of the price acceptance in March? The March price increase has gotten tractions.
Yes it's absolutely gotten traction.
LLC.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
First question and I guess it is the last.
What percent of your deliveries in the Gypsum is on spot versus contract? I guess what I'm ultimately trying on [ph] and I think what your investors would be interested in is if you guys really start to continue with your traction on pricing in March and potentially get some more price increases.
How much of that is actually going to drop to the average realized price that we see versus how much you guys have sort of already tied up in larger projects like potentially what you guys did in Dubai potential with Freedom Tower here in New York? Just interested in the spot versus contracts out of your business? Thanks.
Sure.
That's a great question and there's always job protected prices.
I think the bad news to that is there's not a lot of big large jobs like you just indicated where you need that type of job projection.
But we do track that.
We don't disclose that.
But it is a smaller percentage of our overall invoice price.
So we have centralized monitoring of job quotes we make sure that they are legitimate jobs.
For the footage we track them.
And we typically put escalators depending on the length of the job on those job quotes as we look at our pricing.
So it is a balance but it is a -- again we don't disclose that but there are job quotes and as we like to call it invoice pricing which is the larger percentage.
What do you mean by invoice pricing? I guess as a follow-up.
Every day pricing.
As your example job price for the Freedom Tower would have a certain price with escalators.
Everyday pricing would be something we're shipping to our dealers for their warehouse and for their everyday jobs and it's what the market price is at that point.
So is it fair to say that that overall contract that are job protected business is call it less than 20% of your business when you say it's just a small percentage? We don't disclose that.
But it is a smaller percentage than our everyday price.
We just can't disclose that.
Thank you.
Thanks guys.
Next question comes from Trey Grooms of Stephens.
Yes this is actually P.J.
Dickey in for Trey.
Jim just looking at the wallboard demand.
Looks like your volumes were down about a little over 13.5% year-over-year during the quarter and I believe the industry was somewhere around negative 7% for the same period.
So it seems there's a little bit of market share lost there.
Can you just kind of explain kind of what's going on there? Are you guys be more selective with customers or -- just some color there would be helpful? Thanks.
Sure thank you.
Really it's in three areas I would say.
First as we talked and free touched on some of the L&amp;W price improvement we've taken a very disciplined approach to get price improvement both from manufacturing and distribution.
So when L&amp;W raises prices -- I've said in previous calls that at L&amp;W we're willing to park trucks.
And this is about our road to profitability and really focused on partnering with the right customers in the market.
So when L&amp;W raises prices and we will pass on some jobs or pass on market share that equates back to the Gypsum business.
So that's the first thing.
The second area on that is shedding customers that have a high credit risk.
We're in a very tough market.
There's a lot of customers under pressure from a credit standpoint and we take a very disciplined a very conservative approach on our credit exposure.
So that's the second area.
And the third area is we look at unprofitable areas.
And we are going to take a very diligent approach that we aren't going to ship into areas that don't make sense from a profitability standpoint.
So it's really three areas it's very strategic.
As we've talked over the last really 18 months our strategy has been balancing price and volume.
And really focused on profitability.
So raising prices on L&amp;W shedding customers with a high credit risk and looking at unprofitable areas are really kind of the 3 drivers of what you can see on our volume.
Great thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill of Zelman &amp; Associates.
Good morning thank you.
I was hoping you guys could elaborate a little bit within the Ceilings on the top line.
Can you break apart what you're seeing on the volume side? From price both in terms of grid and tile? Just to help us understand kind of the trends there? If you look at the volume really in each product category.
If you look at tile broken out and our high-performance tiles our volumes are very very solid.
Double-digit increases.
And really each product line is up.
I mean there's not a one product line that really jumps out that's exponentially higher.
We're very pleased with the unit growth.
Now it's not huge but we have unit growth.
As you see we have top line revenue growth and margins.
So it's a very disciplined approach.
This is not a big market share grab.
Our strategy is profitable growth and we feel that our strategy focus on some of the segments out there for example commercial Repair and Remodel with some of the things we're doing in the field has really helped that.
So if you uncouple each area it's just not on price improvement.
We are getting some nice unit growth by each product category and none's really jumping out ahead of the other.
Just to be clear.
If we separate grid and tile grid and tile both would be I'd say low-single digits in volume for the quarter and the balance would be price? Are we disclosing our volume there? Our unit volume? I don't believe we are.
We haven't disclosed in the past.
But grid was particularly strong in the quarter.
Yes.
You're in the zip code but we aren't going to disclose that.
But I would just say from a standpoint we are seeing some slight volume increases along with price improvement and top line revenue.
Am I getting in trouble for this? But can you just talk about corporate expense? Both in the quarter? The increase that we saw? And then expectations for the year? Is this your second question or follow-up to your first because that's a bit … It's completely related to my first.
It's a second...
Okay all right.
So we'll have Fareed handle that one.
Okay.
Yes you did pick up on the increase in corporate cost.
There's a couple of drivers in there.
Let me start by saying that our actual people costs were down year-on-year through I think on reductions and other cost initiatives that we have.
We did invest in two areas.
One related to our technology infrastructure tied to an ERP upgrade.
A routine necessary for us to continue to optimize our network.
And the second is a corporate-wide initiative that we have around reengineering our back-office that cuts across all of our business units using an outsourcing model.
There's some other onetime charges in there around environmental.
And the last area was some long-term incentive charges are typically front-end loaded into the first quarter.
So it looks higher than it was in increase.
Predominantly onetime charges that offset for the quarter anyway the work we've been doing on just general cost reductions.
So the balance of the year should look more like what we have been running at prior to this quarter then? We will see higher corporate expenses in the first quarter and then they taper off if you look back at last year.
And I think we'll expect the same thing.
Okay thanks again guys.
Our next question comes from Ivan Marcuse of Northcoast Research.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
My first -- my question really is why were revenues -- if revenues were flat in distribution from fourth quarter to first quarter why did operating profit drop $10 million? And what sort of drove that and how should I think about that going forward? Sure that's -- if you look at the fourth quarter we had some onetime benefits in the fourth quarter with some settlements we got on some litigation as well as the Chinese wallboard.
So if you look at those there is about $10 million that where onetime benefits in the fourth quarter.
So that basically takes it to -- I think we were at a negative $12 million in the fourth.
So that puts it basically flat sequentially.
I think the better comparison as I said earlier was the first quarter of this year compared to last year's second quarter which both quarters were a negative $22 million and last year we had an additional $40 million of revenue flowing through there.
So kind of -- it shows what the cost reductions and the margin improvement has done for L&amp;W.
So L&amp;W is making progress.
We aren't where we want to be but I think the organization is very focused.
We've taken a lot of the decisions that typically have been in the field.
We centralized those and can control those particularly on pricing here corporately.
And we've taken a lot of costs out at the center locations in addition to the branches.
So our strategy with L&amp;W as we said last quarter was back to black.
That's important to get L&amp;W profitable and we hope to see some improvement as the year unfolds.
Great.
And then my second question is in the Ceilings business.
You're going through a more seasonally stronger second and third quarter.
Would you expect margins to continue their upward trend? Or do you have higher input cost of raw materials flowing through the P&amp;L? Be a little bit of an impact going second third? Thank you for taking my questions.
Well we don't give projections on future earnings but we're very focused on margin improvement in Ceilings.
It's profitable growth.
I would be very disappointed if we did not continue the trend that we're seeing in our Ceilings business.
And we're going to continue to stay ahead of inflation particularly on steel.
As everyone knows that's a very volatile commodity there.
We have a great strategic sourcing group that stays ahead of steel cost so we can stay ahead of that in the field.
And we're going to continue with our strategy that we've had the last three years is profitable growth.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett of CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc</strong> Good morning everyone.
Jim one question one follow-up.
What level of annualized shipments at U.S.
Gypsum at this point given your cost structure and assuming some price improvement from the March price increase would get that business back to breakeven in your view? Well Jim that's something we focus on every day and actually it's getting past breakeven.
It's getting profitable and as we've said before we don't give projections.
We have lowered our breakeven tremendously with our $600 million of cost coming out.
It's two areas we need demand and we need spread improvement.
And when those two things happen we're going to get to break even but unfortunately I can't give you a projection today.
Inc</strong> And then the related question.
You're finally getting traction with the March increase.
Do you sense that the industry is getting more disciplined in terms of pricing the product at this point? Well I don't want to comment on the industry.
I know we're very disciplined and one of the things that we have changed in the last year is we've been very disciplined on the manufacturing side.
But what the changes we've made at L&amp;W and the new pricing policies we put there we are extremely disciplined on the L&amp;W side.
And I think that's really important having USG and L&amp;W very disciplined in pricing.
And as you'll see as Fareed commented on L&amp;W L&amp;W has got price improvement in a very soft market with that type of discipline.
Inc</strong> Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Thanks very much.
In regard to the price increase and the traction that you got in March what would you say in terms of the volume there? Do you see any pre-buying taking place there? Any additional volumes that you saw either in call it early March during that time? That's always a good indication of are your customers believing the price is up.
And seeing some pre-buying is always a good sign.
Our customers are very focused on their working capital so they really really watch that.
So we did see some signs of that and that was more in a regional basis.
Okay.
And the second in terms of the lightweight product.
Is there any additional marketing expense going into that as we think about margins? Where would you saw margins are on that? And what's sort of market is going in that now? And sort of share of the business that you seen now versus where it should be? See this is a great second question.
Because I am so glad you’re asking about Ultralight because this is the absolute most exciting thing I know our company has done and the industry is extremely excited about this.
Just as a proof point on Ultralight if you went back a year ago there were less than 60 locations in the United States that carried Ultralight.
Now we have over 1 000 outlets.
1 000 outlets that are carrying Ultralight and most of these customers that are carrying Ultralight are getting a premium to their customers.
So you think about how soft this market is that our customers -- we're providing them some additional profit so they can grow their businesses.
So we've just introduced our 5/8 product the first in the industry.
This is a product that will be very successful in commercial construction because of higher labor rates.
For example commercial drywall hangers in the city of Chicago make up to around $75 an hour fully loading in the benefits.
So if you think about Ultralight that's lighter that's stronger that's good for the environment that it will provide better productivity for commercial contractors it will make them more profitable but be able to get more USG jobs.
So we're very excited about this.
We're going to continue to develop new products and as I said in my prepared comments stay tuned because we're working really hard from an R&amp;D standpoint to come up with some additional products for our customers.
In terms of the marketing expenses we do have a marketing campaign to support Ultralight but it's redeploying expenses it's not addition to.
This is our #1 focus in the Corporation from an R&amp;D manufacturing and marketing standpoint.
So we didn't have the luxury to add cost for Ultralight we just got to make some tough choices and this is our #1 priority.
So we redeployed our cost and we're going to continue to support it with marketing but more importantly is get it in the hands of our customers so they can grow their business.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Seth Yeager of Jeffries.
Hey guys.
One quick question.
From the $25 million or so in cash savings from the restructuring actions in the fourth quarter.
Did any of that flow through in the first quarter? And based on your modest volume improvement outlook.
How should we think about that through the balance of the year? Yes.
It flowed through the first quarter.
We saw about $3 million in SG&amp;A reductions.
Those were offset by onetime charges.
We've also reduced some of our long-term legacy cost going to a group labor plan.
We've reduced our matches on 401(k) and other areas.
So it does flow through there's just a lot of kind of puts and takes around the first quarter results as I mentioned earlier.
So we're definitely seeing the cost reductions flow through.
It's something we track very closely through each of the initiatives that we have.
And for the balance of the year is there any -- is that going to be lumpy or is it fair to just kind of run it in a 1 year fashion? You have to kind of make your own assumptions in the model.
I mean it should flow through throughout the year.
But there are different elements in there.
And we also -- we continue to look at every opportunity to reduce cost as move forward.
You've seen in prior years sometimes multiple initiatives flowing in throughout the year.
All right great.
Thanks a lot.
If you want to talk more about your model we could do it off-line a little bit more if you want.
Thanks appreciate it.
The next question comes from Phil Bobacelli from Deutsche Bank.
Hi there this is Sean Wandrack sitting in for Phil.
Do you guys have a free cash flow target? Or in other words a cash target for the end of 2011? Thank you.
We do.
I mentioned cash is a pretty important to us.
Our cash interest expense as I mentioned is about $199 million.
We've got -- we're targeting about $50 million in CapEx.
Leave the EBITDA assumptions up to you guys in your models.
But we look -- we manage those two very closely.
We're also looking at working capital very closely as well and I mentioned there's some seasonal impacts that you have to factor it in.
We do anticipate a cash burn this year that's in the plan and that's part of the reason we're very focused on liquidity.
So you can kind of work that out on your own assumptions around EBITDA but we would anticipate a cash burn.
How about in terms of cash taxes for the year? So we have some credits coming in the first quarter which offset our taxes.
I would suggest around $10 million to $15 million for the year.
We have a cash loss carryforward that applies to a lot of our federal taxes but we do have some state taxes in some profitable international subsidies.
So $10 million to $15 million if that's your range you'd be fine.
Okay thank you.
And do you think that working capital builds in Q1 will be able to cover most of the working capital for the year? That's typically been the pattern in prior year's.
Where it's a lift in the first quarter and then we work that down and in the fourth quarter it contributes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question is a follow-up question from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Hey thanks for taking a final question.
Just wanted to ask Jim.
What are you most excited about? In terms of your three segments? Which you think is the most margin upside? Given the changes you're making to the business model.
Well I think I'm excited about all of them quite frankly.
We've taken a lot of costs out.
There's a tremendous amount of leverage in the business.
In past calls we've talked about the leverage in the Manufacturing business.
And that incremental dollar coming through of what that does to margin but there is a tremendous amount of leverage in L&amp;W.
And I don't think we really highlighted that to our analyst and investment community.
We're going to continue to do that in discussions.
But I think with the reorganization of L&amp;W we're very focused operationally.
From a sales standpoint we decoupled that.
I'm really excited about going forward with L&amp;W.
With our plant network on the manufacturing side we're running our network.
We have some very -- our very low cost plants great facilities great people.
So there's tremendous amount of leverage there.
I touched on the Ceilings business.
We're going to continue to march on to the Ceilings business.
And then along with that we have some very interesting strategic opportunities outside of the United States.
We have a very robust international team.
We've put some great leaders leading our international business.
And we want to continue to diversify our portfolio as we go forward.
So actually I'm excited about all of these and there's great opportunities.
The one thing we need is a little bit of demand help here and what we need you to do is go out and buy a house or remodel your house and go in to your local outlet and go buy some Ultralight because we think you'd be really happy with that.
So you can help us get there.
LLC</strong> All right guys thanks a lot.
Our last question comes from Mark Weintraub of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
First a competitor had indicated that they seem to have gone about $8 to $10 from the March price increase.
Would that be a fairly accurate assessment of where you are? Or can there be quite significant differences from one competitor to the other? I don't comment on competitive pricing as I've said before we got some pricing in our March increase some traction.
We feel very comfortable and we're getting some price improvement and will be able to report that next quarter.
And you'll be able to see how we did.
Inc.</strong> And historically would you say there tends to be fairly similar movements from competitor to competitor? Or can it because of regional differences what have you can there be quite wide spreads? I feel more comfortable talking about what we do with our pricing.
So I can talk about our regional trends but not our competition.
Inc.</strong> And then in terms of freight cost.
Obviously we've seen diesel go up some.
How does that seep through in to your cost structure? What type of metric should we be thinking about to try and assess the impact? Well diesel -- actually anything fossil fuel is going to have some inflation particularly on plastic pails in our joint treatment business.
We've had some joint treatment price increases and the market's staying ahead of that.
Diesel fuel has an impact on our customers on our distribution.
So it's not a huge impact that we see on freight.
A lot of -- our freight on the wallboard side our customers pay for the freight it's after deducting freight.
So it's part of -- we see more the fossil fuel inflation in some of our other products latexes plastic pails and some of our raw materials that we're going to continue to stay ahead of.
One wonderful thing we have as a corporation we have a world-class strategic sourcing group that stays on top of any type of commodity changes be at diesel fuel waste paper natural gas.
And we think we do a pretty darn good job staying ahead of inflation and making sure it doesn't impact margins.
So not a huge impact on diesel on the wallboard side more on -- a little bit on pails we have price increases saying ahead of that.
And on our L&amp;W we're getting price improvements there.
So I don't think it's anything significant.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
This concludes our questions.
I will now turn it back over to Brian Moore for closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you for all your questions.
Jim I believe you have some concluding comments? Yes thank you.
And I really appreciate all the questions and I'm glad everyone listened to us about the one question.
I'm glad everyone followed through with that.
But I do all kidding aside appreciate your interest in our company and as we said we've been operating in a very weak market for several years but the foundation of this company that's almost 110 years old is very very strong.
And we're committed that the actions we've taken have strengthened this foundation.
We have the industry-leading brands.
We have the strongest and I believe the best customer network not only in the United States but outside of the United States.
And I think what you're seeing is we have an unrivaled market coverage.
We're very well-positioned for the recovery.
We serve all the segments.
And with our broad footprint that we have in manufacturing and distribution we're positioned regardless of where the rebound is particular geographies we are there to capture that rebound.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago our supply chain is extremely efficient it's very unique compared to our competition and what it does it provides tremendous tremendous flexibility in this evolving market.
In addition to our national footprint I'm very very proud and I think you're starting to see the results of our product innovation which has provided a much-needed solution for our customers.
Our customers have been asking us give us the solution to get through this tough market.
Our lightweight product platform gives our customers the answer for improving their business through increased productivity and performance and these are also with products that have a high sustainability area.
Outside the United States our business has excelled.
I'm very proud of the efforts with our International business and it really provides a window for our company for growth and as I said earlier for diversification.
Our reputation for quality innovation will continue to facilitate growth opportunities beyond North America.
And as I said earlier USG provides shelter.
We provide a basic need that everyone needs.
And we really believe the opportunities over the long-term will be significant both in the United States and international and we are positioned to profitably grow this fine company.
I really appreciate your interest and more importantly we all appreciate your support of USG.
And thank you so much.
That concludes our call.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Friday April 29th.
Information is available on our website www.usg.com.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.