Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay with the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statement -- information and the information under the caption Risk Factors each in Bard's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of core operating performance of the company and its individual franchises.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures -- pardon me reconciliations to the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 23 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Timothy R.
Ring (sic) [Timothy M.
Ring].
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Welcome to Bard's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'd like to thank all of you for taking the time to join us this afternoon.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 20 minutes and we're going to try and keep the total call to about an hour in length.
The discussion today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review the first quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the second quarter; John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will then provide an update on the product development pipeline.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2013 net sales totaled $740.3 million.
That's up 1% over Q1 last year on both and as reported and on a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 20 basis points.
Net income for the first quarter of 2013 was $90.7 million and diluted EPS were $1.08.
Excluding items that affect comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later first quarter 2013 net income and diluted earnings per share were $120.7 million and $1.44 down 13% and 11% respectively.
This was at the high end of our guidance range and as Chris takes you through the details of the P&amp;L a little later I think you'll see that we're executing well out of the gate on our investment plan that we announced to you at the end of January.
Taking a look at the revenue growth geographically compared to the first quarter last year first quarter net sales in the U.S.
were flat compared to 1 year ago.
In Europe we were down 1% on a constant currency basis.
I would say as the focus on and size of our European emerging markets become more meaningful starting with this quarter we will include the growth in these geographies with emerging markets in total and exclude these markets from the European subtotals.
In recent quarters the European emerging markets have typically represented about 1% of total European revenue growth.
Japan grew 2% this quarter.
As a reminder Japan is where we saw the biggest benefit 1 year ago from a competitors' quality issuance stent.
Our other international businesses grew 9% in constant currency with emerging markets on track for another good year representing 7% of our total sales through the first quarter of this year.
In the -- on the business development front we closed a small deal in our oncology business this quarter.
I would tell you our pipeline is active and robust.
As John Weiland will take you through the sales results you'll notice that our businesses performed squarely within the guidance ranges we provided for the full year with the exception of our vascular business which we said would have a tough start to the year because of the competitor stent recall 1 year ago.
We're pleased to report that we're off to a strong start executing on our investment plan.
As we said it would take some time to see the results on the revenue line but you can already see our increased investment in emerging markets and R&amp;D in the first 3 months of this year.
We put together an aggressive thorough and detailed plan and our decentralized structure is allowing us to move quickly on multiple fronts simultaneously.
Regarding the Gore litigation you probably saw that the District Court has scheduled oral arguments on the 3 pending motions for June 5.
We're pleased that the process is moving forward and closer to conclusion.
While this timing is within the scenarios we contemplated when we gave guidance 1 quarter ago it's on the back end of that time window.
The process would need to move efficiently in our favor after June 5 to still allow us to recognize 6 months of royalty revenue in 2013.
That's still possible and given the uncertainty of the process until we learn more we don't think it makes sense to update guidance at this time.
Just as a reminder we told you on the last call that if timing does slip it affects 2013 adjusted EPS by about $0.30 per quarter and we don't expect it to affect 2014.
We'll continue to be very transparent with you on this issue and should have a better sense of the impact on 2013 once the District Court rules on the motions.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
We'll begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $203.2 million down 3% from last year in both an as reported and a constant currency basis.
Our U.S.
business was down 6% for the quarter and international sales were flat.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter.
Our EP Lab system sales were up 30%.
As we told you before we can see peaks and valleys in this product line on a quarterly basis and this quarter was a strong on emerging market system sales.
Our disposable EP product lines were down 6% in Q1.
Sales in our surgical breadth category were down 10% this quarter.
We told you that we saw strong OEM orders in the fourth quarter and saw the opposite of that in Q1.
Our endovascular business declined 3% in the first quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products were down 4% that was -- we have not seen any change in market dynamics here.
This quarter we launched our new breast tissue marker the SenoMark Ultra.
This new marker has a flexible applicator designed for deployment with all vacuum-assisted biopsy systems.
Its design minimizes migration and its material composition supports permanent clear visualization under ultrasound MRI or x-ray imaging.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 9% in Q1 with our small vessel products and Lutonix outside of the United States sales driving the growth.
Our vena cava filter line grew 7% in the first quarter.
Our stent business declined 13% in Q1 compared to the prior year and was flat sequentially with the fourth quarter.
As we told you the first half of the year is up against some very tough comps as a competitor was off the market 1 year ago and pricing remains challenging with multiple players on label now.
Now let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $188.8 million up 2% versus Q1 of last year on both a constant currency and an as reported basis.
The United States business was flat while internationally we grew 5%.
This was the first full quarter after the anniversary of the Medivance acquisition and we're pleased to report that those products grew in the healthy double digits this quarter both in the United States and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% in Q1.
In the United States basic drainage was up 1% which is the first positive growth number in 7 quarters.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 1% globally and down 5% in the United States.
Our continence business was down 5% in Q1 consistent with recent experience.
Sales in neurological specialties were down 5% in Q1 mostly due to our brachytherapy business which was down 9%.
And finally standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 1% in Q1.
Next is oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $207.1 million an increase of 4% over Q1 last year on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 4% and international sales were up 3%.
Our port business grew 1% over the first quarter of last year while our PICC revenue was up 5%.
Our 3CG PICC sales conversions continue at a strong pace.
We're probably in about the fourth inning in the United States and we're just getting started in what we think is a significant long-term global opportunity.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was up 5% this quarter and our dialysis catheter product line was up 8%.
And we'll finish up now with surgical specialties.
Net sales in this category were $120.3 million up 5% on both a constant currency and as reported basis.
United States sales were up 5% and international sales were also up 5% for the quarter.
Our surgical sealant products acquired when we purchased Neomend Inc.
last quarter are off to a strong start and we're delighted with how the integration is progressing.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 3% this quarter as we saw a nice rebound in natural tissue products which grew 11%.
We also expanded the availability of our ECHO PS mesh positioning technology into other popular ventral hernia repair mesh sizes this quarter and we're on track to fill out our VENTRALIGHT ST line with ECHO PS in the back half of the year.
Our hernia fixation line decreased 11% this quarter and our performance irrigation product line was down 16%.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John.
Good afternoon everyone.
With our Analyst Day just a few weeks away I'll just give you a few highlights in our pipeline today.
As you know this quarter we began to execute our plan to significantly increase our R&amp;D investment.
And at the Analyst Day we'll lay out for you the magnitude of some of the opportunities we're pursuing.
I'll start today with the ENCOMPASS mesh atrial fibrillation ablation technology.
We completed enrollment in the feasibility study late last year and we just reached our 6-month follow-up point in this 40-patient study.
These data will support our CE mark filing planned for this quarter and they will form a basis for our IDE submission to FDA later in the year.
In our Lutonix drug-coated balloon program we're in the follow-up phase of the pivotal study LEVANT 2 study of 476 patients treated for SFA disease.
Our important 1-year follow-up point for all patients is coming up in July.
We're also over halfway through the enrollment of our 650-patient continued access registry.
In Q1 we started a broad global registry for SFA interventions and we just enrolled our first patient in a pre-approval SFA study [indiscernible].
We're also launching additional SFA sizes in Europe this quarter.
Now in addition to those programs our below-the-knee platform is slated to launch in Europe in the next few months and our pivotal below-the-knee IDE was recently approved for commencement of enrollment by FDA.
Our timeline anticipates starting patient treatments this quarter.
In stent grafts we reported last quarter that we'd reached our enrollment target in the clinical study of the FLUENCY PLUS family for the AV access instant restenosis indication.
Follow-up will continue for 6 months and we anticipate submission of the clinical module of this PMA in Q4 with launch upon approval likely in the back half of 2014.
Moving to filters.
We reported on the last call that we completed the major portion of our enrollment and the bulk of our follow-up in our next-generation Denali Vena Cava Filter clinical study.
We've now completed required follow-up and submitted our 510(k) with clinical data to support clearance with both permanent and retrievable indications.
Launch will depend upon FDA concurrence.
Moving to oncology.
In ports we've begun the full launch of our new PowerPort Clearview Slim family of low artifact MRI safe implants.
We've pioneered the development of the Clearview technology using materials that significantly reduce MR and CT imaging artifact and reduces the attenuation of therapeutic radiation.
We're also working on the creation of the 3CG port catheter tracking and confirmation technology with a plan to launch the 3CG port system around the end of the year.
Further in imaging we remain on track to launch the new Site-Rite Vision 2 Ultrasound platform in Q3 in both Europe and the U.S.
This product was previously called the Site-Rite 7 program.
Moving to surgery as John stated we're on track with our previously disclosed plan to expand our offering of the ECHO mesh placement system in the back half of the year.
Now before I turn you over to Chris I'd like to again extend to you an invitation to our annual analyst meeting where we'll discuss our investment opportunities in greater detail.
Please note an update to the location of the meeting which will be held at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City on June 3 beginning at 4:30 p.m.
For those that can't attend the meeting will be available by webcast.
Now let me turn you over to Chris.
Thanks John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We took a litigation charge of $25.8 million pretax which included our previously disclosed write-off of an insurance receivable.
We also had asset impairments of $5.7 million and acquisition-related items of $700 000 pretax.
The P&amp;L impact is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $445 million or 60.1% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis GP was $447.1 million or 60.4% of sales down 130 basis points from the prior year quarter.
This was right in line with our expectations as we had forecasted a step-down in GP in Q1 due to timing issues.
Our cost improvement programs are right on track and it's not uncommon for us to see increased cost ahead of recognizing the savings in the P&amp;L.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 20 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Pricing pressure was unfavorable by 110 basis points on the revenue line and about 40 basis points in GP this quarter both in line with our expectations.
In Q2 we're projecting a significant rebound in GPs back to the prior year level and we're in good shape on our annual projection which assumes the Gore timing as previously communicated.
SG&amp;A expenses were $216.4 million for the quarter or 29.2% of sales an increase of 150 basis points on both a reported and adjusted basis and right on track with what we told you to expect.
110 basis points of the increase is due to the new medical device excise tax and the balance is driven by the increased spending on our investment plan focused on emerging markets.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $59.3 million for the first quarter or 8% of sales up 150 basis points on an adjusted basis compared to 1 year ago.
As Tim said our teams are off to a strong start executing on the investment plan that we laid out for you in January.
Interest expense was $11.4 million for the first quarter up as expected from 1 year ago due to our bond offering completed in Q4.
Other income and expense was $30.3 million of expense for the first quarter as reported and $800 000 of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.9% on a reported basis and 24.5% on an adjusted basis right on track with our expectations.
Remember that we recognized the entire 2012 R&amp;D tax credit in Q1 of 2013 so starting next quarter you should see the tax rate move more in line with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 82.5 million as we purchased 1.5 million shares during Q1.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.44 at the top end of our guidance range for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of March 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $905.3 million versus $921.3 million at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 2.3 days and inventory days were down 0.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $13.2 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of March 31 no change from December 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the quarter was about 43% and total shareholder investment was $1.9 billion at March 31 2013.
In looking at Q2 we're expecting to see similar constant currency sales growth to what we saw in Q1.
Given the previously discussed first half headwinds we told you that our revenue growth expectations for the start of the year was flattish and we don't see any reason to change that.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the second quarter in the range of $1.35 to $1.39 as we continue to aggressively ramp our investment spending in both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D consistent with our strategic plan.
And with that let me turn it back to Tim.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Kim here for Mike.
A couple of questions on our end.
So I guess the first one maybe for Chris with regard to the second quarter guide the $1.35 to $1.39.
It sounds like you're looking for gross margin to kind of return to the year-ago level so around 61.5%.
Can you give us a little bit of color around how you were thinking about the operating spend in the second quarter? Yes that's correct Kim.
61.5% is a good estimate of Q2.
We are continuing -- as we talked about in January this is a very ambitious plan that will continue to ramp through the course of the year.
We're off to a very good start and we expect a continued significant ramp in both R&amp;D and in SG&amp;A in Q2.
Again as Tim said we're not updating full year guidance so it's really just a timing and the sequencing of those operating spending as we move through the year but again expect continued significant dollar ramp in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the R&amp;D side is it fair to say that that's going to be around some of the clinical trials that John touched on here? Yes Kim I'd say it's certainly a number of the clinical trials.
But I think as we laid out in the Q4 call we have ramped and added a number of new programs to our R&amp;D organization.
So we've got a number of new products and projects that are ongoing.
So that's also a big part of this.
As we said in January there are literally dozens of new projects in the R&amp;D portfolio now that are being invested in.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess one last one for Chris.
Could you tell us what the impact of -- the total impact of acquisitions was in the quarter? It was a little less than 1% Kim.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Keusch Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tim or Chris obviously I understand there was an anticipation that the date for the oral arguments would move from that original May 22 date obviously now June 5.
And I also get that this kind of pushes you out towards the latter part of your assumptions for the receipt of the money and the original guidance.
But can you walk us through exactly the sequence of events that occurs from the sixth to when you might have the receipt of the money just logistically what happens? Yes.
So the judge will hear oral arguments on all 3 motions Larry as we've discussed on the fifth.
She will then rule on those motions.
We don't know how quickly.
There's a range of time frames from that afternoon to shortly thereafter to a couple of weeks later.
But that -- we just can't predict that.
Obviously depending on how she rules that will then trigger responses from us and Gore including their likely appeal of motions that are in our favor.
That will then send those appeals up to the appellate court and then back down.
Again those timeframes are hard to predict exactly.
And again there's a range of scenarios from very quick to somewhat longer.
So as we said certainly still possible by the end of July we'd have final resolution less likely than if we had more time.
But it's just -- obviously the rulings on the motions is the next important step and then depending on what they are that will give us better visibility to steps 2 and 3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just lastly just on the outlook for price I think you said negative 110 basis points this quarter a little bit of improvement over the fourth quarter.
How should we think about that for the remainder of the year? Yes I think for the full year we think the level that we saw in '12 is still the right way to think about it.
So in that 130 to 140 range for the full year is still where our heads are at.
Next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Lennox Ketner in for Bob.
Just 2 questions.
First there's been some growing attention lately on the pelvic floor litigation and I'm wondering if you guys could just speak about kind of how you think about the potential liability there and if that impacts your spending plans at all going forward.
Yes we don't really comment on any ongoing litigation at all.
Any disclosures we'd make you'd see in public filings that we make.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But -- so there's no impact of that on the spending plans that you've laid out in the past? No we're executing against the plan we laid out in January and we see no reason that any litigation would change that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question I just want to make sure I understand what's driving the gross profit improvement from Q1 to Q2.
Is that just primarily the timing of some of your profitability improvement initiatives? Yes.
As we said the programs as they're completed and then as they roll into the P&amp;L creates variability from quarter-to-quarter.
So it's nothing other than the timing of our initiatives and how they roll into the P&amp;L.
Next question comes from the line of Dave Turkaly JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> On the -- over on the PICC side it seemed like a pretty good quarter.
I know you've mentioned in the past that's a big opportunity in the emerging markets.
Did you quantify what that was internationally the PICC performance? And can you maybe help us get a hand on the size of maybe what that emerging market opportunity is for PICCs? We really don't break out the PICC sales internationally versus the United States for competitive reasons but it was a very strong performance internationally.
And I think as we just talked about in January the -- part of our investment spending is actually to drive accelerated penetration of PICCs internationally.
And actually we think there's very large underpenetrated opportunities and not just emerging markets but even some of the developed Western markets where PICC adoption is in its very early stages.
So it's the single largest opportunity globally for the company.
And an awful lot of that -- of the size of that opportunity would never be reflected in global markets today because a lot of it is -- an awful lot of that is market development and training on our side.
So you wouldn't see that in a global market number.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan sitting in for Matt.
I just wanted a quick follow-up on margins.
I mean if we look at margins I guess for '13 and appreciating that it's an investment year and you guys have communicated the near term -- the expected step-down near term if you look out a couple of years can you just like discuss like what do you see as more like the normalized operating margin for the business? Yes I think what we had indicated in January was that as we work through the investments in '13 and '14 primarily we obviously begin to annualize the impact of price of the device tax that by '15 we would return to the levels that we had seen in '12 which really are sector-leading from an operating margin standpoint.
And then from '15 and beyond we continue to see opportunities to drive margins higher in particular through continued GP improvements.
So that's what we have stated as the objective over the next 3 years and then obviously we will continue to focus on moving them higher beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one quick one on Gore.
You've given your expectation for the receipt of fund.
You've laid out your investment strategy there.
So I'm just kind of wondering though how -- would there be any change if potentially the funds would be significantly earlier later than actually anticipated? Not to our investment strategy no.
Next question comes from the line of Jason Wittes Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess in looking through your results I was a little surprised to see the rebound in biologics for mesh.
Could you kind of explain what changed this quarter from say the last couple in terms of -- because it does definitely seems like an inflection point here.
We had a -- this is John Weiland.
We had a very strong quarter in our xenograft product for hernia repair.
And I think what we saw is the introduction of some clinical data John can talk to that in a second some clinical data on our XENMATRIX product line which is very compelling from an outcome standpoint.
I think that's the biggest driver we're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> And I assume that just helped with some of the pushback you've been getting with the payers and the hospitals.
When they saw the data they were sort of more willing to sort of step in and pay the premiums to biologics.
Is that what I should be...
No I think that the physicians in making a choice saw the outcome data and 1 quarter is not a trend but the -- based on the size of the growth that we saw that was significant we believe that is the driver.
Next question comes from the line of David Lewis Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Demchick in for David.
As expected we saw I guess a step-up in investment this quarter and I was just wondering if you could maybe break out some of the recent investment dollars into buckets for product development or into emerging markets and was also wondering if you could give some color commentary on how emerging markets have been growing with the added investments.
We're not going to do more than what we did in January which was bucket the portfolio of investments between 60% of the dollars going into R&amp;D and clinical-related efforts and about 40% going into sales and infrastructure builds primarily in emerging markets.
So that's how we're spending the dollars today.
That's how we'll spend the dollars over the next couple of years.
And as we said there's dozens of projects in each of those categories that we're executing against.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful.
And also had a quick follow-up on the Gore royalty.
You guys have previously said that you I guess expect the quarterly run rate in the $35 million range and reaching its highest point around 2014 and then declining after that were kind of the internal assumptions you had working.
I guess I have typically been thinking of the royalty as more binary meaning that if Gore works around the royalty it would drop more substantially and if it doesn't it would stay at more of the normalized levels.
I'm just wondering what assumptions you guys were thinking on the more gradual decline or if it was just kind of a fill-in assumption.
I'll try to answer that.
I think that the regulatory pathway for a material change is long especially outside the U.S.
So -- and even changing to an o U.S.
location could take a long time.
So our thinking was if there was a design around you couldn't change some big markets very quickly like Japan for example would take some time period to do that.
And of course there's some time associated with the regulatory reviews even in Europe and the U.S.
So our thinking was that if they had design-arounds or move manufacturing or did whatever they decided they wanted to do it would take some time for them to be able to affect that.
Next question comes from the line of Jonathan Palmer CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Tim I was wondering if I could ask you a strategic question here.
According to a recent proxy statement that was filed it appears there's some significant changes being made to how senior management is being compensated.
Historically EPS growth was the key performance target there.
Could you maybe discuss on a high level what metrics the new plan is focused on and then as a follow-up how that dovetails with a 3-year roadmap you recently released? Sure.
I think it correlates very nicely with what we're trying to do strategically which is what you want your comp plans to do.
We shifted much more to our revenue growth orientation.
It was a smaller component in the past.
And as you know as we've said historically we're big believers that it's revenue growth that will actually start to drive the stock price.
And we've said that now for well over 10 years.
So that was the tweak in the computation.
Next question comes from the line of Michael Mattson Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> Yes so just a question on your EPS guidance for the second quarter.
It's a little lower than what I've been modeling.
And you did say that gross margins were going to be up sequentially.
So I assume that means SG&amp;A and/or R&amp;D are going to be also up sequentially.
And I was just wondering if you could kind of explain what's going on there.
Are you stepping up investment even more into the second quarter? And then just a second question on the selling days in the quarter.
Did you have fewer selling days? And what was the impact to that if you did versus Q1 of 2012? Yes sure.
The -- again the investing is ramping as we move through the year.
So there absolute is sequential ramp in both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A related specifically to the investment plan projects that we laid out in January.
So that is indeed what's happening and that's why you see the EPS guidance that we've given despite the increase in gross margin in Q2.
And in terms of selling days we did as we have indicated in January have fewer days 1 day less in the U.S.
and about 2 days less in Europe.
It's hard to exactly quantify as you can imagine what the impact was.
But if you do it linearly it's about 1 point or a bit more.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Tim did you give the emerging market growth upfront? You said 7% of total.
Did you give the growth rate? I didn't give a specific number Matt no.
Research Division</strong> You used to.
Can you? It's a strong double-digit number Matt.
And for the full year we're on track to deliver a very strong emerging market growth rate pretty consistent with what we've seen historically.
I did mention that we were shifting the European emerging markets and just putting that in the emerging markets category going forward.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that would put you at 8% total I think if you -- based on what you said right? That's how it would map out in Q1? It rounds to 7% Matt.
Research Division</strong> Oh with the 1%? That's 1% of Europe growth.
Europe emerging markets has historically contributed about 1% of Europe's growth.
Not total growth.
Not total growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then for John Weiland a quick one on the stent graft market.
If you look at kind of 3 main pieces of the market which is the smart stent comeback or competitor stent coming back ASP pressure and then volume can you give us an idea of are volumes still growing at a decent clip? And how much of it is ASP pressure in that decline? Well we said in our overall stent business that we declined 13%.
ASP was part of that Matt.
But really the big issue quite frankly is the comps to prior year.
Q1 Q2 and to a lesser degree Q3 were very strong quarters as a competitor's product was off the market.
And as that came back late in the third quarter and into the fourth quarter the comparables become much tougher for us obviously.
So -- but overall I'd say that the biggest impact was the result of the competitor coming back on market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But big picture do you think that there is still 5% to 10% unit growth in that market? I would say that's a pretty good arena.
Next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Rob Wisniewski in for Kristen.
Utilization and austerity measures have been a theme that have crept up again this quarter.
I just want to get your thoughts on what the end markets look like and whether there are any difference from 4Q to 1Q.
Yes.
We for now several quarters have said we don't anticipate any drastic change and -- in the U.S.
anyway.
And again we kind of stick by that going forward.
There had been some talk and we read the same stuff you read of a flu bump or whatever.
It's hard to decipher all that out.
I think there's a category of -- category now when you try to look at public hospital data inpatient versus observation status now makes it a little murkier to track.
So it's a little difficult but it's not significant growth in the U.S.
that's for sure.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just on Lutonix over in Europe I think John you mentioned some new SFA products coming out and then the below-the-knee opportunity.
Can you just give us a sense for some of the opportunity -- just kind of quantify the opportunities in both segments? And then I know it's early days for that product but can you give us a sense for cannibalization of your existing products versus just more incremental revenue you're able to generate with that on the market? I can jump in on the cannibalization piece.
John DeFord here.
I think at this stage we're not really seeing much in the way cannibalization of our existing products.
And most of the impact would really come from stents.
So we're not seeing that at this stage.
We do think below-the-knee is going to be certainly interesting and getting that clinical study started is going to be important.
So I think we're pretty much on track.
I'll let John Weiland talk more to the growth and sales aspect of it.
The -- we're on track based on what our expectations and how we rolled out our budgets for the Lutonix PTA in Europe.
We think that market's about $80 million right now.
There's -- as we've said before there's no clear leader in there.
It's a pretty dispersed group of competitors on there.
We think the key to that market is the long-term data associated with LEVANT 2 trial.
We expect to have 1-year data near the end of the summer.
And hopefully we'll be talking about some of that in the fall or so and I think that will be a real impetus to clinicians to see the potential that that product has for patients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Would you mind just providing any kind of estimate as far as below the knee maybe next couple of years? Relative to...
Research Division</strong> Relative to the $80 million you're talking about today.
Well so below the knee in Europe there are products already on the market.
So it's not like we're blazing a trail here where there are no products on the market.
There are competitive entries.
So we do think that there's not a lot of clinical data for below-the-knee.
There's certainly nothing large randomized.
And so we think getting our pivotal study started is another crucial part to growing that market obviously in Europe and the U.S.
and rest of the world as well.
So right now the $80 million would encompass that.
Next question comes from the line of Rich Newitter with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> I think you had mentioned with respect to your 3CG product the PICC placement product that you're in the fourth inning.
Can you just say what exactly that means what you're referring to? I think prior calls you said that you were about -- you saw a 70% penetration with respect to kind of moving away from x-ray.
Just can you reconcile those 2 comments and give us an update on that penetration number? Well the first -- the 70% number that is the portion of those customers that have already converted to 3CG that have eliminated confirmatory x-rays within their hospitals.
The fourth inning I think that's just kind of a gauge that we're just trying to give you that there's still a lot of growth left available to us in the United States market in terms of the conversion rate opportunity and the fact is that we really only started this outside the United States just around now.
So there's a long runway for us x U.S.
and we still have quite a bit of runway in the United States in terms of potential conversions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just piggybacking off a prior question on kind of the sequential changes in end markets.
It sounds like no real changes in the U.S.
Just in the EU can you give us any characterization of kind of any kind of trend that you might be seeing even if it's directional things are basically stable slightly worse slightly improved? I think when you look at Europe in 1 quarter it's tough to tell a trend here but I think we're seeing a little softness in Germany and Italy and in France.
The other markets actually are doing okay.
Italy's got some macroeconomic issues no budgets and government issues there that have to kind of get straightened out which could bring some stability back to spending once they get a budget that's approved.
But it's kind of a nuance here and there but those are where we're seeing the softness right now.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Anthony Petrone Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple for Chris and then a follow-up for Tim and/or John DeFord.
Chris I'm not sure you gave the med tech tax inclusion SG&amp;A.
If you did I apologize.
And can you also walk through the step-down? And the tax rate in the Q is a little bit more than 100 to 120 basis points of improvement you guided toward last quarter.
So any color that will be helpful.
Yes sure Anthony.
I covered that in the prepared remarks.
So the 110 basis points of the increase in SG&amp;A was related to the device tax.
And in terms of the tax rate step-down because the R&amp;D tax credit was passed in the beginning of 2013 retroactively for 2012 we were unable to record it in 2012.
So the full R&amp;D tax credit which was just under $4 million was recognized in its entirety in Q1.
And so now that that is behind us we -- the guidance of 100 to 130 basis points of reduction in the tax rate was for the full year.
And so in Q2 you'll see the tax rate move back towards the 27% range which is more consistent with what we'll see for the rest of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one on the R&amp;D investments you laid out last quarter.
So going to the end of 2013 to 90 active clinical studies just trying to get a sense of the maturity profile of the -- of this extended portfolio.
We know Lutonix is more of a 2015 event.
I'm wondering how many of these studies will be completed before then and hence will be ROI-positive within the next say 1 to 3 years.
Sure.
So if you take a look at that roughly 90 studies that we said we'd have active this year we actually think we're a little bit north of that.
Those roll out those are in combination of pre-market post-market economic studies and so on and so some of the post-market studies will roll out.
I think we've got a relatively good mix.
Obviously the PMA-type products so the Lutonix products are probably in the '14 '15 and later timeframe.
But we do have a number of other products in there.
When you think about like our FLUENCY instant restenosis study we talked about that in the prepared remarks finishing up.
We're in the follow-up period there.
We do have a number of other studies in that mix and obviously we're looking to expand some indications in some of our existing platforms.
So those are probably in the '14 to '15 timeframe.
So I think if you put it all together as Chris and as Tim had said we don't see a big revenue impact of these new investments in '13.
They begin to happen in '14 and then become more mature in '15.
The other thing I would add relative to the trials in terms of the absolute number a significant number of those trials are to generate medical economic data not necessarily for regulatory approvals.
So you need to factor that in as well when you think about it.
Next question comes from the line of Josh Jennings Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess just first for Tim.
I know there's continued rumblings about repeal of the med device tax.
Any optimism there? Or is it just still rumblings? Well I'm the eternal optimist and slightly crazy to try to get that overturned.
I think it gets a little bit -- it really depends on what happens in my view with kind of overall tax law.
Well clearly you saw support from 79 senators I think was the total number to repeal that.
And I don't think -- I can't recall ever a vote where 79 senators agreed on anything.
So if you want to read -- but it didn't mean anything.
And the truth will come out when they have to vote on something that counts.
And I think that it will probably take place if it takes place at all in the form of some overall tax reform bill later in the year if that happens.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly a unit line item-specific question on electrophysiology.
It's one of the more attractive markets you guys are exposed to.
Any strategic initiatives you can take to approach -- get closer to market growth rates outside of the approval of ENCOMPASS in international markets as well as in the U.S.? And then just have a follow-up on ENCOMPASS.
Well I think we think ENCOMPASS is the big opportunity where an awful lot of the growth rate in that market segment is derived from.
So we're squarely focused on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then -- and can you give us any comfort just in terms of -- I know it's an RF energy multi-point ablation catheter and just in terms of what happened with Medtronic's Ablation Frontiers technology as being a non-irrigated catheter and the asymptomatic cerebral events.
Any you can share that could give us more confidence that that's not going to experience the same fate? We haven't talked about details of this publicly yet and we'd expect to talk more about this coming up at our Analyst Day.
But we did do a study looking at cerebral events and saw results that would be more consistent with irrigated tip catheter on a comparative basis.
So we don't think we're in the same kind of situation that Ablation Frontiers found themselves in.
So we've got a lot of comfort around that at this stage.
There are no additional questions.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing comments.
Thanks.
I'd like to take the opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a strong start and investigating -- or executing on our investment plan.
And we would look forward to joining all of you and updating you on our progress at the end of next quarter.
Thanks very much.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
I want to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.