Hello and welcome to the USG Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
My name is Daniel and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ken Banas.
Ken you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Live Webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumptions of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and our outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
I appreciate everyone calling in at this earlier time of this quarter.
Before I begin my comments on the quarter I first want to provide some thoughts on the announcement this morning that we have reached an agreement in principle to settle the U.S.
antitrust lawsuits regarding wallboard pricing.
It is very disappointing to settle a lawsuit when you have strongly believed that you've done nothing wrong.
However we have to be realistic about the cost of defending this lawsuit for several more years and the potential risk that it may create for USG.
Under the U.S.
antitrust system even a company that is confident that it did nothing wrong faces the risk of triple damages and joint and several liability potentially being liable for damages for hundreds of millions of dollars.
This risk makes settlement as distasteful as it is a responsible choice.
Given these circumstances we've decided that it's in the best interest of the company our employees and our customers as well as our shareholders to settle these lawsuits.
We expect this settlement to be paid within the next 12 months and we've taken the charge in the third quarter.
Despite this we expect this settlement will not divert us from our objective of delevering our balance sheet and working towards investment-grade metrics that we've talked to you about over our planning horizon.
We strongly believe that the best way to continue to build on the recovery is to settle this case and turn our attention to serving our customers and profitably growing our business.
We've always acted with the highest integrity with respect to our pricing and selling policies.
Let me be perfectly clear with you today.
We strongly believe we have done nothing wrong.
Our decisions on price and our pricing policies are made independently and in the best interests of our business and our customers.
Now I'd like to focus on our business.
And quite frankly I'd like to focus on the solid performance we had during the third quarter.
During the third quarter we delivered the strongest adjusted EBITDA since 2006 when quarterly shipments were about 1 billion square feet higher.
Each of our businesses improved adjusted operating profit from a year ago led by our Ceilings business which generated record operating profit; and our USG Boral joint venture which delivered its best quarter since the inception.
We are executing on each of our 3 pillars of our Plan to Win and I'm confident in our strategy.
Although we expect next year to be better than this year the pace of the recovery continues to lag our expectations and we expect the modest pace to continue.
As a result of this modest pace we are permanently closing approximately 650 million square feet of our wallboard capacity because we no longer believe this volume will be needed especially with our current network running at record efficiencies.
Matt will give you some further detail regarding this impairment.
But as you would expect we are constantly evaluating our network as we've talked to you in the past and we are always looking at ways to optimize our cost structure.
Now I'd like to discuss the quarterly performances of each one of our businesses.
In our Gypsum business we generated our 13th consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year results.
The primary driver of the performance continues to be wallboard margin which drove $15 million in incremental profitability.
Wallboard quarterly volume was modest.
But as we projected last quarter the industry did reach a 23 billion foot run rate at times during the quarter.
The other half of the U.S.
Gypsum business also contributed to our improved results.
Our surfaces and our substrate businesses which both have leading market shares and very strong brands generated both top and bottom line growth during the quarter.
Our performance was led by Joint Treatment which improved its margins by 6% primarily related to price and volume improvement but was offset with some higher inflation on raw materials.
Our Ceilings business as I mentioned earlier delivered the strongest quarterly results in the history of the company.
Our improved performance was driven by a combination of product mix and price.
Quarterly volumes were up slightly compared to 2013 which is still a reflection of the choppy recovery that we've been talking about in the commercial market.
However despite being levered to this persistently soft commercial market our Ceilings business continues to drive strong returns on invested capital through high-end performance products margin expansion and a focus on commercial repair and remodel.
And while we expect the choppiness in the commercial market to continue our Ceilings business is well positioned to benefit as this opportunity recovers.
In our Distribution business we generated our sixth consecutive quarter of positive operating results.
Since the downturn as we've talked about in the past we've made major changes in this business structurally lowering our cost refocusing on the commercial contractor and leveraging our scale.
While we are early in the commercial recovery the incremental margins and return on invested capital still remain below our expectations.
While velocity will be the most important driver of future profitability we will continue to leverage our combined capabilities of the business as we grow with the commercial market recovery.
In the third quarter USG Boral had a strong performance and I continue to be very pleased with the progress.
Results were driven by wallboard margins and volume as well as growth in adjacent products like ceiling tile and joint treatment.
The adjacent products focus which represents about 25% of the expected synergies that we've talked about in previous quarters is driving early results and we expect continued growth.
Now I'd like to shift for a few minutes to talk about our strategy.
The 3 pillars of our Plan to Win: strengthen the core diversify our earnings and differentiate through innovation continue to drive our performance.
Our commitment to strengthening the core can be seen in our Ceilings results.
Despite volume that remains well below historic averages and the soft commercial market that we've been talking about we continue to leverage strong operating results in our Ceilings segment.
Let me put in perspective.
We generated 22% operating margins during the third quarter compared to peak operating margins of 10% when we had almost 2x the commercial opportunity.
Although Ceilings is generating record operating results I feel that we will continue to grow the business over the long term.
We've made a major shift towards higher-end performing high-margin products and we've made key investments in this business to capitalize on this trend.
I believe the shift towards premium products coupled with our great customer relationships with customers that purchase both wallboard and ceilings will continue to enable us to improve on our already strong performance of our Ceilings business.
Diversifying our earnings through product adjacencies and geographic expansions is the second pillar and USG Boral is a key component.
During the quarter we completed the first phase of our technology rollout.
It was ahead of schedule and it was under budget.
This phase included the introduction of UltraLight technologies in major markets in Australia South Korea Thailand and Indonesia.
UltraLight represents a major step change compared to the products currently available in these markets and we've priced it as a premium product in each one of these markets.
These high humidity areas have never had a product that doesn't sag until the introduction of UltraLight.
Across the rest of the market we began implementing the USG manufacturing systems and have started introducing our classic technology in these other markets as well.
Not all the markets in the Far East will have UltraLight but our classic technology will serve as a significant upgrade to the current product offering in each one of these markets for our customers.
The third pillar of our strategy is differentiating through innovation.
One example I'd like to highlight for you this morning is our SECUROCK roof board products.
Our innovative roofing panels repurpose the existing technology that we have in Glass-Mat FIBEROCK and DUROCK products to create a new line of products that can be used in flat commercial roofing.
This has enabled us to enter a large market that was previously dominated by a single competitor.
And while we've seen double-digit growth since the introduction of our roofing business we believe that there's significant upside in this business both domestically and internationally.
In fact the commercial roofing business can be a $100 million business for us in the next few years.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Matt who's going to give you some greater detail on the financial results for the quarter.
Matt? Thanks Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll take you through our third quarter results and provide some additional details to each of our business segments.
During the third quarter net sales were $972 million up 5% from the third quarter of last year.
We recorded a GAAP net loss of $12 million compared to a GAAP net income of $23 million in the third quarter of 2013.
On an adjusted basis our net income was $66 million with earnings per diluted share of $0.44 which compares to adjusted net income of $24 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.22 last year.
This year's adjusted earnings excludes both a $30 million charge associated with the impairment of several of our idled plant assets which I'll discuss in a moment; and the $48 million charge associated with the lawsuit settlement that Jim discussed earlier.
Adjusted operating profit in the third quarter of the year including our share of the adjusted net income from our joint venture USG Boral Building Products was $112 million compared to adjusted operating profit of $76 million last year.
Our adjusted EBITDA including results from USG Boral was $165 million during the quarter our highest quarterly adjusted EBITDA in nearly 8 years and almost 40% higher than the third quarter of last year.
Before I move into my comments on segments I want to discuss a change that we are making to our disclosures going forward.
In an effort to generate value for all our stakeholders of USG we will be changing the way we disclose and discuss wallboard price and volume.
We will continue to have individual conversations with our customers on wallboard pricing decisions.
We will also continue our long-standing practice of not providing commentary on prospective wallboard pricing.
From a disclosure standpoint starting next quarter we will no longer provide specific data on our historical wallboard pricing and volumes but we will continue to provide qualitative commentary as well as the financial impact of the changes in wallboard price and volume in our quarterly earnings calls such as today as well as in our 10-K and 10-Qs as we do for all of our other product categories.
This change will bring our conversation on wallboard in line with all our other disclosures on all other USG products.
While this may provide some degree of frustration in the short term we believe this will generate value over the -- over time.
Now let's turn to our quarterly business performances.
In our Gypsum segment sales increased by 7% to $621 million for the quarter with adjusted operating profit of $90 million compared to $76 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Wallboard results were a primary driver of our year-on-year improvement with pricing contributing $15 million and volume adding an additional $2 million.
Wallboard costs were flat compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our team did a great job offsetting the inflationary pressures that we saw during the third quarter but I know that we won't be able to fully offset inflation every quarter and I expect to see more inflation in virtually every input cost as we enter 2015.
Third quarter results were also positively impacted by better operating profit contribution from our shipping business GTL which added an incremental $5 million primarily attributable to timing.
As I've previously said I expect GTL's annualized earnings of about $20 million to be flat year-over-year so I anticipate GTL's fourth quarter profitability to be lower than the fourth quarter of 2013.
As we turn to pricing I want to reiterate that after this quarter we will no longer provide specific disclosures on our wallboard price and volume.
However during the third quarter of this year our blended wallboard price was just under $165 per thousand square feet.
While wallboard price decreased slightly from the second quarter we have always said that there can be fluctuations due to exports customer and product mix freight and regionality.
Our U.S.
domestic price which excludes sales to foreign customers was effectively flat at $173 or 8% higher than a year ago.
In our U.S.
wallboard business during the third quarter we shipped 1.4 billion square feet an increase of 2% compared to the prior year.
Despite lower quarterly volumes compared to the industry our year-to-date share remains essentially flat.
Also while we reached a 23 billion square foot run rate at times during the quarter it is unclear how seasonality pre-buy and pace will impact the fourth quarter.
Nonetheless we believe that we have the right mix of channel and customers to deliver on our price and volume strategy.
Shifting to capacity.
Our wallboard effective capacity utilization was 82% during the quarter.
And at this time we still feel that we have the right staffing levels at our plants to meet current and near-term demand.
On a nameplate basis our capacity utilization rate was 58% during the quarter.
And as reflected in the $30 million asset impairment charge this quarter we impaired about 650 million square feet of previously idled wallboard capacity.
Since we began idling plants in 2007 we have continuously evaluated USG's capacity needs relative to our long-term demand assumptions.
Although industry and economic factors continue to improve and I believe that the overall economic recovery is very much intact volumes are improving at a slower pace than what was expected.
As a result we have reconsidered the future utilization of both our idled production lines and some preconstruction work on plant sites that began before the downturn.
Since we no longer believe that the additional volume from those previously idled facilities will be needed within our planning horizon we recorded this asset impairment charge.
As we sit today with our current active network of plants we have just over 4 billion square feet of total excess annual capacity.
In fact we have sufficient excess capacity run-up too and will be on the historical mid-cycle averages of about 1.5 million housing starts and 1.3 billion square feet of commercial starts without adding additional capacity.
And while we do not need to add physical capacity for the foreseeable future as our shareholders should expect we constantly analyze our network.
As we develop opportunities for organic growth we may look to address some geographical opportunities in our growing specialty product offering.
Although this could have an impact on capacity any additional refurbishment would be for very specific specialty products.
Turning to our Ceilings business.
As Jim said we generated record operating results during the third quarter.
Our adjusted operating profit of $30 million on the $137 million in sales this year compares to $23 million on $146 million in sales last year.
As shown on Slide 13 in our presentation our quarterly Ceilings revenues are shown as lower than last year due to the contribution of certain USG International ceiling assets into our USG Boral joint venture.
Sales connected to those assets are now included in the JV and not in our new Ceilings segment.
Excluding those sales from the prior year period this year's third quarter sales are actually $4 million higher than the comparable adjusted sales from the third quarter of 2013.
Our year-over-year operating profit improvement was driven by $4 million in both mix and pricing which was partially offset by $2 million in higher cost.
Volumes were flat year-over-year which is a further reflection of the ongoing choppiness in our commercial end markets.
Moving to Distribution.
L&amp;W's net sales in the third quarter were $359 million with same-store sales increasing 8%.
During the quarter we recorded operating profit of $4 million compared to $3 million in the third quarter of last year.
In our USG Boral joint venture we had a terrific quarter.
Total sales were $286 million and we generated $34 million in total adjusted operating profit.
Our 50% portion of the JV's adjusted net income was $12 million.
Through the third quarter our portion of the JV's results remain within the range of our annualized adjusted net income guidance of $35 million to $45 million.
As a reminder USG Boral will only have 10 months of results this year due to the closing and commencement of the joint venture at the end of February.
Moving to the broader category of SG&amp;A expenses for the company.
Our third quarter expenses were $76 million compared to $8 million in last year's third quarter.
And on a year-to-date basis we are flat to last year.
Like last year's fourth quarter I expect our SG&amp;A to be higher due to project timing but I also expect our SG&amp;A expenses to be below our original guidance of $330 million to $340 million for the year.
This year we have found ways to offset inflation while still investing in organic growth innovative research and strategic IT investments.
Managing our cost has been and will continue to be of critical importance.
Lastly shifting to liquidity.
As of September 30 we had total liquidity of $631 million.
This month we renegotiated our asset-based revolving credit facility for another 5 years.
The new $450 million facility combines our $40 million Canadian and $400 million U.S.
facilities into 1 single facility that will save us about $2 million per year because of our improved credit position and current market pricing.
During the quarter we made a $59 million bullet payment using cash from our balance sheet.
I believe that our total liquidity position is adequate for this point in the recovery and I am confident that our liquidity position will continue to build.
With regard to the $48 million legal settlement we expect to pay this out of normal funds from operations.
I want to reiterate that we remain committed to organically delevering the balance sheet as we continue to work towards our target lever ratio of 1.5x to 2x debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
I'd now like to turn this back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
I'd like to take a couple of minutes before we go into Q&amp;A to discuss our view of the market.
As we mentioned earlier we believe the long-term recovery in our end use market remains intact although at a modest pace.
We mentioned last quarter we still expect the second half of this year to be stronger than the first half and we still believe that.
We also firmly believe that 2015 will be better than 2014 for the overall business.
Overall though it will be a longer slower recovery but our strategy is built to position our business for success with an elongated recovery.
Looking at the individual segments.
Starting with residential we saw signs of improvement both with our shipments and the macros each month during the third quarter.
Although we believe the residential recovery will be modest over the next few years the long-term demographics still indicate that there's pent-up demand for housing and we are optimistic that we will see continued residential growth over the next several years.
The repair and remodel market continues to be a key driver of our business.
In the residential R&amp;R market the macros are mostly positive during the quarter and we saw seasonal strengthening in our customer mix.
In commercial repair and remodel which is especially important to L&amp;W and our Ceilings business there's mixed data and the recovery continues to be very uneven.
New commercial construction demand as we've talked many times still remains choppy.
The ABI was positive during the quarter but has been mixed throughout the year.
And the Dodge Momentum Index which is a 12-month leading indicator of construction spending for commercial has shown some signs of improvement but the pace has fluctuated throughout the year.
In the USG side of the commercial business the data has also been mixed.
We talked about the Ceilings business with volumes being flat or up slightly.
And our steel sales of L&amp;W were up slightly which is a leading indicator to the recovery.
L&amp;W's wallboard business grew by 8% which as you know L&amp;W is heavily weighted to the commercial business but we believe this is a catch-up of some commercial jobs that were delayed earlier this year because of the bad weather.
While we continue to see that there's contractor backlogs we see some strengthening.
The macro data in our business still indicate choppiness in the commercial market.
Although the recovery in each one of our end markets continues to improve the pace has moderated especially with new construction.
However I still believe we will approach historic mid-cycle in each of our end markets in our planning horizon.
And while I think we'll have a slower longer recovery the trend remains positive and we are optimistic about our 2015 performance.
So with that I'd like to open it up for questions and operator it is back to you.
[Operator Instructions] And our very first question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Capital.
You reported strong growth in the USG Interiors and the domestic business this quarter much better than we've seen from some of your peers.
Can you just help us understand the market growth rate you'd mentioned the flat to slightly up? I wasn't sure of the time period you were referring to just given the fact that you have very different comparisons in the fourth quarter compared to this quarter.
Yes.
We're really pleased with the Ceilings results.
And really the driver of that performance during the quarter was our focus on the higher-end high-performance products which have a higher margin.
Volumes are still flat up slightly and what we were talking about is third quarter versus third quarter of last year.
We did see some inflation in the business.
We have focused our Ceilings business really over the last 3 years on the commercial repair and remodel which has been a stronger market than new commercial.
So it's been kind of a combination of the high-performance products.
We invested in our Cloquet plants so we have additional capacity that we didn't have last year with our high-end products so that helped us during the quarter and a focus on the commercial repair and remodel.
Really the key is if you look at the overall commercial business we're still at some very historic lows.
So we're extremely pleased with the results of Ceilings.
But really this is a balance of volume and margin and this isn't a big top line growth at this point.
But we are optimistic about the future when the market returns.
And just for my follow-up can you clarify the capacity you're closing? Was that active or idled previously? That was idled capacity and we can follow up -- we're going to have some more disclosures on that.
And what we'd like to do we have a lot of people in queue here.
So I just want to reiterate we're trying to keep this to 1 question.
But yes that's idled capacity.
The next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question regarding the settlement of the litigation.
I was curious if you could talk about it.
Was there anything specific about that particular case where -- which would make it difficult for example for persons in another location to bring up sort of a similar suit against you? Were there certain aspects of that case that were quite unique to that particular situation? As I stated earlier this was a very difficult decision for us.
Again to reiterate we did not violate the law and we did nothing wrong.
We made the decision to settle really solely based this on the significant financial risk of the U.S.
antitrust litigation.
As we mentioned you have the risk of triple damages you have joint and several liability you have defense cost and not to mention the consumption of management time and the distraction.
And our business is going really really well and these factors made the settlement really a responsible choice for the company and our shareholders.
So there wasn't 1 specific reason to do this.
We put it all into the -- into our decision-making process.
But again it was a tough decision for us because quite frankly we did nothing wrong.
So at this point what we'd like to do is put this behind us and move forward.
We had an excellent quarter operationally and I'd like to get the focus really back on the business and looking forward.
Our following question comes from Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse.
This is Patrick Murray on for Mike.
I appreciate that you want to turn the focus back to the business in going forward.
But just kind of following up on Steve's does this settlement -- does this absolve you or indemnify you from future claims around this? And then tying into that if it impacts how you think about pricing -- any of your pricing strategies.
I know that you said that you're going to have a change in disclosure.
I'm not sure if that's directly related or not but any color on either of those would be great.
Yes.
Thank you.
That's a great question.
We're bringing our wallboard disclosures in line with the way we discuss all of our products.
If you -- using the example of joint treatment we talked about in the quarter of price volume and cost wallboard is less than 1/2 of the Gypsum segment's total sales and we feel it's appropriate to really provide consistent disclosures across all products.
One thing we have talked about we're far more than a wallboard company and we believe our past disclosures did put an emphasis on 1 part of our business.
So this had nothing to do with the lawsuit.
We feel that this is the best way to talk about the company as a whole.
And as we've said we're going to -- this would be the last quarter we'll be disclosing price and we'll be talking about the Gypsum segment as a margin which -- we'll talk about volume price and cost.
Our following question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fairly nice margins on the Ceilings business.
Do you guys -- you mentioned mix and price focus on higher-margin sales.
I mean do you see this as a sustainable kind of margin here going forward? Or is there any reason why this mix and price situation would change any time soon? Trey we've had that question a couple of times over the last few years and I think everyone has been waiting for the Ceilings business to lag behind.
We've been -- if you look at what we've been through over 5 years the Ceilings business has really been the shining star.
The return on invested capital has been wonderful and even through this terrible commercial market.
So we redirected the Ceilings business a few years ago to commercial repair and remodel.
We got our best distribution in the market.
We feel that we have distributors that sell both wallboard and ceilings.
And what's great about our ceilings distributors they typically buy all the other USG products.
We've invested as I mentioned earlier in higher-end products.
We were sold out of our -- some of our high-end products at Cloquet and we made 1 investment last year which gave us some additional volume.
So it is a myriad of things that has taken effect over the last few years.
We just haven't had the top line growth.
We feel with a little wind at our back this is going to continue to be a nice business for us.
From a return standpoint the incrementals are very good and I don't see any reason why we won't continue the trend of our Ceilings business.
It's a great business for us and we're very optimistic about the future.
Our following question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
I have a question on Distribution.
You mentioned that you're disappointed in the incremental margins and the ROIC at this point in the cycle in that business.
Just wondering if you can maybe outline some actions that you can take from this point forward to improve on those metrics.
Or is it really just a function of waiting for velocity to tick up and then the flow-through will then follow? Yes it's a great question.
The -- there's been a lot of heavy lifting over the last couple of years.
If you recall the key was getting L&amp;W profitable which we've now had 6 consecutive quarters but the returns just aren't where they should be.
Our focus is really structurally lowering cost.
We've taken out 100 locations plus we've refocused to the commercial contractor which -- you have to think the residential recovery started way before any type of commercial recovery.
So there has been some areas of the market that we just don't play in.
So really the key to L&amp;W the hard work has been done.
Now we need some velocity.
We need some top-line velocity.
And that commercial business if you kind of trend where you think commercial is headed you can -- L&amp;W kind of follows in line with that.
If you look historically L&amp;W tends to -- when the market retracts tends to retract later.
Our manufacturing business tends to have an impact sooner than our Distribution business and it tends to lag on a recovery particularly this recovery when commercial is the #3 segment of recovery.
So a short answer to a very long long answer is it's velocity trend it with the commercial recovery.
A lot of the hard work has been done.
Some of those initiatives still have to go across 150 locations.
But we're really focused on mid and peak earnings.
If you look historically L&amp;W's mid-cycle returns have been around 5% peak returns.
We're just under 10%.
And with the cost reductions that we've taken over the last 3 to 5 years we're expecting those mid and peak returns to be better than it was historically.
Our following question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I just had a question on wallboard capacity.
With these plants being permanently taken out of the network even with those that are idled it seems like you could probably almost double production from here but that's at the macro level.
And just wondering if -- as you look over the recovery in the next few years it would seem like you wouldn't have to bring any brick-and-mortar to market for quite a long time.
But maybe you could just elaborate if that's the right assumption or if there's geographic variances that might alter that.
Hey Dennis this is Matt Hilzinger.
I think you got it right.
And we've said for the last year 1.5 years that we really do have enough capacity.
In fact our total operating capacity right now is about 9.3 billion square feet.
We used to have about 2 billion square feet of idled capacity.
About 650 million of that got permanently closed.
So we've got a little bit of what I would say high-cost idled capacity still out there.
But again when we look out over the planning horizon we're very positive that things are going to continue to improve.
But there's still quite a bit of runway before we'd ever have to think about adding physical capacity.
And as I said in my remarks though I -- there may be some specialty products as Jim has talked about extensively all of our innovation and things to grow the business.
We've got some specialty products that are now out in the market and they're doing well and there may be a need at some point to do some additional manufacturing capacity around specialty products.
But when you're thinking about kind of wallboard and overall capacity we're set for the foreseeable future.
Our following question comes from Jim Barrett from CL King &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Matt this is related to the last question.
When we look forward over your planning cycle you did mention added capacity possibly in specialty products.
How should we think of capital expenditures relative to your current run rate for depreciation depletion and amortization? Yes.
Jim it's -- we manage our capital in kind of a total view.
We've clearly gotten some maintenance capital and we've got growth capital.
And we've said that's typically going to be somewhere between call it $130 million and $170 million.
This year we're at the lower end of that at the $130 million and we're still able to make a significant number of capital investments.
So I would think about this in terms of kind of that range and I think our annualized depreciation number is somewhere around $150 million.
But look we're going to continue to be prudent about how we spend our dollars.
Every dollar that we spend in capital has to provide a return and drive return on invested capital.
And so that's kind of the first thing.
And then the second is as we generate excess -- I'd say excess cash kind of free cash flow that's going to go to repaying down debt.
I mean we're absolutely committed to continuing to delever the company.
And so that's how I -- that's how we think about it Jim.
Our following question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Collin filling in for Bob.
So you commented that the recovery in the end markets have lagged your expectations.
I was wondering if you could give us some more color surrounding your commercial end markets.
Like do you see certain sectors stronger or weaker than others? Yes.
The -- when we talk about lagging our expectations what we're referring to was how we looked at the market at the beginning of the year.
We thought the year was going to be a little stronger than it was.
What we're seeing with the commercial business the individual segments you see the hotel segment continues to be one of the bright spots in the recovery also office construction.
It's very regional.
We'd like to refer to it as the golden horseshoe.
Commercial is very strong for example in -- geographically in San Francisco Los Angeles.
You go through Texas and it's very very spotty.
So it's still very -- each segment is still high-single digits down to flat.
So it's a very choppy market.
So there aren't really any shining stars underneath this.
We feel that it's still a choppy recovery.
If you look at the overall commercial business it's probably still down 40% from the mean.
So we have a ways to go and we're focused really a lot on commercial repair and remodel to -- for both our L&amp;W business and our Ceilings business because new commercial is still at some historically low levels.
Our following question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> As you pointed out the recovery has been a bit more muted than you would've expected.
Is there an opportunity to revisit your footprint more broadly and to throttle your SG&amp;A next year whether it's on the wallboard side or at L&amp;W? That's a great question.
We actually look at our footprint almost every month.
Every -- as we were talking about we just permanently idled about 640 to 650 million feet of capacity.
We look at running our network at very high rates.
Our efficiencies quite frankly right now we're running at historic highs.
So that is something that we run through our network optimization.
So we feel that the current footprint we have considering the idle capacity works for us.
We do have some areas that we have some voids in that we're keeping an eye on that we would like to be some places out West we have to ship into.
But throttling back our footprint is not something that we feel is appropriate because we -- 2015 and 2016 we think the opportunities are going to be better.
We aren't talking about big double-digit growth in wallboard demand.
But as we said in our prepared comments next year is going to be a stronger year than this year.
As Matt said we're running our effective capacity in the high -- mid-80s so we're running our plants really well.
Turning to L&amp;W we've taken the footprint down to what we think is the appropriate level 100-plus locations.
We did not exit any markets.
A couple of secondary markets we have to ship into but we feel that the current footprint is appropriate considering what we see in our planning period that we think there's going to be some modest growth in the business.
Our following question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to revisit 1 comment in the prepared text about market share in wallboard.
In the last couple of quarters you've been below the industry numbers that came out.
I believe you think you're still maintaining shares.
If you could give us any more detail on that that would be helpful.
Yes.
As we've talked really in the last few years our strategy is balancing price and share.
And we don't look as much quarter-to-quarter we look at the trend lines and these trend lines that we have on -- have been really consistent over the last couple of years.
As Matt said our share through this year is pretty constant.
And we feel -- if you look at quarter-by-quarter it's a difference of probably 25 million 30 million feet which is a couple of truckloads a day difference.
So we don't really get obsessed about is it -- are we trending behind the industry per a quarter or so.
So we look at the overall trend.
There's some regional differences too.
Some of the regions where we have a larger customer concentration the region wasn't as strong as some other regions.
So we feel comfortable where we are and our strategy of balancing price and volume will continue.
Our following question comes from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk USG Boral for a second.
It seems to be performing well.
I know it's still a little early.
But have you looked at the synergy targets? You finished the technology ahead of schedule under cost.
Is there any upside potential on the synergy there? And I know a competitor introduced a lightweight product in the market.
Any comment on that would be great.
Yes.
We're really pleased with where we are.
We're ahead of schedule on rolling out technology.
And put in perspective just to put our basic technology and it was 25 manufacturing plants with a lot of geography.
So I'd like to do a shout-out to our technology team that put a lot of miles on and went into the plants and just did a phenomenal job putting the USG systems in.
And then with some of the plants we put the UltraLight technology in as well.
If you talk about directionally where -- when we started the JV we thought from the synergies it would be about 40% would come from revenue growth about 1/3 would come from cost savings or so and then another 25% would come from adjacent products.
And actually we're very pleased with what we're doing with adjacent products.
The Boral organization has a very vast sales organization with critical mass and now they have ceiling tile and a lot of the products that they didn't have in their product offering.
The -- we did have a competitor in Australia introduce a so-called Mitoo [ph].
The product does not perform from a sag perspective.
And quite frankly it's kind of a knockoff of what we sell here in the United States.
And we feel that we have -- actually we have a better product.
It does not sag.
And really in that part of the world it's not as much about weight.
It's more about performance and sag.
And you think about Indonesia Thailand some of the high humidity areas they put plasterboard.
Most of the plasterboard is put on the ceiling.
A lot of the plasterboard is 16 foot in length and you can imagine putting that in a high humidity area where the windows are open because the -- that's the construction practices in a lot of areas there that it's almost impossible if it doesn't sag.
What's great about the NexGen product which we market NexGen in that part of the world out of UltraLight it doesn't sag.
So it's really about sag versus weight but we're getting both and it's -- we feel it's a great compliment when someone tries to copy what you're doing.
Our following question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> You've talked about looking at wallboard pricing.
You've talked about the idea Matt in particular that pricing for wallboard tends to move back and forth like a battlefront.
But along that front there's always little skirmishes going on.
I'm just wondering -- looking a little deeper into the competitive environment have you seen any shift in the number of the ferocity of the skirmishes that are going on? Or has the competitive environment really been sort of where you expected it to be? We're always in a competitive environment.
And our philosophy has been we support our customers' growth and the market is -- the market dynamics are always very competitive not only in wallboard but all the products.
And we believe in a very -- that's good for business and we haven't seen any more or less but we think that we sit down with our customers we have a value proposition and that's the reason they buy from our -- from USG.
It's the full line.
It isn't just wallboard.
They're buying Joint Treatment and DUROCK and we feel going to our customers with a full basket of products really provides a value proposition that makes them more successful.
Our following question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
LLC</strong> Questions on domestic ceiling tiles.
There's been a relatively new entrant over the past year small brand ROCKWOOL [ph] into the U.S.
market and feedback from the field is -- listen they're not big in terms of volumes but they do seem to be causing some noise in terms of pricing.
What if any impact are you seeing to ROCKWOOL's [ph] entry into the ceiling tiles market specifically to pricing in 2014? Yes Kathryn.
Yes we have a new entrant in the market.
In fact there are -- we have quite a few smaller competitors in the Ceilings market that we don't talk about.
We have metal ceiling competitors there's wood competitors.
This individual competitor comes in at the high end which I had mentioned in my prepared comments.
That's kind of the trend in the market.
Some of the issues that we see it's being shipped in from Europe which long term doesn't work.
We've heard rumors that there's going to be a manufacturing plant that will be built which is 18 months away.
I think the biggest issue that we see with that particular competitor is lack of distribution.
Ceilings business really is made with distribution.
It's a break ball [ph] product.
You typically don't ship a full truckload of ceiling -- 1 type of ceiling products.
There's all different types of mixes colors and performance products.
So distribution is really essential in the Ceilings business.
Our philosophy is having the best distributors in each market really is the key to you growing your Ceilings business.
So that's really the weakness we see.
It's really not a price issue.
We're -- it's operating at the high end.
And we have a lot of competitors that come in at that very specialty end and we're very optimistic about the future.
We don't -- we always take new competition very seriously but this isn't something that we are very concerned about.
We have our last question from Sean Wondrack from Deutsche Bank.
As you look forward being that this is the last quarter you'll be discussing pricing in 2015 it seems that your ability to take price has sort of slowed a little bit.
I think you're up about 10% year-over-year right now.
Broad stroke would you expect mid-single digit growth next year or flattish pricing next year as we look ahead? As we've talked over the years we never comment on prospective pricing in 2015.
This is -- we typically will sit down with our customers starting here in the next couple of weeks and sit down and talk to them about pricing.
As Matt said in his prepared comments we expect inflation in all product categories in 2015.
And our job as a management team is to offset inflation and improve margins.
So we don't give a view on 2015 pricing but let me assure you that we look at inflation across all product lines and it's our job to continue to grow the bottom line for the company.
Thank you for those questions.
And I just like to wrap up with a couple of comments.
During the third quarter as we mentioned each one of our business units improved its results and it's been a long time over the last 5 years that we've been able to say that as a company.
In our Ceilings business we generated a record operating profit.
L&amp;W as I said is trending behind but did generate its sixth consecutive quarter of positive operating results and the Gypsum segment had the strongest quarterly wallboard volume since 2008.
All of these were accomplished when there's been 2/3 of the historic average market opportunity.
So think of that Ceilings business record quarter L&amp;W positive results strongest wallboard volume during the quarter since '08 and this was done on 2/3 of the opportunity.
I think that's really critical to take note of.
We're very proud of the progress we've made and we've done it with integrity in which we operate every single day.
As the recovery slowly grinds forward we're going to stay focused.
As we've talked about managing our cost we're very very focused on deleveraging our balance sheet that's one of our top priorities and also seeking organic growth opportunities as we continue to grow and build USG.
As always we appreciate your time today particularly at the earlier hour and we really appreciate your interest in USG.
Thank you.
Good morning.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday November 6.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Well thank you to my speakers and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.