Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and 2014 Results Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ken Banas.
Mr.
Banas you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call and live webcast.
We'll be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
The statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and outlook are: Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of our businesses.
Matt will then review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open up the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
[Operator Instructions] Jim? Thank you Ken and good morning.
We appreciate your interest in USG this morning.
Today what I'd like to do is discuss the fourth quarter and the full year 2014 and then give you an outlook of how we see the upcoming year of 2015.
We continued to make progress on our plan in 2014.
Adjusted net income of $168 million increased by almost 2.5x from 1 year ago.
We recorded the strongest adjusted EBITDA since 2006 of over $550 million.
To put that in perspective that's when housing starts were 1.8 million.
We also finalized our joint venture with Boral and generated operating results that met or exceeded our expectations in that joint venture.
We made continued progress in deleveraging our balance sheet and I know that's something that's very important to our investors.
And we maintained a very high standards for our quality and safety.
In fact we had one of the best safety years in the history of our company.
These are some of the accomplishments that -- I like to say our Plan to Win is working.
During the fourth quarter despite the slow recovery we delivered strong results in our core businesses and we are well positioned for growth in 2015.
The recovery though is more elongated than we were anticipating yet I'm confident that 2015 is going to be stronger than 2014.
And we believe that the recovery will continue to improve all of our end-use markets through this year.
Now I'd like to take a couple minutes and touch on each one of our business segments.
First in our Gypsum business.
We had a good quarter generating $72 million in adjusted operating profit.
The primary drivers of our performance continued to be wallboard price and volume.
Despite less prebuying activity in the overall industry than we had last year the fourth quarter of 2014 was the strongest volume that we had since the third quarter of 2008.
We also had strong earnings growth in our surfaces business led by our industry-leading Joint Treatment.
During the quarter we did incur several charges totaling $75 million which was associated with our shipping business which is known as GTL.
We took these charges due to our key trading partners ceasing operations in December all as a result of the dramatic drop that we saw in iron ore prices.
We had been actively examining strategic alternatives for these noncore assets including the possibility of selling our ships.
Turning to our Ceilings business.
We generated another quarter of solid results with $18 million of adjusted operating profit.
Although we did not comp the record fourth quarter from last year where we had some demand pull forward I'm really pleased with the performance of this business.
We continue to see mix shift towards higher-performing higher-margin products coupled with price improvement.
And we expect these trends in the Ceilings business to continue in 2015.
The Ceilings business continues to perform well even though the improvement in commercial opportunity has not fully materialized.
After a very slow first quarter in 2014 the Ceilings business delivered record profits within the year.
And I feel there's more opportunity for growth when the commercial market starts to get some real traction.
Turning to our Distribution business.
Adjusted operating profit was $7 million for the quarter which was flat with the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the year we generated $100 million in incremental sales and doubled our annual adjusted operating profit relative to 2013.
But I'll tell you I still expect better performance in this segment.
Despite the softness in the commercial market this business must deliver better results for USG Corp.
During the fourth quarter we did reorganize the L&amp;W business to be more focused on the customer and to drive opportunities to improve profitability.
L&amp;W is a key part of the portfolio and is positioned for solid growth as the commercial market improves.
Now I'd like to turn to USG Boral.
USG Boral had another great quarter with business -- the business contributing $14 million in net earnings.
The launch of next-generation SHEETROCK or it's called in that part of the world NexGen we launched it in Australia Korea and Thailand and it is all on track.
The conversion rates are reaching more than 10% in some of these markets with just a few months after the launch and we are selling NexGen at a price premium.
We're also beginning to see sales growth in our adjacent products led by our USG Technology Joint Compounds.
I'm really proud of the early performance in these emerging markets and we will continue to grow as we roll out additional USG technologies and products.
Our employees focus on advancing our Plan to Win every day and it's our focus -- it's that focus that enables us to improve the results in 2014 and feel good about our position for 2015.
As I've mentioned in previous calls our Plan to Win consists of 3 pillars to build the USG of the future: strengthening the core diversifying our earnings and differentiating through innovation.
Our commitment to strengthening the core is evident in our Gypsum results.
The annual segment revenue was comparable to 2007 but we had more than double the operating profit on 1/2 the volume.
By improving our value proposition in the market and implementing effective cost controls we have substantially improved the operating leverage in the Gypsum business without sacrificing safety quality or service to our customers.
Diversifying our earnings is the second pillar of our Plan to Win and we took a major step forward with the formation of our joint venture with Boral.
USG Boral delivered results at the higher end of our projections.
And I'm confident we will continue to see growth in this business.
USG Boral is a leader in that region.
And that region is currently the second-largest plasterboard market in the world with demand growing in mid to high single digits in 2015.
We believe this investment will help enable us to dampen future cyclicality of USG by at least 10% to 15%.
By bringing together Boral's expansive footprint with our world-leading technologies we expect to drive approximately $50 million in synergies over the next 3 years.
While we have plenty of work to do I'm very pleased with the early progress and I expect the business to be paying cash dividends later this year.
Differentiating through innovation is our third pillar of our strategy.
Our innovation creates a competitive advantage and differentiates USG in the market.
We continue to focus on developing high-performance systems that drive energy efficiency sustainability and the speed of construction to benefit our customers and contribute to better-performing and healthier buildings.
One example of our recent innovation is our new DUROCK EcoCap self-leveling underlayment.
This flooring product is an eco-friendly self-drying cement-based product that is both quick-setting and environmentally sustainable because of a high recycle content.
We're proud of the product innovations that we delivered to the marketplace over the last few years.
And like EcoCap this enables our customers to be successful every day.
At this time I'd like to turn our call over to Matt who's going to provide some comments on the results and a financial outlook for the year.
Matt? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
Today I'll recap our fourth quarter and full year results as well as provide some detail into each of our businesses and lay out some of our expectations for 2015.
For the full year of 2014 our revenue was $3.7 billion an increase of over 4% compared to 2013.
We generated full year GAAP net income of $37 million compared to $47 million in 2013.
On an unadjusted basis we more than doubled our net income from $73 million to $168 million.
The improvement in our results was driven by 3 key dimensions in our business including ongoing pricing improvement across substantially all of our products stronger demand and effective cost management.
Looking at the fourth quarter total revenues were $954 million an increase of 4% compared to a year ago.
We generated a GAAP net loss of $53 million during the fourth quarter due primarily to 2 sets of charges: first $75 million of charges related to our noncore shipping business known as GTL; and second a $13 million charge related to permanently settling our United Kingdom pension plan remaining from our sale of Europe.
Excluding these 2 adjustments our adjusted net income was $35 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The 2 largest contributors to our improved year-over-year adjusted earnings were: wallboard which added $17 million of profit improvement; and our USG Boral joint venture which added $14 million in the quarter.
Let me take a moment to speak about GTL our noncore shipping business.
I think that a bit of historical context is important.
For those that followed us during the great -- during the depth of the Great Recession we had 2 ships that were no longer needed to transport Gypsum up and down North America's Eastern seaboard.
At the time we were incurring substantial operating costs to hold the ships and so we looked for opportunities to mitigate their holding costs.
Back then there were virtually no options other than repositioning the ships to West Africa to transport iron ore to help cover our costs and bide our time.
And in doing so we not only covered the operating cost of the ships but we also generated about $55 million in profit over the past 3 years.
Fast-forward to our fourth quarter of this year.
Falling iron ore prices caused our trading partner to cease operations in December.
As a result we have taken 2 charges amounting to $75 million.
One of the charges amounts to a noncash asset impairment charge of $60 million related to the value of the ships.
The second a cash-based charge of $15 million which relates to both a contract for a third ocean vessel leased buyer shipping business that is no longer being utilized and an uncollectible receivable owed to our shipping business by its key trading partner.
In addition due to our trading partner ceasing operations in the fourth quarter GTL's operating profit run rate was $9 million lower in the fourth quarter of 2014 than it was in the fourth quarter of 2013.
You may recall that GTL's profit in 2013 was weighted very heavily to the back end of the year.
As Jim mentioned earlier I want to reiterate that these ships are noncore assets and that we have been pursuing strategic alternatives including evaluating the possibility of selling the ships.
As we evaluate our alternatives our outlook for GTL in 2015 is just not certain.
As such we estimate that results from this noncore business in 2015 may range from nearly breakeven to a $15 million operating loss depending upon the duration and volumes under a short-term contract that we recently signed in December with a new trading partner.
Let me remind you that we earned $23 million from GTL in 2014 and $20 million in 2013.
My last comment on GTL.
Recall that our shipping business is recorded in our "Gypsum Other" operating segment along with our mining operations.
For 2015 we anticipate that the results in our mining operations will be flat year-over-year.
Now turning to our core businesses.
Regarding our Gypsum segment net sales for Gypsum increased by 6% to $625 million over the fourth quarter of last year and adjusted operating profit was $72 million compared to $82 million a year ago.
As a reminder we are no longer providing the average realized selling price of wallboard or square feet of wallboard shipments but rather we are giving you the operating profit impact of those variables consistent with our other product disclosures.
Please note that in the presentation we have added a revenue breakdown and color surrounding our gross margin volatility and comparative gross margin strength by Gypsum product line to supplement our disclosures in this area.
With that said wallboard price and volume contributed $13 million and $5 million of profit improvement in the fourth quarter respectively while cost was only slightly higher.
Our surfaces and substrates business also contributed $5 million of incremental profit improvement in the fourth quarter of 2014.
These positive improvements however were more than offset by lower profitability in GTL our noncore shipping business and unfavorable mark-to-market adjustments on our natural gas hedges plus some other costs primarily associated with gross and customer investments.
Regarding capacity utilization our nameplate capacity utilization was 56% for all of 2014 compared to 55% in 2013 and our effective capacity utilization during the fourth quarter was 87%.
As I've said over the last several quarters we have sufficient physical capacity to run up to and beyond the historical mean of demand in each of our end markets.
As demand continues to improve further into the year it is very likely that we will add back a ship or 2 in some of our higher-demand markets.
And as we have done in the past we will continue to match our investments in the business with the demand environment and what it will support.
In our Ceiling segment we had a solid fourth quarter generating $121 million in revenue and $18 million in operating profit compared to last year's $125 million in revenue and $21 million in operating profit after adjusting out the businesses that we contributed to USG Boral in the first quarter of 2014.
While we saw strength in the fourth quarter pricing with tile and grid adding $3 million of incremental operating profit volumes retreated as we saw less demand pull-forward in the recent fourth quarter and some currency headwinds in Canada and Mexico compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Turning to our distribution segment.
During the fourth quarter we earned $7 million of adjusted operating profit on $342 million in revenues with adjusted operating profit flat to a year ago.
From a product standpoint we saw sales improvement across virtually all of our products distributed by L&amp;W led by wallboard with improved profit of $2 million compared to a year ago.
Turning to USG Boral.
During the fourth quarter total sales were $272 million and the JV generated $38 million in total adjusted operating profit.
Our half of the JV's net income was $14 million for the quarter which includes an insurance recovery from facility damage costs incurred earlier in the year.
In 10 months of operations USG Boral generated $35 million in adjusted earnings for USG which was in the top end of our full year guidance we've previously noted.
I am very pleased with the progress we're making in this business.
As we look to USG Boral in 2015 we expect to improve our -- on our 2014 performance.
Over the past 7 years the compounded annual growth rate for volume in the JV's expansive territory has been about 7%.
And we believe that through further adoption of Western construction practices and the implementation of USG technologies that we can maintain a similar pace over the foreseeable future.
Additionally we expect to begin receiving cash distributions from this business later this year which we plan to hold in anticipation of making 2 potential EBITDA earn-out payments to Boral totaling $75 million over the next 2 to 4 years.
Now I'd like to shift to SG&amp;A spending.
For the full year of 2014 SG&amp;A was $339 million.
And in the fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses of $109 million were higher than the $91 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Let me highlight that included in this year's fourth quarter's SG&amp;A spending is $7 million of commission expenses moved for reporting purposes from sales to SG&amp;A and thus is neutral to the operating profit line.
Additionally in this year's fourth quarter we expensed $13 million to permanently get out of our United kingdom pension liability.
Adjusting for these items our SG&amp;A increased just $3 million for the year or less than 1% on increased sales of over $150 million on a year-over-year basis and our normalized SG&amp;A of $330 million for the year came in at the low end of our original guidance for 2014.
As we look to 2015 we expect SG&amp;A to be up slightly from 2014 and be in the range of $340 million to $350 million for all of USG primarily related to some additional investments around growth in customers plus some higher pension costs.
And please note that this range takes into account the annual sales commission expenses that I just mentioned.
We anticipate that our SG&amp;A-to-revenue ratio will continue to remain well below our 20-year average.
As I've said in the past we will make the necessary investments in our business to position USG for growth while managing our costs and working to offset inflation.
Turning to product input costs for 2015.
We anticipate inflation in the low single-digit range across all of our products and in most of our input costs including wages synthetic gypsum paper and freight.
And while we continually work to offset inflation through cost-reduction initiatives we will seek pricing improvement where possible to offset these cost increases.
With respect to natural gas we are approximately 75% hedged as we moved in -- as we move into 2015.
Our hedge position today is higher than our hedge position was heading into 2014 and our hedge rate will help dampen cost volatility in 2015.
With that said a quarter of our total gas costs will float with the market and it is possible that a warmer winter could result in lower natural gas prices in the first quarter.
We do expect our all-in annual natural gas cost to be flat with 2014's average of $4.15 per dekatherm.
As a reminder natural gas represents about 15% of our input costs to manufacture wallboard and every change of $1 per dekatherm represents about $2.25 change in our wallboard cost on an annual basis.
Turning to transportation for 2015 while we have all seen sharp declines in the price of oil in recent quarters we do not expect this to translate into significant freight savings for USG's manufacturing business in 2015.
Despite a lower oil cost the lack of long-haul drivers continues to put pressure on our transportation costs and we expect to see some modest inflation in freight in 2015.
With that said it is possible that lower oil prices could be a tailwind for L&amp;W Supply.
But keep in mind that fuel represents less than 10% of our total delivered cost.
Turning to taxes for 2015.
We expect our tax expense and cash taxes for all of USG Corporation to fall in the $6 million to $10 million range consistent with 2014.
These taxes are primarily attributable to foreign earnings and we expect them to be spread fairly evenly throughout the year.
Once again in the U.S.
we will not be a cash taxpayer in 2015 as we continue to utilize our $2 billion net operating loss carryforward.
At this time it is not our expectation that the valuation allowance will reverse in 2015.
As I have previously stated I will communicate more details regarding the impact of the valuation allowance reversal at least 2 to 3 quarters before when we expect that to occur.
Regarding capital expenditures for 2015.
We expect 2015 CapEx to be around $100 million compared to the $132 million we spent in 2014.
We think it's important to stay prudent in our spending.
It is also possible that if we see the recovery accelerate as we move through 2015 we may modestly increase our CapEx spend particularly around some new growth opportunities.
I want to reiterate that we expect all capital expenditures related to the USG Boral JV to be self-funded through the joint venture's cash flows and any distributions will be first used to fund the potential earn-out payments.
Shifting to liquidity.
As of December 31 2014 we had total liquidity of $673 million compared with total liquidity of $1.27 billion as of December 31 2013.
As a reminder our 2013 liquidity includes the $513 million of cash that we used to fund our joint venture with Boral in February of this year.
Based on where we are in the cycle I believe that we have an adequate cash position and improving demand environment and that we will continue to generate free cash throughout 2015.
Consistent with prior years we expect to use more cash in the first half of the year compared to the second half due to rebate payments and normal first quarter business requirements.
Lastly I want to talk about our debt and our commitment to organically delever the balance sheet.
In 2014 we took some important steps towards delevering our balance sheet and optimizing our capital structure.
In March we called the remaining $75 million of convertible notes saving approximately $8 million in interest per year.
In August we paid off a $59 million bullet loan with cash from the balance sheet reducing interest by an additional $6 million per year.
We also contributed $60 million to our pension plans.
And in October we renegotiated our asset-based revolving credit facility to a new 5-year deal generating about $2 million in savings per year.
As of year-end 2014 our total debt plus pension and other postretirement benefits was about $2.7 billion about the same as it was at the end of 2013.
And as I just discussed we reduced our total all-in debt by about $200 million during 2014 but this reduction was offset by increases in our pension liabilities driven by both the new mortality assumptions now required to be used in the actuarial calculations and the declining interest rate environment.
With that said though we did strengthen our debt-to-EBITDA ratio to less than 5x in 2014 compared to about 6x at the end of 2013 because of the improvement in our adjusted EBITDA.
As we have previously stated our target leverage ratio is 1.5x to 2x debt-to-EBITDA at the midcycle.
And to achieve this target we will strive for improvements in both the numerator and the denominator of this ratio.
As we look towards 2015 we do not have any major debt milestones that must be addressed.
However we remain committed to further delevering our balance sheet.
And we may look to lower our interest expense by opportunistically refinancing some of our higher-cost debt allowing us to put a layer of long-term low-cost capital in the business.
Please note that for all of 2015 it is our expectation that our total interest payment will be about $167 million compared to $175 million in 2014 without consideration of any potential refinancing.
Additionally in 2015 we expect to make cash contributions to our pension plans of around $65 million with pension expense of around $70 million.
On a PBO basis we are about 80% funded with a current unfunded pension liability of approximately $350 million compared to a liability of about $155 million at the end of 2013 with the increase driven by the new mortality assumptions and the declining interest rate environment that I mentioned earlier.
We expect that the gap in our pension liability will close as we make our annual contributions.
We are committed to paying down our debt organically.
We have a $500 million bullet loan that is due in 2016 that is clearly in our sights to pay off.
We have another $500 million due in 2018 that we also have in our sights to pay off.
Plus we have approximately $600 million of debt that is due in 2020 and 2021 that is callable beginning in 2016.
And this callable debt gives us the optionality of repaying our debt faster pending the continued strength of the recovery in our end markets.
As we begin 2015 I remain confident that we will generate sufficient cash to organically delever within our planning horizon and that we will achieve our target leverage ratio over that same time frame.
And at this time I'd like to turn it back to Jim.
Thank you Matt.
Before we begin our Q&amp;A session I'd like to share our thoughts about our end-use markets in 2014 and our outlook for this year in 2015.
2014 housing starts came in at the low end of our range closing the year right around 1 million starts but this does represent the fifth consecutive year of positive growth in residential but still remains well below the 50-year average of 1.5 million starts.
The outlook for 2015 is brighter with household formations dramatically improving in the recent months and the Blue Chip consensus is projecting housing starts of about 1.2 million for the full year.
Our projections for housing in 2015 are slightly more conservative and we feel it's going to fall in the range of 1 million to 1.2 million somewhere in that range.
In new commercial we saw low single-digit growth in 2014 with the improvement primarily coming in the second half of the year and it was very regional.
We see this positive commercial trend continuing into 2015 and picking up momentum as we get further into the year.
We strongly believe that the commercial opportunity will improve in 2015.
While we are expecting a strengthening commercial market in mid single-digit growth this year some uneven improvement by segment and geography is certainly possible in commercial.
The repair and remodel market which includes both residential and commercial repair and remodel continues to be a key component of our business.
Repair and remodel represents approximately 50% of our sales and we saw growth in 2014 in the low single-digit range.
We believe we have the right customer partnerships.
And the macroeconomics continue to support growth in repair and remodel with unemployment declining existing housing sales improving and consumer confidence rising.
Looking at 2015 we are expecting R&amp;R to grow in the low to mid single-digit range.
And finally looking at USG Boral.
As Matt said we've wrapped up the first 10 months of operations which saw strong results and positioned the business for a very bright future.
This year in 2015 with USG Boral we expect to see growth in our 12 multinational geographies in the mid to high single-digit range.
This is the part of the business that has the strongest growth opportunity for us in 2015.
So with that I'd like to open up the call for questions.
And as Ken mentioned at the beginning of the call we'd like to keep all the questions to 1 so everyone has a chance to ask questions that are in queue.
So I'll turn it over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes I wanted to ask about the Wallboard segment.
If you could talk a little bit more about first of all the trends that you're seeing there in commercial.
You sort of talked about some optimism but you also talked about some pull-forward in Ceilings.
So I wanted to ask you first about the commercial market.
If you could give a little bit more clarity about -- did you see some in drywall? Did you see a little less in Ceilings? And then also if you could be more specific about what the drywall volume was in 4Q '14.
Thank you Kim.
A couple of things.
The -- we were really pleased with wallboard volume in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned it was the strongest quarter we had I think since third quarter of 2008.
If you look at wallboard we shipped about 5.3 billion feet for the year.
When you look at commercial and we don't really break out the commercial opportunity by Wallboard or Ceilings I mean that they both go into a commercial building it was very regional.
We saw some growth in the back half of the year.
And where we're really seeing the growth of 3 areas in commercial are educational retail and office.
Those are the -- really the big drivers of our business.
The big difference in commercial between SHEETROCK and Ceilings is Ceilings' lag is about 18 months.
So when you see a commercial start the Ceilings -- you won't see ceilings shipping for 18 months where wallboard is probably 9 to 12 months.
So that's the big difference.
There's a longer lag on the Ceilings business on commercial.
So it's still a uneven market on commercial.
If you look at the overall United States it's very strong on the West Coast.
And you kind of go through the country where the Gulf Coast areas and up the East Coast has been very very strong but it's still coming from some very low areas.
So the wallboard volume was strong in the fourth quarter.
We had a great volume year comparatively.
And really the key to our business isn't really commercial.
Half of our business is repair and remodel.
So that's something we're really watching as well is the growth in repair and remodel along with commercial.
And our next question comes from Michael Dahl from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to make sure I understood the comments on the likely performance for the GTL business.
Were you saying that excluding further charges it's breakeven to a loss of $15 million? And if so isn't that a scenario where it's better to just kind of shut it down immediately rather than continue any further operations? Michael this is Matt Hilzinger.
Yes you've got it right.
So we've earned in 2014 about call it $20 million to $23 million that we just earned -- those earnings are going to be gone for 2015.
And the operating cost of the ships can be up to $15 million.
And so depending upon how we manage a short-term contract we may mitigate some of that $15 million.
So we're just saying it's somewhere between minus $15 million and breakeven for 2015.
And as we think about 2016 we want to neutralize this right? And as Jim has said as I reiterated these are noncore assets.
And these are things that I can't get into the specifics of things that we're looking at but clearly they're noncore.
And one of the things that we said that we were going to explore is selling the ships and we're headed down that path.
And we're going to look at some other alternatives as well.
But the idea is that this is noncore and we're going to focus on those things that really make long-term money for us.
So I hope that's helpful.
And our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig into your commercial comments a little more.
On the positive outlook for '15 is that a commentary on Wallboard Ceilings or both? That would be the commentary on commercial starts which they would include both Wallboard and Ceilings but there is a different lag.
So a commercial start today we would not be putting ceilings in for 18 months because that's one of the last things that -- you think about a commercial building a commercial office building for example Ceilings go in at the back part of the construction cycle because it's a finished product.
They put in the steel studs.
SHEETROCK comes next carpet furniture and typically ceilings are shipped last.
So when you look at the commercial opportunity it does include both.
But you have to lag gypsum and ceilings at different time frames.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How about the renovation? I think it's what people are really interested in.
What's your view on commercial renovation for '15? We're very -- R&amp;R we feel very very positive.
That's as I said commercial and residential R&amp;R are approximately 1/2 of our business.
And that's been -- quite frankly commercial repair and remodel has been pretty robust the last 24 months and that's been a big driver of our Ceilings business.
It hasn't been really new commercial.
It's been commercial repair and remodel.
That's a big segment for L&amp;W Supply.
And we think that's growing into the mid single-digit growth for 2015.
So that is more robust we feel than new commercial.
And our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your Gypsum segment even after your -- if I look at your North American Gypsum segment even if you strip out the GTL charges and what it could've earned last year it seems like there was no significant margin compression.
Can you talk about what's driving that? And will some of those costs linger in 2015 as well? Yes this is Matt Hilzinger.
Actually if you take a look at -- in the segments if you take a look at Gypsum United States you'll see that the actual operating profit numerically is down from the prior year.
But if you -- you've got to go back and take out a couple of adjustments that we had in the third quarter: one was the lawsuit and the other was the impairment.
And I think what you'll see is you'll actually see that that business continues to improve both volume-wise and price-wise.
And so I think you've got to peel apart some of the numbers a little bit more than -- and I understand this is kind of a complicated quarter.
There's a lot of ins and there's a lot of outs.
And the other thing I would consider is the $9 million change in operating profit for GTL.
So last year GTL in the fourth quarter made $12 million.
This quarter they made $4 million.
So if you pull that out I think you'll get to some numbers that I think actually show some strong volume and profit improvement.
And our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I was hoping you and Matt could just really talk about how you think about positioning both Ceilings and the Gypsum business in the current volume environment to get better profitability and kind of how you're thinking about incremental margins in 2015.
Bob what we're looking it's really -- we're going to run the same play particularly for Gypsum and Ceilings where we're going to continue to get a value proposition in the markets price improvement and where we have price improvement in every product category.
We're very focused on continuing our cost reductions.
We have a very robust Lean Six Sigma program both for Ceilings Gypsum and including L&amp;W.
We have some new products we want to introduce.
And we feel that also there's going to be -- we're starting to see some wind at our back on volume.
I mean if you look at volumes the last really 4 quarters we're starting to see a little bit of improvement in commercial as I said.
It's been a very -- we've used the term choppy.
We also say right now that we're feeling a little better about commercial which will help our Ceilings business.
We've been sold out Bob on our high-end Ceilings business for the last 1.5 years which is our high-margin business.
The market's trending towards the high-end Ceilings business.
And if you recall we made some capital investments at 2 of our ceilings plants at Cloquet and Greenville which will give us some additional capacity all focused on that high end.
So Ceilings business it's price improvement going to the higher-end Ceilings getting a little volume at our back.
The Gypsum business is continuing to provide value.
And with our new product introduction we're very pleased with our 5/8 UltraLight Firecode which is growing in the market at a price premium.
And we're growing with some of our large customers.
We think we've partnered up with the right customers in the business.
So there's not one answer to this.
We're -- we have about 4 or 5 different plays we're running.
But I feel really confident about 2015.
It's going to be a better year than '14 and we're starting to see a little bit of traction in some of these markets that have been pretty soft.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I guess I had a clarification and then a question.
So if I look at the U.S.
Gypsum business I think adjusted EBIT was $63 million this quarter.
And I think the year-ago was either $59 million or $60 million so that's a $3 million or $4 million EBIT increase on what looks like a $50 million revenue increase.
I'm just curious what exactly are the puts and takes just specifically with those numbers? And then on Canada just given FX how should we think of the Canadian businesses in 2015? Just kind of a global comparison on the Gypsum business if you look there's 2 major charges that we had as Matt said.
We had $48 million for the litigation and $38 million.
If you recall we impaired idled assets or closed -- impaired some assets to the tune of about 650 million feet of wallboard capacity in the third quarter.
So that's basically $78 million $80 million that came out of the Gypsum business.
So if you look at the Wallboard business we grew the business.
We got price improvement during the year.
Our Surfaces and Substrates business was good.
And we added incremental profit in the business.
So operationally I mean there's a lot of puts and takes in there and a lot of ins and outs.
But operationally this is -- the Gypsum business our core business is humming.
The efficiencies are at record levels.
We had as I said earlier we had best safety performance in the history of the company.
And this is a core business that I would not be concerned about.
We're very optimistic about it.
It's clicking along and we're starting to get some wind at our back.
Research Division</strong> And I guess my question was just a little bit more on the year-over-year impact but then -- and then also just Canada.
The Canadian business was affected a couple million dollars by foreign exchange.
The business in Canada has been relatively steady over the last couple years.
They took a step backwards a little bit last year but the Canadian business is a business that we're very optimistic on.
We actually just -- we received a vendor of the year from a large customer the Home Depot in Canada.
And the Canadian business is something that I would not be concerned about.
And our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back to the prior question because I think the answer that was provided was more focused on charges taken in the third quarter.
And if you look at the margins and the profit again just wanted to go back.
I know that there was in the Wallboard business for the quarter $7 million negative impact from natural gas hedges.
It seemed like that was perhaps an issue of profitability with the U.S.
Gypsum margins.
But just wanted to know if there was anything else that was negatively impacting that margin that might persist into '15? And similarly the year-over-year decline in U.S.
Ceilings margins also was a little surprising.
And wondered if you had any other comments around that particularly as it pertains to going into '15.
I'll handle Ceilings and then I'll let Matt give you a little more color on the Gypsum business.
The Ceilings business really if you recall Michael last year last fourth quarter 2013 was a record profit quarter for us.
And there was quite a bit of volume pulled into the fourth quarter of 2014 from -- 2013 excuse me from 2014.
So the fourth quarter of last year for Ceilings business 2013 was really inflated by inventory pull-through by some of our customers.
So you peel that out and there was a little bit of FX we talked about that did affect the Ceilings business.
Quarter-on-quarter was basically flat.
I mean it was like 20 21 to 20 basically flat so nothing inherent in the Ceilings business.
If you recall we started out the year 2014 very -- on a very tough first quarter.
We had weather but we had a lot of that volume that was pulled into December for the Ceilings business.
We had a record third quarter in Ceilings in 2014.
And if you pull out some of the things that I just mentioned for the fourth quarter of '14 there wasn't really a big pullback a little bit of volume that you saw on the waterfall chart that Matt showed you but that had a lot to do with a grid being pulled into the December shipment.
So Ceilings business to answer your question nothing inherent.
It's just the comparisons versus big quarters or inventory pull-through.
And on the Gypsum business Matt can kind of take you through some of the ins and outs of the quarterly comparison.
Yes Michael yes so let me -- in the deck in the roll forward I think there's 3 items that I'd just highlight.
One is and you had mentioned it was the hedging.
So that hurt us by about $7 million.
And look I mean we aren't exactly sure.
I don't think there's anybody in the world that really knows what is going to happen with natural gas.
As I said in my comments I would expect natural gas to be flat next year '15 as it was with '14.
And I think there's actually a little bit of an opportunity if the weather stays warm and inventories stay high that we could beat that number and have that flow-through.
But clearly natural gas hedging is an item that I wouldn't expect to repeat next year.
But again it's largely dependent upon the -- on the markets.
And you'll see the Canada and Mexico line in there a minus 4.
There's actually a couple of million dollars of FX foreign exchange loss that's embedded in that.
Again my view is that's more onetime.
But we've seen currencies get devalued across the world.
And Canada being a big raw materials provider I think there still could be some pressure on FX as it relates to Canada in particular.
But again it's hard to predict exactly what's going to happen on FX.
And just to give you an example one of the things that we've done here on our foreign exchange is if you take a look at foreign exchange across the whole company whether it's in the Boral territories or Mexico or Canada or some of our remaining joint ventures in Europe a 10% valuation change in the U.S.
dollar compared to all the other currencies represents about a $10 million swing on our P&amp;L.
So it's not huge for us.
But clearly you're seeing it come up and be reflected in the Gypsum margins.
And then the last item I'd point out is you'll see IP investments in other costs.
There are some myriad of costs that we incurred this year in the third and particularly in the fourth quarter that I just don't expect that will reoccur.
So it was timing of buying some things and goods and services and so that may be $4 million or $5 million that we wouldn't expect to see reoccur.
So if you add that up you're probably around $10 million to $12 million $13 million of items in there that I don't think we'll expect to see next year.
But as -- there could be other items.
But I think that's pretty helpful.
I hope that's pretty helpful for you.
And our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Jim you gave some color on how you see some of your end markets shaking out this year and I appreciate that.
But just as a point of clarity given your kind of end-market mix for wallboard how does that translate into wallboard volume specifically for you guys this year given that mix? And kind of back of the envelope Matt tells me kind of mid to high single digits.
But just a point of clarity on that to make sure I'm on the right track.
Yes Trey we're -- 50% of our business is repair and remodel.
And that's -- we're saying that's mid single digits.
25% of our business is new res so you kind of put your number on that.
We think -- you're directionally correct.
We don't give a projection on where the market's going to be but we do feel 2015 is going to be stronger than '14.
And I think with our larger footprint in repair and remodel that gives us kind of a -- L&amp;W's heavily weighted on commercial 2/3 of their business on commercial.
So if you look at the L&amp;W results you can kind of mirror where you think commercial is going to be.
And on the Gypsum results more heavily weighted on the repair and remodel.
So kind of put your models where you think R&amp;R and Commercial is going to be and L&amp;W's 2/3 and the Gypsum business is more heavily weighted to residential and -- or excuse me repair and remodel.
Research Division</strong> Just again on that clarity there on the repair remodel for wallboard on the Gypsum business is that repair remodel pretty evenly split between res and nonres? Yes it is.
51/49 yes it bounces between that year-to-year but yes that's pretty correct.
You're right on.
And our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
I just wanted to go back.
I think you had said that you were anticipating price improvement in every category.
And I think that was for everything or was that specific to the Ceilings business? And just as a kind of a follow-on or related to that assuming it was for everything can you give us an update on how the Gypsum pricing initiative is feeling at this stage versus where it would've been feeling at this stage last year? Yes.
We expect to get price improvement 2015 in all of our product categories.
As Matt says we have some inflation that is starting to creep into the system and the key is we want to more than offset inflation in each one of our product categories.
So either we have announcements or plan to have announcements with each one of our product categories both ceilings wallboard surfaces and substrates.
And it really gets down to the value proposition of how our customers view us as well.
So we want to make sure that we service our customers and continue to give them product innovations.
So there is value with what they pay us for our products.
If you look at -- you specifically ask about wallboard.
That is included in price improvement.
We have a price increase that has been put into the market effective January 1.
And the price for wallboard will go from January 1 to the end of October of this year.
We have time for 1 more question.
And our last question will come from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> The first question -- it's kind of 2 parts but one of the -- the first one is quick.
Matt what are the ships on the books at now following the impairment? And then the second part would be as you think about CapEx I think you said it was going to be $100 million which is down pretty materially from the last couple of years yet you have a good outlook on the markets new products kind of excited about the business and it was depressed through the downturn so a little surprising to see that pull back.
But just wondering if you can maybe walk through where you're cutting and how you think about CapEx at these levels? Dennis I think it's a 2-part question but since we're at the end of it we'll give you that one.
Let me talk about the CapEx and then I'll turn it over to Matt to wrap up.
If you look at CapEx early in the recession we took it down to $50 million.
And if you look at the last few years we were up $130 million $140 million $150 million.
I like to look at the average.
We feel that CapEx needs to be close to depreciation which is around the $140 million range.
So we may bounce year-on-year up and down there but if you look at CapEx it's going to be averaging through this -- going forward $140 million.
The key really is and this is really important to our investors we really have our sights set on the balance sheet.
And as Matt said earlier that $500 million at the end of 2016 we're very focused on paying that organically.
We're very optimistic about what's happening as the market -- in the market as we said.
But we're still very -- we're cautiously optimistic.
So we can dial CapEx up when we need to.
We have some great growth projects that we invested in the last couple years.
I mentioned earlier that we invested in our Ceilings business $50 million $60 million there for -- on that high-end Ceilings.
We're going to do some investments on our specialty wallboard lines to increase our product portfolio there.
So we are not short-sheeting any growth initiatives.
But on the other side of that is we're really focused on the balance sheet of having the best opportunity to organically pay that $500 million off in 2016.
Yes Dennis this is Matt.
On the net book value I'd prefer not to give you a specific number as we're in the -- right in the middle of looking at strategic options.
And if we sell the ships we want to get the best price we can.
And we just don't want to give any kind of indication as to what we think what we wrote those ships at.
I will say this we've got about a $20 million mortgage on those ships.
Our intent if we were to sell them would be to pay that mortgage off.
And to the extent there is a balance of cash left we would put that in the pool of funds to continue our delevering activities.
But I want to temper expectations about the value of the ships that we would pay the mortgage off and we'd probably have some left over to do some other things with in terms of delevering.
But I think we're in good shape.
I think we're headed in the right direction there.
Thank you.
I really appreciate everyone's questions and interest in USG.
And as -- hopefully you agree that 2014 was a very exciting year for us and I'm proud of the progress that we've made.
But obviously our work is certainly not done.
As we look into 2015 I'm confident we're going to see continued growth in each one of our markets.
And as the opportunity continues to improve we remain focused as I just mentioned on -- deleveraging our balance sheet is critical managing our cost.
And also along with that is seeking organic growth opportunities as we grow USG.
So thank you for your interest and we'll talk to you in 3 months.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Wednesday February 18.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participating.
You may now disconnect.