Welcome to the USG First Quarter Results Conference Call.
My name is Cynthia and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under Securities Laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss our results and outlook are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into some of the businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We will then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to just one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
I appreciate everyone joining us this morning.
What we're going to do is spend the next hour talking about the first quarter results and our outlook for 2015.
But before we do that I'd like to touch on a few key points.
As most of you know USG is a leading building products manufacturer and distributor in North America with a new growth engine in our joint venture with Boral in Asia and Australasia.
Our strategy rests on three pillars to build the USG of the future: strengthen the core diversify our earnings and differentiate through innovation.
We're strengthening the core by improving the performance of our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses that will provide free cash flow to de-lever our balance sheet.
We're diversifying our earnings by expanding our global footprint through our USG Boral business.
And we're continuing to differentiate through innovation by introducing products that help our customers succeed.
We have the number one or two share in our core products and markets.
And our value proposition does command a price premium in almost all of our products.
And that's due to our innovation our commitment to quality and our strong customer service.
We're currently in the early to middle innings of what we think will be a longer growth cycle than in the past.
With 25% of our business levered to the commercial recovery that hasn't fully hit its stride we're really excited about the growth we see in our future.
We're going to continue to focus on margin expansion and use that growing cash flow to de-lever our balance sheet and invest to expand our business.
Now turning to the first quarter we took some very important steps to move our plan to win forward.
I'd like to touch on a couple of highlights.
First we made $43 million in adjusted net income.
We had operating profit expansion in every segment.
We reduced our SG&amp;A spending.
We have a deal in place to sell GTL our shipping business and USG Boral results improved over last year so I'd like to say we're off to a good start in 2015.
We achieved our fourth consecutive year of wallboard price improvement that outpaced inflation.
Now I know there's a lot of considerable attention paid to wallboard price and I want to assure you we're working every day in a very competitive environment to maximize our margins.
We grew our volume.
We held our costs firm and achieved price improvement which created higher margins.
As we look at continued improvement in demand I want to remind you that in past recoveries margin on wallboard accelerates as capacity rates improve.
If you recall from our discussion last quarter our 2015 wallboard not-to-exceed price is effective through October 31 of this year.
We have fine-tuned our strategy and believe having a conversation with our customers about a price increase in the fall – which as many of you know is the strongest demand time of the year – will enable us to better capture pricing for the value and help reduce some of the pre-buy activities we've seen in past years.
We have not yet determined what that price amount will be but there's numerous factors we're going to look at as we get later on in the year.
Demand inflation regionality weather effective capacity utilization will all influence our position on our pricing as the year unfolds.
Finally in the light of this extended recovery we made some adjustments to our spending.
We have scaled back our 2015 SG&amp;A spending projections by $20 million which is lower than it was last year in 2014.
I want to assure you we're still investing in growth with this plan.
But our management team is very focused on cost management to drive improved results for you our shareholders.
Now let's turn to each of our segments and talk about the first quarter.
Our Gypsum segment generated $68 million of adjusted operating profit in the first quarter.
There are two great stories coming out of the Gypsum segment.
First is US Wallboard.
I've already touched on the pricing improvement of wallboard during the quarter but pricing is not the end of the story.
Just as important as our price increase is what we'd (6:35) able to do on the cost front.
Our plan efficiencies are at all-time high.
Our strategic sourcing efforts and we did have a tailwind from natural gas did help us offset inflationary pressures from other input costs but we worked on price and cost during the quarter.
Along with pricing costs volume was strong with about a 9% increase in our shipments during the quarter.
The second story in Gypsum is our performance of our Surfaces and our Substrate businesses.
Investors who follow us closely already know this but we're much more than a wallboard company.
Our Surfaces and Substrate businesses are led by market-leading brands and products like our Sheetrock brand joint treatment and Durock cement board.
These businesses diversify the earnings within the Gypsum segment and they dampen the volatility of our wallboard business throughout the entire cycle.
In the first quarter we really saw these businesses shine by contributing $5 million of incremental operating profit.
This improvement came from our Sheetrock joint treatment Durock also Levelrock flooring and our Securock sheathing.
And we did this with a combination of price improvement we lowered our costs and we grew the business.
We also expect continued strength in these businesses throughout this year in 2015.
Now turning to our Ceilings business.
We earned $21 million in the first quarter an increase of $6 million over last year.
We implemented a price increase in our tile products during the first quarter realized stronger volume and incurred lower costs compared to last year when we saw significant spikes in natural gas costs.
We continue to see our customers' preferences shifting towards premium high-performance tile and away from the commodity tile line.
It was this premium tile line which has higher margins that accounted for the majority of our volume improvement in the quarter.
Our Distribution business L&amp;W Supply saw a $3 million improvement in operating profit in the quarter.
Revenue was up 11%; wallboard volume increased 15%; and we had strong store sales improving 10%.
We are seeing early signs of improvement in Distribution but I want to assure you: it's still not at the level of profit generation that I expect from the business.
But an improving commercial market the cost reductions that we currently and will continue to take and key operating initiatives will all contribute to growing L&amp;W's bottom line.
Finally we completed our first year in the USG Boral joint venture during the quarter.
USG Boral was a key part of our strategy and will be a significant catalyst of our growth going forward.
During the quarter UltraLight or Next Gen as we refer to it in that part of the world reached conversion rates of over 25% for ceiling applications in Australia with a price premium.
We look for continued strength at USG Boral through high-growth regions adoption rate improvement and complementary product expansion like ceilings and joint treatment.
Now I'd like to spend a few more minutes discussing our plan to win.
While all three pillars of our plan are key to our success I'd really like to dig a little deeper in strengthening our core businesses which is North American manufacturing and distribution.
Our focus on strengthening the core of our business we do that every day and we've been doing that for the last five years.
We do it when we capture price improvement that reflects the full value proposition of our products.
We do it when our Lean Six Sigma program takes costs out of our manufacturing processes and when we focus on spending and investment levels.
These efforts are evident this quarter and it's because of the results of our two major businesses U.S.
Gypsum and our Ceilings business in the United States.
In our U.S.
Gypsum business margins improved to 13.8% or 270 basis points.
Along with that our Ceilings business in the U.S.
improved to 17.1% an increase of 630 basis points.
So both companies had margin expansion during the quarter.
We're also lowering the break-even in these businesses.
We're doing it by improving our price; stronger volume and cost control all contributed to this margin lift at both U.S.
Gypsum and USG Ceilings.
These two businesses are going to generate the significant share of cash that we use to de-lever our balance sheet.
And as you all know a strong balance sheet strengthens our core of our entire portfolio and is going to position us throughout the next cycle.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Matt and he's going to dig into some of the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
So let's start right off with our first quarter results.
Our net sales were up 7% from the first quarter of 2014 and our operating profit increased by $10 million.
But most importantly on an adjusted basis operating profit increased $15 million from $69 million to $84 million.
We recorded GAAP net income of $24 million compared to $45 million last year; and again on an adjusted basis net income more than doubled from $19 million to $43 million with adjusted EPS rising $0.15.
The only difference between our adjusted net income and our GAAP net income this quarter relates to the refinancing costs on our $350 million of 8.375 senior notes.
Lastly our adjusted EBITDA which includes the results from USG Boral increased 15% to $132 million.
So now let's turn over and move into some of the details.
In our Gypsum business we saw $3 million of adjusted operating profit improvement but this $3 million doesn't tell the whole story.
This $3 million of operating profit improvement is off a base that includes $8 million of prior-year earnings in GTL our non-core shipping business which we are exiting; and $7 million of benefit related to last year's reversal of an asset retirement obligation in our mining operations.
So excluding those contributions to prior-year operating profit the real takeaways from Gypsum this quarter are an $18 million of improved operating profit 250 basis points of operating margin improvement to 12% and a 42% incremental operating leverage in the business.
In addition to the price improvement that Jim talked about we saw greater efficiencies and about a 9% increase in wallboard shipments that drove the lion's share of our improvement.
In addition we saw price increases in virtually every product we sold.
Our Surfaces and Substrate business improved because of price efficiencies and volumes.
Let me take a moment and discuss GTL our shipping business.
Let me remind everybody: USG has owned and operated ships for over 100 years.
They've been an integral part of our business.
And as I said last quarter we have been reviewing our strategic options around the ships.
We've considered a number of paths and in the end we concluded that these assets were non-core and selling them just made the most sense.
So we went through a comprehensive process and as a result we have entered into agreements to sell the ships.
And there are four things that I'd really like you to take away today.
First we have agreements in place to sell the ships for around $42 million which are subject to the final inspections and customary closing conditions.
Second we expect to close very shortly.
Third our net cash is roughly $10 million after paying off the mortgages and finishing our operation.
And lastly our net loss on full year earnings will be about $5 million after netting our $6 million gain on sale all of which is going to be wrapped up in the second quarter.
So I'm pleased with the agreements and I look forward to getting these things closed.
And for clarification going forward starting in the second quarter we will exclude all of GTL's results from our adjusted operating profit from both 2014 and 2015 so that our quarterly comparisons going forward won't be distorted.
Moving to Ceilings sales increased $5 million to $123 million after adjusting the prior-year sales of entities contributed to the USG Boral joint venture in February of last year.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 40% over last year from $15 million to $21 million.
And the U.S.
territory was clearly the driving force behind this performance with 630 basis points of operating margin improvement to 16.5%.
Now to be fair our first quarter performance did benefit from better weather conditions compared to last year which helped lift volumes and lower cost a bit.
And we did have a modest price increase this February that helped the quarter too.
Now let's quickly touch on distribution where we saw roughly an 11% increase in sales driven primarily by improved commercial and multi-family residential.
Our adjusted operating profit increased by $3 million and our delivery costs as a percentage of sales were flat to last year.
Moving to our USG Boral joint venture sales for the total JV were $228 million in the first quarter of 2015 and the whole joint venture generated $23 million of income – of operating profit with $8 million as our portion of equity income.
Please remember that last year's results only had one month so straight comparisons really aren't meaningful.
There's also some seasonality that I'd like to highlight.
The first quarter is typically the lightest quarter of the year.
And even within the quarter January and February are typically slower than March due to the Chinese New Year holiday and there's some other holidays in there as well.
Frankly that's an important data point when you look at our first quarter performance versus March of last year because the results in the first quarter of 2015 might look flat to down at first blush but – if you simply extrapolate March from last year.
However if you take a look at it on an apples-to-apples basis March of 2015 was a stronger month than March of 2014 for the joint venture.
So the takeaway is that the business is doing well and we're very pleased with where it's headed.
As it relates I would also like to point out that we continue to be on track to realize the full $50 million of synergies over the course of the next three years.
And as it relates to cash from the JV we've been targeting and do target dividends equal to 50% of earnings which are to be paid semi-annually.
And I'm pleased to report that the JV will pay its very first dividend in May of this year to USG to the tune of $18 million.
And just to remind everybody we plan to use our dividends to fund the potential earn-out payments to Boral which could amount to $75 million over the next four years.
Before I turn it back to Jim I want to comment on our SG&amp;A reductions and walk through a few other pieces of our financial outlook for 2015.
As Jim said we are scaling back our SG&amp;A spending for 2015.
We've taken $20 million out of forecasted SG&amp;A spending for the year and our revised guidance puts us at about $325 million for this year.
Thinking about our spending pattern for the year you'll likely see SG&amp;A in Q2 and Q3 slightly higher than what you saw in 2014 but with much less spending in the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And as Jim said it's important for everyone to know that we are absolutely committed to investing in our businesses and our people.
But we need to invest in a manner that reflects the pace of this recovery and not get ahead of ourselves given where we are in this cycle.
I'd like to raise a news topic for everybody which is related to our income tax outlook.
And this is actually good news because it's based on positive earnings growth.
I have told you that we would give you a heads-up when we reach that window of time before we reverse our valuation allowance.
So this is my heads-up to you.
Based on our forecasted profitability in the U.S.
we may release all or a portion of our $1 billion domestic tax valuation allowance by the end of 2015.
When we release the valuation allowance otherwise known as the VA we'll realize a significant non-cash income tax benefit in our GAAP results.
But most importantly as we move forward we'll record income tax expense but we'll pay no U.S.
federal tax until we fully absorb our $1.9 billion net operating loss.
So this does not impact cash only the P&amp;L.
From an income tax expense standpoint we anticipate our annual global effective tax rate will be between 29% and 31%.
There will be no impact to the results of USG Boral because they're recorded net of tax and there is no impact to Canada or Mexico either.
And just to remind everybody until we release the VA we expect our tax expense to amount to roughly $2 million a quarter.
Just a quick note on foreign currency because I know that's on everybody's mind.
For the first quarter we saw roughly a $1 million FX headwind in Canada and a $1 million headwind in USG Boral.
For the balance of the year we think FX could unfavorably impact our earnings by $6 million on an all-in basis if rates do not move any further.
And let me give you a quick FX sensitivity for Canada and USG Boral in case rates do move further.
Taking into consideration hedges that we have in place as of March 31 for Canada our net exposure to a 5% change in the Canadian-U.S.
dollar exchange rate is approximately $4 million for 2015.
And then looking at the USG Boral JV for 2015 a 5% change in the underlying current season the JV versus the U.S.
dollar could impact our equity method income by $3 million a year as well.
A final point on our outlook: we are absolutely committed to organically de-levering our balance sheet.
We have some upcoming debt payments.
And in particular our $500 million bullet that is due late next year which is clearly in our sights.
And we also have additional debt that we will also pay down as we march towards our leverage target ratio of 1.5 to 2 times debt-to-EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
So with that I'll turn things back to you Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we open it up to questions I'd like to share a few thoughts on our market outlook for this year in 2015.
Our first quarter results reinforce our view on the positive direction of each of our key markets.
On new residential we continue to believe in 1.1 million housing starts for 2015 which represents about a 10% growth and this is inclusive of any headwinds that we see in some of the oil and gas regions of the Southwest.
If housing starts come in north of 1.1 million we're well positioned to manage the upside and as you know we always have a contingency plan for any headwinds that we may encounter.
While this is a more evenly paced residential recovery here in the United States it's different than in past recoveries.
But we do believe that a stronger extended recovery will enable us to generate more value versus a quick peak followed by a trough market.
Now moving to new commercial.
The continued improvement of the U.S.
economy and labor market is supporting an increase in non-residential construction.
Commercial starts are projected to increase 9% in 2015.
Now as a reminder our products lag commercial starts by about 12 to 18 months and not all starts impact our business the same way.
Saying that we believe we're going to see steady improvement in commercial this year with growth rates for our products in the mid-single digit rate.
Now turning to repair and remodel.
When we look at this end-market for this year we consider the data on existing home sales commercial renovation projects and U.S.
home prices we expect to see mid-single digit growth this year.
This is in line with some outside experts like the Harvard Joint Center for Housing and their leading indicator for remodeling activity.
Last but certainly not least I'd like to discuss our market opportunity in the 12 USG Boral countries.
As you know we have the number one or two position in the markets that USG Boral serves.
This is a great growth potential – or excuse me – there's great growth potential in these markets and we're seeing it from urbanization and adoption of Western construction practices and both of these play into the sweet spot of USG Boral products and systems.
As Matt just mentioned currency is currently a headwind but we still see mid- to high-single digit growth expected in these regions.
Also $50 million of synergies is going to be realized over the next few years.
In capturing price premiums in this market there's a lot for us to be excited about in the USG Boral countries.
So with that I'd like to open up the call for question.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
You may begin.
Good morning.
It's actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
My question is related to Ceilings.
I was hoping you could give us some more color in terms of what you're seeing in terms of your Ceilings volumes from a regional perspective.
And then as you think about some of the trends that you're seeing between a higher-end ceiling versus the lower price points and how much mix helped the business for the quarter.
And then also if you could talk about the different commercial end markets that you're selling to on the Ceiling side and where you're seeing relative strength.
And then on the new construction front versus repair and model as well if you could give us a little bit of color in terms of what you're seeing there that would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So that was about five questions so I'm going to try to wrap that into one but thank you for your questions.
We're really happy with our Ceilings results.
And the growth in volume in the quarter was really on the premium.
You hit the nail on the head on our premium products our high-end products.
And we're seeing much more specifications on the high-end with open-office spaces.
Light reflectance is very important; the noise reduction is extremely important because you don't have a lot of closed office spaces now; and those are our high-NRC or noise-reduction-coefficient ceilings.
The good news is we invested on the last couple of years at a couple of our plants one being Cloquet Minnesota to expand our high-end premium line.
So the growth you saw in the first quarter was on our high-end ceilings and what – the good news about it – those are high-margin products as well.
So the trend is continuing that way and that's one reason why we put some capital over the last couple of years there.
In parts of the country I like to say there's kind of the golden horseshoe of commercial construction starting with the Silicon Valley out west working its way through California and the Southwest.
And up probably into the D.C.
area where it tends to slow.
So we're seeing nice growth there.
Our contractors are starting to report good backlogs which is good for the commercial opportunity.
But our ceilings not only go into new commercial they're very big in remodel and office space.
What we're looking at from an opportunity in the commercial markets the office construction is the strongest part of the commercial recovery.
That is a double-digit growth 10% 11% opportunity improvement in office.
Education is the next area is followed by retail so those are really the three top areas that are the subsets in the commercial recovery which again it's coming from a very low base but we're starting to see some nice green shoots in that segment.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
You may begin.
Hey good morning everyone and congrats on a very very solid quarter.
Also congrats on some...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
...congrats on getting rid of the boats.
That's got to feel good.
Wanted to ask you you had 270 basis points of operating margin expansion in U.S.
Gypsum and you had really strong margin growth of 630 basis points in Ceilings.
And I just kind of want to understand what's driving the huge margin expansion you're seeing in a relatively low volume environment.
Is it sustainable? And if you're getting this better mix shift in Ceilings in particular that you called out what should we be thinking about going forward for margin profile for these businesses? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thanks Bob.
I appreciate your comments and the margin expansion in both Gypsum and Ceilings we're very focused on and it's really all three.
We got price improvement ahead of inflation in both wallboard and ceiling tile.
We really focused on plant efficiencies and costs and that's something we don't talk a lot about but our wallboard plants are running at all-time highs.
We look at recovery speed and delay.
And also we got some volume lift.
We had a 9% volume lift in wallboard and we think this year the market is going to be relatively strong compared to last year from an opportunity standpoint.
So it's really all three: price volume and cost.
And we're going to continue to press on each one of those.
If you look at past recoveries on the wallboard business as capacity utilization increases that gives us some opportunity for margin expansion.
And on Ceilings the trend really is on the high end.
You're starting to see less of the – as we call it – commodity tile being used even in homes.
So that's one reason why we invested the last couple of years in our plants because we were actually sold out of our high-end ceiling tile products.
Along with that is our strategic sourcing efforts on grid.
We really watch where the world prices are on steel.
And we want to make sure we continue to get margin expansion on our leading grid business too.
So there's not one lever we're pulling here Bob.
It's where we're controlling the controllables.
And we're very focused on costs and efficiencies getting that value proposition from our products to get margin expansion.
And we think the market finally on the commercial side is going to give us a little help.
Got it.
If I could just sneak one in.
Matt Hilzinger mentioned he's lowering SG&amp;A spend by $20 million.
How much harder can you push the cost control story? I wasn't expecting this that you're growing revenues and growing the business but you're still taking cost out.
Are you taking meat out? Are you getting close to the bone? And that's it.
Thanks very much and good luck.
Bob that's something that we've been doing for 113 years at USG.
We're very focused on cost not only at the plants of running it efficiently but running it safely.
We feel that we can use a weed-and-feed scenario where we feed growth projects but there's other areas that we want to continue to have more efficient ways to do things.
And one of the – one of our big initiatives is Lean Six Sigma.
And we think we can be more efficient and take costs out and grow the business.
So it's a little bit of an ambidextrous strategy but we feel that we can continue to keep our breakeven low and grow our business with products and new innovation.
And that would equate to great margin expansion of your question earlier.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from Michael Wood from Macquarie Group.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Congratulations on the results.
Could you just give a little more color on the wallboard cost reduction year-over-year whether or not you think that may be sustainable throughout the year? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We did get some headwinds or some help with natural gas.
That's something that helped us year-on-year.
But we also had inflation and other input costs in wallboards.
So we have a very focused approach on strategic sourcing.
We look at all of our commodity costs and we're very – we run a very lean organization.
We believe in automation is very important in our manufacturing processes.
So cost containment at our plant is extremely important.
And running our plants – and we've learned to run our plants at still some fairly low capacity utilization rates.
So as capacity utilization improves which we think it's going to that's also going to help our efficiencies there.
So it's running the plants with as much automation as we can doing it safely strategic sourcing.
And then with the – hopefully increase of capacity utilization with demand increases all will help maintain our positive cost management.
And this is Matt Hilzinger if I could just add onto that.
So the $2 million that you saw in the cost improvement quarter-after-quarter as Jim said it really came from efficiencies to higher volumes.
So we expect to continue as Jim said around the volume piece so we'd expect to get some benefit there.
And then we did get a pretty big tailwind in the first quarter for natural gas.
And we would expect some tailwind in the later quarter but not quite as great as what we saw in the first quarter.
You may recall just last year with the polar vortex it was – natural gas was pretty expensive.
So I think the tailwind in the first quarter for natural gas was probably higher than what you'd see through the balance of the year.
So I think as Jim said we're going to continue to drive and manage our costs but I think that delta is something that was driven primarily by kind of natural gas this quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from Suntrust.
You may begin.
Thank you.
You had some great wallboard volumes in the quarter you and the industry.
So my question is talking to your distributors is this being characterized as a pre-buy? Was the volume even throughout the quarter or is this the demand they're seeing? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The volume we saw in the quarter was not a pre-buy.
That would have been in the fourth.
You'd have seen that in the fourth quarter of this year.
You saw – parts of the country were very very strong so this was a good solid increase.
Now there – we did have some tough weather last year but if you recall January and February were still really tough in the Northeast this year.
So probably 20% of that volume increase you could take away because of weather last year on a comparison but even backing out 20% of the 9% 10% growth it was good organic growth.
And we think this year from a volume perspective is going to be better than last year.
So we're starting to see each one of the segments with commercial always being lagging.
We've been talking in the past about commercial being choppy and we're starting to see some good slow growth in commercial which is going to help overall demand.
Is this kind of pace sustainable for the year? Or this kind of growth rate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We don't give – the overall projections if you look at what we shipped last year as an overall industry there's various industry reports that show that the growth this year is anywhere going to be between 5% and 10% depending on what report you look at.
So you're directionally correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow Research.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Congratulations.
I just wanted to follow up on the wallboard volume question looking specifically at distribution your volumes were up 15% and it outpaced your selling volumes about 9%.
I'm just wondering if you could talk maybe a little bit more on why distribution volumes outpaced your wallboard manufacturing volumes by that extent.
Was there some regional variance? Was there some market share opportunities that you're taking advantage of? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a great question and you touched on one area.
We're in a very regional business that L&amp;W Supply.
We always talk about it as one but it is a very local regional business.
And just to remind everyone L&amp;W we really don't have a footprint in New England.
So New England got hammered with weather.
So we think that had an impact on our – we were basically this year where the weather wasn't as bad compared to 2004 (sic) [2104] (39:06).
So it was a regional.
Also we're starting to see as you know L&amp;W is linked a lot with the commercial business and we're starting to see tighter production schedules.
Our large commercial contractors are starting to see shortages in skilled labor.
So getting the product on time on the job safely is really important for us at L&amp;W Supply.
So our contractors tend to go to the reliable distributors and we feel that we've done a great job with our current customers in the region.
So it's really doing a great job in a tight-skill market for our commercial contractors and it's a regional situation because we aren't in New England.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys.
Wanted to ask about the Gypsum business.
The way we run the numbers it looked like you realized a price increase year-on-year of about 2%.
And I was wondering if you could give some color around maybe the puts and takes around the price growth that you saw? I'm thinking in terms of regions was there any regional impact differences I should say and maybe customer mix and that kind of thing? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Stephen.
Just to kind of – let me step back a little bit on our wallboard price and frame a couple of things up.
As we said and I mentioned many times about our value proposition that we have going to the market we innovate and you've heard a lot about innovation things like UltraLight innovation all the way through to architectural specifications to the job site.
We're very vertically integrated.
We make and deliver it but there's a lot of work that happens specifying our products and particularly getting a wallboard into our customers' hands.
And if you wrap it up we're number one or number two in each one of these positions.
Our Gypsum portfolio is more than wallboard.
As I mentioned our Substrates and Surfaces are big.
Our Ceilings L&amp;W.
So I like to say we go from the lab to the lobby of a building.
And quite frankly it's a value proposition that's kind of hard to match in the industry.
But when we look at price improvement we're in a very competitive market and we do get a premium in every – most if not every market we serve on wallboard.
So if you look at the – if you do a channel check of what a customer would pay for USG versus Brand X we do get a price premium.
We look at – we also – and that's just not on UltraLight as well.
This is a price premium on – just regular Sheetrock classic.
What we've been looking at is how could we grow our margins Stephen and we want to continue to beat inflation and most importantly expand our margin.
So we're in a very competitive market.
There are some regions and segments we got more price increase than others but I'm pleased to report that we did get price improvement if you look nationwide.
So we're going to continue to focus on beating inflation.
If you look from a historical standpoint as capacity utilization improves and demand improves we hope to get margin expansion not only through price but also cost containment as I said earlier.
So we're – as the CEO I always would prefer and really push our people to get more price improvement.
Am I ever happy on a certain amount? No.
I mean even the last few years I'd like to get more and more.
But we beat inflation.
We've controlled our costs and we think we're still in those mid innings of the recovery.
So we're optimistic about continuing to outpace the inflation.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So I guess just to paraphrase or to clarify there really wasn't any particular region or customer type that was meaningfully different in terms of the price contribution this quarter right? That's what you're saying? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's nothing real meaningful – some were up more or less.
It is a regional business.
We got stronger price improvement in certain areas where demand is stronger.
But there wasn't any big outliers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much for that.
And our next question comes from Phil Ng from Jefferies.
You may begin.
Good morning.
Did time of the wallboard price increase come through a little later this year? So would you see more contribution in 2Q or is this a pretty good run rate for the rest of the year? And I guess longer term do you expect any dislocation in your business due to the way how you're implementing your price increases here for 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
What we expect this year Philip is basically the steady price throughout the year is similar to what you've seen the last few years.
So there may be a little variation as we see.
We ship product into Canada.
There's different segments but you're not going to see a bounce around up as we go into the quarter.
We do have a not-to-exceed price.
So it does give us an opportunity to – if we have quoted a customer one price and it ended up at a different level we have a not-to-exceed so it does give us some flexibility.
But again that's been in our pricing policies the last four years.
So that should be basically in your models what you see now.
As we look at 2016 as I said in my prepared comments our pricing this year goes to the end of October.
We think that's a very positive approach for us.
We're fine-tuning the strategy that we feel has worked really well for our customers and ourselves.
And we'll be having those discussions sometime late summer with our customers to talk about 2016.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
You may begin.
Hi.
Good morning guys and thanks.
I just wanted to ask on the distribution business if you were to look over the last year or even the last two years about 10% of the revenue growth is dropping down to profit.
Is that your expectation of the business sort of on a run rate basis? And if not how do you think about either improving that or how that might trend in the near-term? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The way – if you look at the historic returns of L&amp;W mid-cycle returns are around 4% to 5% for the business.
And we've done a lot of work as I mentioned.
We flattened the organization.
We have some very focused operational proprietary operational initiatives.
And we're very focused on the commercial business which if you look at previous cycles we were more heavily weighted on residential.
So historic mid-cycles around 5% for the business.
If you would believe the initiatives we put in I would hope we would have something greater than that.
I'm sorry Jim when you're talking return you're saying the margin? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
You may begin.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
This is Drew Lipke actually on for Trey.
Sticking on the L&amp;W piece when you look at that from a strategic perspective longer-term we're seeing a lot of consolidation in the distribution end market.
What's kind of the longer-term outlook for you guys strategically with that piece of the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> As I mentioned our core business is North American manufacturing and distribution.
We think having L&amp;W gives us a strategic advantage from a vertical integration.
It gives us lens to 30 000 contractors plus the opportunity to get profit for the corporation on products that we don't manufacture.
Just to – if you recall more than half of the products that L&amp;W sells and distributes are non-USG products.
We're the largest distributor of ceiling tile and grid commercial insulation steel studs.
In fact one of the early indicators we're seeing of an early recovery in commercial is our steel stud business is extremely strong which is very early in the cycle.
So we believe that getting the returns is very important.
As I said in the previous call we're very focused on getting the returns not only to mid-cycle returns but improving on those.
And we think it gives us a strategic advantage in the market.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
For U.S.
interiors how much did volume and price contribute to earnings in the quarter? And just for wallboard could you reconfirm what you said earlier in your prepared comments you were at full capacity utilization.
But could you clarify that capacity utilization and just reconfirm that you have no desire to reopen idled capacity.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me touch on the idle capacity Kathryn and I'll turn it over to Matt so that he can tick and tie some of those numbers but we feel that as I said if there's an upside to the 1.1 million housing starts we still have room at our current facilities to take care of those needs.
At this point there is absolutely no intention or decision to have idle capacity.
Anything we've idled is old capacity it's inefficient capacity and having very efficient operations is extremely important from a cost perspective.
So we feel with the volume that we see over the next 24 months that can be handled with some staffing.
Staffing would be the first thing we would do and that's about a three- to six-month process to staff a plant which is the most inexpensive way to do it.
But you have to make sure that the demand is durable.
The next would be a line that would done at a current facility.
And the third would be idle capacity which right now is not our plans.
Hey Kathryn.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
Just responding to your question on Ceilings.
As Jim said earlier in his prepared remarks we had a very good quarter in Ceilings.
Margins improved to over 17% on the EBIT line so about 430 basis points and it came from both price and we had a tile increase in February that came through that helped us.
We made some progress on the cost side in part by volumes but in large part due to a lot of the cost measures that Jim had outlined and then we had a little bit of volume.
And I would – we had about $2 million worth of volume.
And as Jim said we've seen some resurgence back in the commercial market.
And I think that's what's really driving that.
So when you look at the margin and you look at price on tiles we have had and as Jim said we've seen a continued increase in the higher margin products.
And that's generally about a third of our business.
And not to get into details for all sorts of reasons but we've seen a reasonable shift in that part of the business over the last two years.
And from a capacity standpoint I think we're positioned pretty well to be able to put more of that product out in the marketplace.
And I think we will – we feel very good about where Ceilings is going particularly based on what they've done here in the first quarter.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee Corp.
You may begin.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a couple of follow-ups on things that you've already touched on.
One is: you talked about the input cost particularly on the (52:23) on wallboard and also ceilings.
Can you unpack the cost of your inputs and talk about maybe what other inputs were up a little bit in the quarter and kind of how that balances maybe some numbers on what the benefit was from (52:39) versus maybe higher costs on some other parts of the mix.
And then – could you – you mentioned that your steel stud business has been very strong.
Can you talk about how much volumes there are up? Thanks.
Hey Todd.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
So on the cost side on wallboard just to remind everybody I would think of it as kind of six components.
So you've got waste paper at 20% gypsum rock which is 15% all the other raw materials is 15%.
Energy is 15%.
Labor is 15% and then fixed is about 20%.
So if you think about those we clearly benefit from the volume going through the fixed component.
We saw increases in labor so we had a wage increase in – during the – at the beginning of the year.
And we've seen gypsum particularly synthetic gypsum increase year-over-year as well as some of the other raw materials.
Waste paper is up a little bit but we're generally seeing inflation in most areas.
On natural gas we did see – as I said in my comments we did see natural gas come down a little bit from what we saw in the first quarter.
So last year full-year all in our cost for natural gas was about $4.15.
And I think at the end of the – or the beginning of the first quarter on our last call we said hey we would expect that to be about flat.
Well we've actually seen natural gas come down right? I mean the forward curve right now is about $2.80.
We're about 75% hedged.
So I would say that on 15% of the input cost we could see a little bit of a tailwind.
Whether that will offset all of the inflation we have in the other components I think that's an open question right? I mean that's something that we're going to obviously watch and manage as best we can but we would expect to see some tailwind on gas if the forward and the spot remain relatively low.
So I think we saw a bigger tailwind in the first quarter than what we saw in the – than what we'll see in the second third and fourth quarter.
But as you know natural gas moves around and we'll see a little bit of fluctuation.
So I thought maybe I'd turn it over and let Jim address your question on steel studs to give you a sense of what's going on there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
I'd mentioned the results at our Distribution business on steel and if you look at just logically with the building – as buildings are being constructed the studs go in much earlier.
As I've said and you've seen our lag on commercial construction for most of our products is 12 to 18 months 18 months with ceilings which goes in last.
12 months is typically wallboard and steel studs may be even sooner than that when you build – when you fit out a tenant improvement.
So that's kind of a leading indicator that we're starting to see some green shoots in commercial which we believe is very positive not only for L&amp;W but for the rest of our portfolio.
And we saw a nice 10% 11% increase in steel studs and this is not from a dollar this is a unit standpoint so we took out any type of inflation or deflation in the price and that's just from a unit basis.
So that's just one metric of many.
And we're still cautiously optimistic on commercial but I think we're past thinking about it as being choppy.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Good color.
Thanks a lot.
And we have time for one last question.
And our last question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
You may begin.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just wanted to go back to a previous question and just on the whole idea of staffing versus the idling capacity and asking specifically about the SG&amp;A changes.
In the previous SG&amp;A expectations was there contemplation that you'd be adding a shift at some point in 2015 and is that the main – one of the main drivers of the decrease now that maybe you've shifted that out to 2016.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
Adding a shift would not end up in SG&amp;A.
So the SG&amp;A is really basically overhead costs that we see.
The corporate office IT.
So that was programs that we paused or stopped.
So that was true.
SG&amp;A reduction had nothing to do with stopping at our plants.
Yeah.
I would add on the SG&amp;A side Mike it's really – it was a combination of a lot of things.
Right? I mean we looked at our IT.
We bought some IT.
We actually looked at doing some things more internally versus external.
Right? External consultants cost a lot of money.
So we've looked at internalizing some of this.
We've been very judicial on head count where head count matters – where we need to have it; we've scaled back a little bit in our marketing.
We're scaled back a little bit in our travel.
Right? I mean we need to travel in a thoughtful way to go see our customers and our vendors.
But we've scaled that back.
So there's been an overall general belt tightening.
It's been very thoughtful and very very focused.
And those areas of the business that we still believe that there is an opportunity whether it's R&amp;D or new products we're going to make the investments there.
So this is not – we aren't starving the business.
We're making the investments where it makes sense.
So I hope that's helpful.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Then a quick second question.
And sorry if I missed this but...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> We have to wrap this up Mike.
I apologize because we still had some people in queue that did not get their questions answered.
So we would like to wrap up on the one question.
And we do appreciate your interest and I apologize to the folks that were in queue that did not get in and we hopefully will be able to answer all your questions in the future.
But with that I'd just like to wrap up and just say we appreciate your interest in USG.
And as you can probably tell with Matt and my comments that we're pretty optimistic about 2015.
We're a company that's looking at improved demand in all of our end markets.
And these end markets though are still below historical averages.
We're positioning ourselves to organically pay down our debt and that's really important.
We're very focused on our balance sheet and we want to have a strong balance sheet getting into the next cycle.
We're laser-focused on our core operations and hopefully that came through in some of the comments we had earlier and through the Q&amp;A.
And we're working hard.
As Matt just said we're focused on SG&amp;A and head count and cost containment.
But we're working very hard to bring new and innovative products to market.
And we have some really cool things that we're going to be talking about here very soon.
And we're going to continue to bring products to our customers that make them more successful.
I'm really proud of what we've accomplished so far.
But quite frankly I'm more excited about what we have ahead.
So I appreciate your interest and questions.
And we'll look forward to catching up with you next quarter.
Thanks Jim.
A tape replay of this call will be available until Thursday May 7.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.