Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 USG Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under Securities Laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss the second quarter are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into businesses.
Matt will then review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A session callers are asked to limit themselves to one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
Let me start by saying we had a very strong quarter and half way through the year we're really seeing momentum build in all of our businesses.
We had the best adjusted net income since the fourth quarter of 2006.
The fourth quarter of 2006 think of that that's when they were over 1.6 million homes being built.
We had growth and expanded our margins in all of our businesses and our USG Boral joint venture continues to grow.
I'm looking forward to reviewing these wonderful results and taking your questions but first I'd like to take a minute and touch on our strategy.
USG has a history of leading the building products industry.
Our Gypsum Ceilings and Distribution businesses now coupled with USG Boral in Asia and Australasia are successfully building on our history by executing our plan to win.
By strengthening the core of our North American manufacturing and distribution businesses diversifying our earnings base through USG Boral and differentiating through world-class innovation.
We at USG are building a stronger and leaner company.
The story on USG today in 2015 is both positive and I'd like to say straightforward.
We expect demand improvement coupled with expanding operating margins which you're going to see in the current results.
And going forward we will generate the levels of free cash flow to support our debt paydown strategy and continue to reinvest and grow our business.
Now let's turn to some details of the quarter.
In our Gypsum segment all three of our businesses wallboard surfaces and substrates contributed to achieving the best adjusted operating margin since 2006.
In wallboard increased volume lower nat gas costs and cost reductions through our Lean Six Sigma programs drove margin expansion in $14 million of improved profitability.
Surfaces and substrates which are critical components of our Gypsum segment these are products like our leading market share joint treatment and our growth product commercial roof board they provide a full portfolio of products for our customers.
These important products and sales of these brands drove $9 million of incremental profit and the volume of our Securock commercial roof board hit record levels during the quarter.
Moving to Ceilings.
We saw margin expansion improving to just over 19%.
Ceilings earned $25 million in adjusted operating profit; improvements came from pricing and cost for ceiling tile that drove performance over a very strong 2014 comp second quarter.
Now to L&amp;W Supply.
We continue to see improving trends with operating margins more than doubling in the quarter.
Comp store sales increased 5% and wallboard volume was up 7%.
Adjusted operating profit of $9 million is the highest in over seven years.
While I'm very pleased that we're moving in the right direction at L&amp;W we still aren't to our expected ROIC targets and we still have some work ahead of us but we're making progress.
USG Boral turned in another strong quarter with adjusted operating margin breaking to 13%.
We continue to see conversion of our standard plasterboard to our UltraLight or in that part of the world NextGen board during the quarter.
Adjacent product volume grew led by joint treatment with Australia being the strongest market growing at 10% per adjacent products.
Realizing synergies in our combined business has been a major focus and we are tracking ahead of schedule and I'm very pleased with those results.
In fact 16 months into the joint venture we now estimate that USG Boral has realized 20% of the targeted $50 million that we've talked about in past calls.
Before Matt takes a detailed look into our second quarter results I'd like to update you on our plan to win.
Last quarter if you recall I reviewed our advancements in part of our plan to win on strengthening our core as we continue to make progress in North American manufacturing and distribution and you see those in the results.
Today I'd like to review how we differentiate through innovation and specifically come back to our substrates business.
While wallboard and surfaces primarily are installed in the interior of either a residential or commercial building many of our substrates products are used in the exterior envelope of a commercial building.
Last month we partnered with Tremco which is part of RPM International out of Ohio and we announced a new exterior air and water barrier system with the product that we call Securock ExoAir 430.
This innovation answers the challenges that our customers have been having with existing systems and bringing them a better solution.
With this new product the air barrier system is pre-applied during the manufacturing process compared to being sprayed on the job site.
This makes it easier to install with less material waste and provides a better system for our customer and the owner of the building.
As you've seen in our UltraLight portfolio products ease of installation is key for our customers particularly commercial construction where labor rates are extremely high and USG premium products help reduce those labor costs.
We're in an introduction phase of this system but the customer response has been great and I'm very excited about rolling this product out throughout the country.
Product innovations in growth businesses like substrates give us a larger share of wallet in that commercial business that helps diversify our earnings.
Before I turn it over to Matt to talk more about the details I want to cover one of additional topic.
There was a hearing last week to approve the settlement of our antitrust class actions and given that no one came to the hearing to object we are very optimistic that the settlement will be approved.
In addition we've become aware that a federal grand jury is investigating domestic wallboard manufacturers including U.S.
Gypsum over what appears to be the same issues raised in these class actions.
We're fully cooperating obviously with this investigation.
And as we've said in the past and this is very important we establish our pricing and selling practices independently and are in full compliance with the law.
We do not expect this investigation to have a significant incremental impact on our financial results.
So with that I'd like to turn it over to Matt who will dig into the financial results for the quarter and I'll come back with some comments before Q&amp;A.
Matt? Thanks Jim.
And good morning everyone.
I'll kick things off by walking through our consolidated results for the second quarter.
Our GAAP net sales were up 2% to $970 million and our GAAP net income was $79 million with diluted earnings per share of $0.54.
Before discussing our adjusted results I'll offer a brief reminder that beginning with this quarter our current and prior period results exclude the results from GTL our shipping operation that we exited in April earlier this year.
In addition we do not expect any continuing financial impact of GTL going forward.
So in order to compare our sales and earnings on an apples-to-apples basis in this quarter and all quarters going forward our adjusted sales and earnings numbers exclude all GTL activity.
So with that said adjusted sales for the second quarter improved over 4% and we saw margins expand across all of our businesses.
Our adjusted operating profit improved by almost 40% and our adjusted net income of $78 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.53 were up 80% over the prior year.
And we generated $169 million in adjusted EBITDA our highest since the fourth quarter of 2006 and almost 25% higher than the second quarter of last year.
So let's move to our segment discussions and I'll start with Gypsum.
During the second quarter we saw a significant margin expansion and operating leverage with $20 million of improved adjusted operating profit to $97 million.
Adjusted operating margins improved by 270 basis points over last year to 15.7% due to a combination of improved volumes higher prices and lower costs plus we're seeing very solid growth in our non-wallboard surfaces and substrate divisions which I'll discuss in a moment.
Let me give you a little bit more detail regarding our U.S.
operations.
In our U.S.
wallboard division volumes for the second quarter were up 5% slightly above the industry and price was stable from our first quarter of this year.
We also continue to see lower costs which contributed $7 million in improved operating profit in the quarter.
Lower natural gas represented about half of that favorability with the other piece coming from a combination of our operational efficiency efforts or raw material costs including waste paper.
I'm very pleased to note that our surfaces and substrate divisions added $9 million of operating profit over last year across a broad platform of new and existing products including increased volumes and pricing in Fiberock and Securock roofing products plus improved volumes of joint compound coupled with better pricing and lower costs due to efficiencies.
I'd also like to highlight that we're providing new incremental disclosures on our surfaces and substrates division starting this quarter so you can better see the value that these businesses drive.
Specifically we will now quantify their sales volumes and their relative EBITDA contributions.
As you can see in our slide presentation surfaces and substrates is a substantial part of our portfolio with about 47% of U.S.
Gypsum's revenues.
They had strong top line growth of 8% to generate $207 million in sales during the quarter and they represent approximately 30% of the EBITDA generated by the U.S.
Gypsum company or about $35 million.
The margins on surfaces and substrates are a bit lower than wallboard but they are really fairly stable over the cycle.
So I'm pleased with how these businesses are performing and their potential for the future.
Moving to Ceilings.
Our operating margins for the second quarter expanded by 60 basis points to over 19% generating $25 million of adjusted operating profit.
During the quarter we continued to see some mix shift to higher margin products with premium tile products now representing roughly a third of our tile portfolio.
Improved pricing was led by our tile products with the majority of the increase driven by mix shift.
And as we just saw in the Gypsum segment lower natural gas cost combined with our continuing Lean Six Sigma efforts drove costs lower and expanded our margins.
Turning to Distribution L&amp;W earned $9 million in adjusted operating profit a $5 million improvement over the second quarter of last year.
We saw increased volumes in wallboard and our other core products and we were able to capitalize on those increased volumes this quarter.
Same-store sales were up 5% led by wallboard volumes of 7% and delivery costs on a percentage of sales basis were flat.
And as Jim said we certainly have more work to do but real progress is being made.
Moving to our last business segment our USG Boral JV adjusted operating profit for the total JV was $35 million up $12 million from a year ago with operating margins expanding to about 13.3%.
Please note that the 510 basis point improvement and operating margin is really closer to 290 basis points when you adjust for the roughly $6 million in facility damage costs incurred in last year's second quarter.
Even so that's really terrific growth.
USG's share of the JV's net income amounted to $13 million in the second quarter of this year a $7 million improvement.
Almost all of which was driven by the JV's strong operational improvements that Jim mentioned earlier.
Regarding dividends from the JV we did receive our first dividend from the JV in May amounting to $18 million.
This is the first of many dividends that we expect to get as we are targeting to pay out at least 50% of the JV's earnings going forward.
As I said in the past the JV is expected to be completely self funding including capital needs and the potential earn-out payments to Boral.
So as of now the dividends are being held overseas to fund the expected earn-out payments to Boral.
I'll shift gears and now share a few thoughts on our financial outlook for the year.
On the SG&amp;A front last quarter I said that we were scaling back our SG&amp;A spending for 2015 by at least $20 million to $325 million for the full year.
This quarter I can reiterate that we are fully committed to meeting or beating the $325 million target for the year.
Regarding the second quarter total SG&amp;A spend was in line with our expectations at $79 million.
As I mentioned on our last call the spending pattern for this year is expected to be different than last year with slightly higher spend in the second and third quarters with significantly less spend in the fourth quarter.
Regarding taxes I want to reiterate that based on our forecasted profitability in the U.S.
we are still projecting that we will release nearly all our portion of our $1 billion domestic valuation allowance by the end of 2015.
And in fact we may see a portion of that release coming as early as next quarter.
Again this is actually very good news as it's based on positive earnings growth.
As a reminder when we release all or a portion of our valuation allowance we'll realize a massive non-cash income tax benefit connected with the reversal of the reserves.
And then beginning in 2016 we'll start to record income tax expense on the P&amp;L for substantially all of our U.S.
earnings.
But what's really important here is that we will not let me repeat we will not pay cash taxes until we fully utilize our $1.9 billion of net operating losses and other carryover benefits.
So simply put this does not impact cash only the P&amp;L.
From an income tax expense standpoint we anticipate our annual global effective tax rate will be between 29% and 31%.
There will also be no impact to the results of USG Boral which are recorded net of tax.
And there is no new impact to Canada and Mexico as we already record tax expense on those countries.
For the remainder of 2015 and until we release the valuation allowance expect that our tax expense to amount to roughly $2 million a quarter.
Let me address foreign exchange exposure as well.
Across the whole USG portfolio including USG Boral FX headwinds amounted to about $7 million for the quarter and about $12 million on a year-to-date basis.
About half of the $12 million is for Canada and the remaining half is split equally between Mexico and the JV.
Looking at the back half or the second half of this year we think there is additional exposure of about $3 million to $5 million assuming rates stay stable for the balance of the year and taking into consideration the hedges that we already have in place.
A final point on outlook we are absolutely committed to organically delevering our balance sheet.
We have some upcoming debt payments and in particular our $500 million bullet that is due in November of next year which is clearly in our sites.
We have additional debt that we will also pay down as we march towards our leverage target of 1.5 times to 2 times debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
And with that I'll turn things back to Jim.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we go into Q&amp;A I'd like to briefly discuss what we see in our end markets and share some of our insights of what we expect for the balance of this year and going forward.
Let me start out with new residential and probably a lot of this isn't new news to you I think we're looking at the same numbers.
But our forecast is for the year 1.1 million starts.
As you know some of the low seasonally adjusted starts earlier in the year were skewed by weather but we do see positive signs.
We see demand increasing for first-time homebuyers which has been really a key area with first-time homebuyers increasing to over 30% 32% of sales and that's up from 27% a year ago.
We're also seeing strong job growth which has helped return homebuilder confidence to the highest levels in nearly a decade.
Now in new commercial we're expecting mid to single digit growth for 2015 with USG's primary sectors of growth would be education which is the largest sector under the commercial umbrella followed by office and retail.
Another encouraging sign that we saw yesterday and many of you probably did is the ABI reading that hit its highest level since mid-2007 which is another encouraging sign that commercial is starting to show some life.
We're well below historical levels in commercial but we feel that we're in the early stages of recovery and this is very important sector in our business.
Repair and remodel which to remind you is about 50% of USG's business and we see continued growth in 2015 and beyond.
Existing home sales drives R&amp;R spending as buyers typically remodel their homes of first 12 months to 24 months after a purchase and our products typically are involved in that remodel project.
In addition commercial repair and remodel employment levels continue to improve as you've all seen.
And one really important thing that we're starting to see is office vacancy rates have dropped to 13.5% which is actually the lowest level since 2008.
So all in both residential and commercial repair and remodel we expect low to mid single digit growth in 2015.
With USG Boral – and Matt touched on the great progress we're making there and we're very enthusiastic about that partnership.
We're forecasting mid to high single digit growth and we expect continued margin expansion.
As I mentioned earlier the value proposition of our NextGen plasterboard relative to standard board has been a key part of this growth and improving our margins but also level setting all those manufacturing plants with the USG manufacturing way has really helped USG Boral lower manufacturing costs as well.
As commercial buildings in that part of the world are being designed more and more with western construction practices the demand for USG Boral products including the adjacent products that are very very important ceiling tile grid and Fiberock are going to add to that growth.
So all in all we're very optimistic about the year.
I think we've had a really good quarter.
We're excited about the opportunities that we've shared with you today.
And with that I'd like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone.
And congratulations on a very strong quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Bob.
I just wanted to ask you I haven't heard you this enthusiastic I don't remember.
And thanks for the color on the end market demand that's really helpful.
Can you help me understand how you see among your three businesses the recovery like engaging each of those businesses.
And I'm just trying to understand from your perspective what are you most excited about right now in the portfolio? And how do you think the recovery unfolds? Does the Gypsum business engage first followed by L&amp;W? How should we thinking about the trajectory of that? Thanks very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Bob.
Thank you.
Yes actually I'm very excited.
You look at the quarter we had it's the best quarter since 2006 which we basically had 1.6 million housing starts and that was a whole different environment.
I think one of the keys has been lowering the breakeven and all the cost reduction and hard work that this organization has done over the last few years that just shows the amount of leverage we have.
Actually what I'm most excited about is seeing commercial coming back.
We've taken the term choppy out.
We've used that term choppy.
Commercial is very very important for L&amp;W Supply.
We've repositioned L&amp;W; as I said we aren't where we need to be but we're making progress.
It's very important for our Ceilings business and quite frankly it's important for our Gypsum wallboard business.
So that's been the lagging factor.
If you look at commercial I talked about ABI consumer confidence is up 17% year-on-year and vacancy rates which I think are very very important.
One other thing we're seeing in commercial if you look around the high-rise construction a lot of the high-rise construction today falls in the residential numbers but they're mostly rentals or high-rise rentals which L&amp;W plays a key part in with steel studs commercial insulation and commercial products.
Now on the other side of that there's not ceilings in those high-rise rentals.
So you have to kind of look at those high-rise residential units almost like a commercial unit.
So all-in-all I'm really excited about seeing some life in commercial.
It has a big impact on our businesses.
And we think residential is going to continue to grow.
So we're going to continue to take costs out introduce new products and hopefully deliver the results that we've done this quarter as we go forward.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on the strong quarter.
Based on the hedges you guys have in place do you expect to see a comparable amount of benefit from lower natural gas? And with waste paper prices rising do you expect incrementals you've seen in Gypsum in 2Q to be sustainable in the back half? Hey Phil.
It's Matt Hilzinger.
Why don't I take that.
As Jim said we continue to do everything we can to lower the breakeven.
And we saw some good cost momentum in the first quarter.
I think in the Gypsum business we saved like $2 million year-over-year and now in this quarter it's about $7 million.
And I would split half of that in natural gas.
I'd put a little bit in – some benefits that we've gotten around raw materials and then I think we're getting the efficiencies.
If you think about 20% fixed cost and 15% conversion we're going to leverage somewhere between 30% and 35% as volume goes through and all the cost efficiencies that were going.
So in the second half of the year what I would think is look we're going to continue to get some leverage on the fixed costs and get our improvements.
I think we're going to have some tailwinds on natural gas not as big as we saw in the first half.
This quarter in particular we benefited from kind of a very low spot rate.
So 25% of our natural gas was unhedged.
We took advantage of a very low spot rate.
That's moved up from about $2.30 to about $2.80 to $2.90.
I think we'll still get a little bit of a tailwind in the second half but we're still seeing some inflation.
We're seeing inflation in synthetic gypsum we're seeing inflation in labor.
We've had that and we're seeing some inflation in some of our special ingredients.
So all in all what I would think about as you think about the second half is I think you'd probably see costs maybe go up a little bit in the second half compared to last year maybe flat best case.
But I think there are some good tailwinds and look we're doing everything we possibly can in this company to manage costs.
And so that's what we're trying to do.
Very helpful.
Can you just provide some color on how the hedges are set up in the back half and going into next year? Yeah.
Very similar to the way they were set up in the first half.
Se we're about 75% hedged.
So our all-in hedged price right now is around $3.80.
If we continue to have spot prices of call it $2.80 $2.90 I think that will translate into maybe $1 million to $2 million a quarter on natural gas benefit.
So not quite as much as we saw this quarter but I think we'll get a little bit of a benefit.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Very helpful.
Yep.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Congratulations.
Just a question on surfaces and substrates and you're offering bit more disclosure on that and we appreciate it.
It looks like you did 60% incremental margins in that business this quarter.
Recognized that over the course of the cycle it's less volatile from a margin standpoint relative to wallboard but that 60% figure is pretty impressive you called out a couple of items that contributed to the profit growth.
But I'm just wondering as we're starting to see that business inflect is there any sort of additional guidance you could point us towards incremental margins in that business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We really appreciate the – looking at the U.S.
Gypsum business in a different way and that's one reason Garik that we wanted to unpack that a little bit for you.
And one of the key areas is we have competitive situations that we want to keep proprietary.
These are industry leading products.
We have loyalty from our applicators.
We have a very strong market share.
Most of those products have a market share that's 2x over wallboard and as you say less volatile margins.
So we're going to crawl before we walk there.
We wanted to open up the envelope a little bit so you can understand the Gypsum margins.
I think sometimes U.S.
Gypsum gets compared to other companies that don't have these products.
And I think the key here is you have strong market share loyal brands and the volatility of the margins.
If you go back to three years or four years ago they were rock stars in the portfolio because Gypsum margins were lower.
So you can go back 15 years or 20 years and those margins really stay relatively in a small span.
So we want to give you this first round and we just want to make sure that things that we provide aren't proprietary – that we want to keep proprietary that give us a competitive advantage in the market.
Okay.
There's nothing in that business that would suggest a breakout form the kind of the historical margin standard deviation though? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
The surfaces business is – that is joint treatment that's the green lid – we're continuing to expand.
We've probably introduced more new products in surfaces and substrates in the last year which we really don't talk about.
A lot of line extensions.
It's really taking costs out.
These are very – for example joint treatment are very regional products.
So if you're in the desert you have to have a different formula than if you're along the coast.
So we're always expanding the formula.
Breakout products and really the area that I'm most excited about is substrates.
It's a growth business.
The commercial roof deck business our market share is fairly low but we've been growing at double-digit rates.
And when you look at the amount of commercial roofs that need to be repaired and replaced the average age of a commercial building is 40 years old.
So if you say breakout I mean that substrates group is really an exciting group of – when we talk about surfaces and substrates that we're continuing to introduce new products.
The one that I talked about it with Tremco is very early.
We don't know how big that's going to be but that could be something that gets attention.
So joint treatment very stable growth leading market share is continuing new products but substrates is a part of it that – I don't know if I'm going to call it breakout but it's a very exciting growth initiative in the U.S.
Gypsum segment.
And Jim let me add.
This is Matt.
If you look at the $9 million that came through on surfaces and substrates about half of that was volume and the other half was split equally between kind of price increases that we've gotten and efficiency so we've reduced costs.
So we've expanded margins in that business but we're also getting very good volume.
As I said we've gotten about 8% top-line growth.
So...
Great.
Thanks for that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
Nice job on the cost side.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Tim.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I guess just a question on Gypsum volumes.
Some other people in the industry have talked about a little bit of impact on the commercial construction side that may have delayed some construction activity timelines.
I'm just curious if that's something that you guys saw in any sort of regions across the country? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Obviously Texas Houston got a ton of rain and that's slowed up a lot of commercial buildings in that Texas Oklahoma areas so absolutely.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And I guess is there any way to think about – does that kind of help in as you get into the back half of the year? Is that kind of something that winds up kind of shifting demand a little bit in the 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Our projections for the year really haven't changed.
I think it's just – it may be a quarter shift here and there but things get delayed and it will be just a little bit of catch-up in the quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
On L&amp;W you cited the flat delivery cost as percentage of sales I'm just wondering if you can comment on what you could do further and improve that margin profile and whether or not there has been any products folded into that segment recently to help accelerate the growth.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mike this is Jim.
From your question on the products L&amp;W we really focus on seven core products.
We aren't really big in lumber.
That's why we don't play in the resi side.
Steel studs commercial insulation largest distributor of ceiling tile and grid in the country.
So we want to be the best at the seven core products.
So no nothing gets folded in I mean fasteners and things of that nature but the seven core products are something we want to stay very focused on.
On delivery that is a real focus area for us.
We have really three areas; we're looking at logistics we're looking at inventory and we're looking at branch rationalization.
So on the logistics it's things like truck turnaround loading trucks faster safer.
So that's all the key to how long it takes us to – can we get an extra turn-in.
If you get an extra turn-in at a branch that really helps the profitability.
So we are all over that.
We have a Lean Six Sigma team that's focused on that and that's really key to the profitability of how efficient and safely that you can deliver products.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is actually Matt Bouley on for Mike.
Thank you for taking my question.
Just going back to the non-res environment just given some of that improving data and thinking about your $325 million SG&amp;A target for the year what would happen to SG&amp;A if you did see an acceleration in volumes in the second half? And how would you think about potentially adding shifts or capacity in that environment? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're very focused on SG&amp;A and as Matt said we expect to hit that $325 million regardless of where volume comes.
That's the key that's why we have leverage and we're delivering the same earnings that we did in 2006 and any type of volume increase we do not expect SG&amp;A.
I'll turn over to Matt he can talk about our philosophy on shifts.
Yeah.
Matt.
Any shifts that we might add actually go through cost of the sales.
They aren't going to run through SG&amp;A and quite frankly we've got very strong – we've got a lot of capacity right now.
Our effective capacity is running around 79% almost 80% a little stronger in some parts of the country little less in others.
We typically will run that up to over 90% and then maybe add a shift.
And one of the things that we're very focused on is through Lean Six Sigma what we're doing in the manufacturing environment is when we bring a shift back one we know that it's durable demand but two we're doing things to drive efficiency.
So we just – we don't want to bring a lot of people on and then at some point have to maybe let them go if demand is not there.
So on the SG&amp;A target as Jim said we are laser-focused on our costs and in the plants we've got plenty of capacity to meet demand should something spike up in the second half or either next year.
So I feel very good about where we are in costs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And just to follow up on the adding a shift just so everyone – we are adding some capacity in Southern California.
And this is high-end specialty products that we had to ship from Texas.
So this is a something that it's our glass-mat product it's something that product that is high margin high demand in that part of the world and we took a very focused approach about putting a specialty product in that part of the world.
So if you hear about that that is what we are doing in our Plaster City California plant.
And just add on to that that glass-mat panel is the green stuff it's the green panels that you see when you're driving around not the yellow stuff yellow is bad green is good.
Got it.
Thank you and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much guys.
Yeah I guess first question I just wanted to sort of clean up on the nat gas and the hedging.
Obviously you've sort of laid out what you thought it might be for the next couple of quarters but if I'm not mistaken I mean if nat gas sort of stays where we are I mean would it be your expectation that you'd see a pretty meaningful benefit in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Stephen how are you? Inc.</span></strong> Doing great.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good.
Look we have not provided guidance on 2016 but I think directionally you're correct.
I mean I think if prices stay low we would end up with some kind of tailwind in 2016.
I think it's too early to get into exactly what that would be but clearly I think there is some opportunity to get some tailwind there but we're also seeing some inflation right? So that would help offset whatever inflation we might see on the labor on the synthetic Gypsum side.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Great.
And then secondly with respect to the 2Q...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen excuse me.
This...
Inc.</span></strong> That's right forgot it.
One question my apologies.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's okay.
We have a few people in queue.
So I apologize.
Inc.</span></strong> No it's fine.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dennis McGill from Zelman &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks guys.
Matt I guess just one question I had with respect to how to interpret the same-store sales trends within the Distribution business.
It sounds like that the data you guys were seeing on the non-res you're comfortable that that's accelerating and I know that's got a tilt towards non-res but your same-store sales went from 10% last quarter to 5% this quarter.
Is there something unique in the comparisons or anything that you're seeing in the business that would kind of explain that variance and then maybe if you see some acceleration coming in the second half of the year there? No.
The way I would think about it and I hate to drag 2014 into the conservation but I think you got to go back to 2014.
In 2014 the first quarter was really pretty light right.
So we had – if you fast forward to the first quarter of this year wallboard volumes were up close to 10%.
And I think part of that I think if you go back what we said was part of that volume increase that we saw in the first quarter was in part due to the weather and the polar vortex that we saw in 2014.
So I think when you think about going from 10% to 5% on wallboard volumes and you think about the comp store sales I think they kind of flow together.
And so I think part of this is weaker first quarter last year against this year stronger second quarter against our second quarter this year.
And so I go back to what Jim said in terms of the guidance for the balance of the year housing starts up between 1 million and 1.2 million.
I think we're in the midpoint there about 1.1 million mid single on commercial and low to mid on residential.
I think if you blend all that together you're kind of in the mid-single digit on volume growth.
And I think L&amp;W is getting a benefit from the high-rise resi that Jim called out right? I mean if you take a look at the housing starts almost all of that is coming from high-rise resi.
So we're encouraged about what we see going on out there and we're encouraged about where L&amp;W is but we don't see any anomaly that we think would shift the trend from what we've seen in L&amp;W for the second quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Trey Grooms from Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Trey.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Jim I think on the last call you mentioned and you were talking about kind of the timing of the pricing around wallboard and I think that you said that the current pricing put in place in January this year is good through October which was a change.
Is that still the expectation there on kind of your thoughts around the timing? And any kind of thoughts you can give us behind that change would be great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Trey.
That's exactly what we're talking about.
We did move our price for this year our 2015 wallboard price it's not to exceed is effective through October 31 so the end of October.
And as we get – so to answer your question we have not changed our philosophy on that.
As we get closer we're going to look at demand and inflation and everything we typically have done for actually the last five years to determine whether or not to exceed price will be for November 1.
So those are the factors that influence our pricing decision.
So we're still on that course.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just kind of the thoughts behind that change from going from October to I guess November 1 – excuse me January to November? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> One of the big changes is the pre-buys caused a lot of angst with our customers.
And in our conversations with our customers we floated the idea of moving the price into an area where it's the busier time in the season and it would minimize if not eliminate some of the pre-buys that our customers really either participated in or it had a negative impact on their business so that was the main reason of our discussion with our customers on pre-buy.
Inc.</span></strong> I see.
Makes sense.
Thanks a lot Jim.
Good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you Trey.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kathryn Thompson from Thompson Research Group.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions today.
Pulling the string a little bit more on the non-res cycle for your U.S.
interiors business the ceilings business what were volumes contribution to the top line in the quarter? And then shifting a little bit to look at your L&amp;W division could you give some clarity for what were sales volumes for steel studs specifically? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The tile volume? Kathryn could you repeat the question on the tile volume I wasn't – your connection wasn't really good sorry.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
What were volumes for your ceiling tiles for your U.S.
interiors business in the quarter? And then similarly for your L&amp;W division are you able to break out what your steel studs sales volumes were in that division or at least what your overall revenue growth was for steel studs and for L&amp;W? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
On the ceiling tile for the quarter we were up over the second quarter of last year; volumes were up.
If you take out the second quarter of 2014 it was the strongest quarter we've had since the third quarter of 2013.
So it was a – from a ceiling tile we don't break that out Kathryn the number but the volume was up.
On steel studs for L&amp;W we do not break that out we don't disclose that but the volume was up with steel studs at L&amp;W.
In fact if you look at complementary products I talked about the seven core products.
Most of those products are trending the right way.
And steel studs and I think you're heading in the direction on non-resi.
Steel studs are a leading indicator of what's happening with non-res or the multi-family high rise and we really watch that steel stud number but we don't break that out.
But you wouldn't – it's our assumption that you wouldn't perform materially different than what industry checks that we may have? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm not sure what your industry checks would say.
Okay.
Great.
We're seeing mid to high single digit volumes but understand that you can't be specific about volumes.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
It's good to hear your ceilings volume's up.
To the last question sales in total were really only up like $1 million and grid and tile volume has showed it's not a contributor to operating profits.
Can you help me kind of reconcile maybe give us a feel of how much the ceiling tiles were up? Yeah.
As Jim said we don't give specific – this is Matt Hilzinger.
So we don't give specific information on ceiling tiles but they were up and grid was down a little bit that's how I would think about it.
So I think part of this is we've seen – Jim talked a little bit about the repair and remodel side doing pretty well.
So we don't give specifics on that but I think if you stand back we feel very good about how the ceilings business performed in the second quarter.
Volumes were up on tiles grid was down a little bit.
We did get a little bit of price improvement but we've also been able to see – and this is a continued theme that we've had in the business is a mix shift to the higher end tiles.
And I think we're seeing more and more of that with lead certification points and noise reduction requirements in commercial buildings.
We're continuing to see that mix move to the higher-end products.
So overall we feel very good about where the ceilings business is.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Just to follow up on Matt's on the high-end premium if you look at our overall ceiling tile volume that – those high end premium products continue to grow as a percentage of sales and they're now over a third of our tile volume which is these high-end tiles that Matt's indicating.
So we're seeing a growing trend and when you're getting to a product that's one-third of your line that's a really positive impact for the business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
One thing that's been obviously happening is multi-family has been stronger than single-family and recent indications are that that might continue.
I'm curious as you look through your products how does that affect you? And are there any competitive differences for instance in the Gypsum business or maybe you're stronger in multi-family relative to competition than you would be in single-family or vice versa? Any color that these trends in the strengthen in multi-family might be having vis-à-vis your performance? That'd be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mark I'm really glad you asked that question because that falls right into our wheelhouse.
Multi-family when you think of multi-family now it's not the apartment complex in the suburbs as I said earlier it's the 25-storey to 40-storey high-rise rental typically rental not a condo and I think condos sales just came out starting to show some life.
So these are high-rise rental units that are really commercial products.
These are commercial distributors stocking them i.e.
L&amp;W.
They have steel studs which we distribute.
You have to have high-end products like USG UltraLight because labor rates – in a multi-family construction commercial contractors are installing that.
So the labor rates for example in Chicago can be anywhere between $70 an hour and $75 an hour; New York City it's $100.
So our products with having UltraLight being lighter and easier to install fall right into that wheelhouse.
On ceiling tiles ceiling tile doesn't have a big impact there because you don't have a lot of acoustical drop ceilings in rental units maybe in the lobby.
But this multi-family is really positive for L&amp;W Supply because a competitive advantage is this there are very few competitors of distribution that can safely put products in high-rise buildings where if you're doing a single-family home you may have 15 competitors or 20 competitors.
When you're doing a high rise you may have five competitors.
And so you really have to have a unique value proposition.
So this falls right into our strengths as I mentioned our new product with Tremco which focuses on the exterior of a commercial multi-family or a commercial office building.
So that brings a bigger share of wallet for us.
Our Securock roof deck as I said earlier that would be on the roof.
So if you think about USG Corporation we're not only in the interior now we're in the exterior of hat high-rise and by the way we deliver the products that get it there safely.
Inc.</span></strong> And are you able to track if you've been able to maintain this competitive edge or are you finding that other competitors seeing the trends are going after the more multi-flash commercial opportunities more aggressively? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mark we don't have a competitor that has the full value from manufacturing to the job site.
So if you think about the value proposition we have in – when we make the product we introduce new products.
We've introduced over 22 new products in the last year some of those we don't talk a lot about but our innovation is second to none.
We are the only manufacturer that also has distribution and I know there's been a lot of questions about L&amp;W but you can see the trends are getting better we aren't there yet.
So yeah we track it a lot.
Competition is very fierce out there.
There's a lot of different ways to get to these jobs but we feel from innovation all the way to invoice we put it in the job safely.
So I like to say we have a unique value proposition that our investors like.
Inc.</span></strong> Terrific.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Barrett from C.L.
King &amp; Associates.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Jim.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Jim one of your initial initiatives as the CEO was to go into the Boral joint venture.
That seems to be working out very very well.
Can you tell us whether in the event down the road in the future Boral was to exit – wish to exit their half of the joint venture where the USG has the right of first refusal? And could you tell us if that's true broadly what the terms might be? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes that's true and I'd love to have that opportunity.
All right...
Inc.</span></strong> Is there a set formula? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No there is not.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And Jim we appreciate your support over the years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
We have time for one other question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from James Armstrong from Vertical Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
My question is on the wallboard.
You talked more about the specialty products opening.
How much of the portfolio in wallboard is now from those specialty products? And could you talk a little bit about margin and growth prospects in the specialty business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If you look at UltraLight and that's a – we wouldn't view that as a specialty product but that's a new product.
For half-inch it is now almost two-thirds of the volume.
The customers view the value proposition of UltraLight so we do get a price premium on that so the margin is better.
Securock is continuing to grow margins are very strong but what's great about Securock is the growth.
The growth is 2x of what you're seeing in regular wallboard growth and that's why it's really important for us to put products in the market as Matt said that are green.
And that will continue to add to the profitability.
But we don't break that out.
We're going to continue to break out surfaces and substrates as a whole but your are getting growth at higher margin similar what you're seeing on the Ceilings side with the high end premium product.
So that's why it's still important we have the innovation to come out with these higher performance products that have higher growth but more importantly have higher margins.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
I really appreciate all the questions.
And as you can probably hear from Matt and myself we're really pleased with the quarter but more importantly we're very excited about the rest of the year and the future.
As you said we saw that in the second quarter we expanded margins in all of our businesses.
We introduced some new products that help our customers grow and the USG Boral continues to help us win in a growth area in Asia and Australasia.
But I want to let everyone know we aren't content just to ride the wave of demand getting better.
And as we've said over the years we want to continue to create our own recovery which is – and we talked a little bit about it today is focused on cost reductions and we're doing that through Lean Six Sigma and advanced manufacturing.
With product innovation we're going to continue to deliver product extensions.
I said we introduced 15 new products to 20 new products but we also have some big ideas that we have in the pipeline that we hope to share with you soon but most importantly having our customers top of mind every single day.
We're very focused on customer satisfaction and really delighting our customers.
So we're going to continue to strengthen diversify and differentiate.
And we really appreciate your interest in USG today and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday August 6.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.