Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 USG Corporation Earnings Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Ryan Flanagan.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to USG Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call and live webcast.
We will be using a slide presentation in conjunction with our call today.
It is available by going to the Investor Information section of our website www.usg.com and clicking on the link to the webcast.
Before we proceed let me remind you that certain statements in this conference call may be forward-looking statements under securities laws.
These statements are made on the basis of management's current views and assumption of our business market and other conditions and management undertakes no obligation to update these statements.
These statements are also subject to a number of factors including those listed at the end of the press release and actual results may be different from our current expectations.
In addition please refer to our earnings press release and presentation slides for disclosures and reconciliations on non-GAAP measures used when discussing our results and outlook.
With me today to discuss the third quarter are Jim Metcalf Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Matt Hilzinger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Jim will provide a general overview of the quarter plus additional insight into our businesses.
Matt will review the financial results for the corporation and the business segments.
We'll then open the call for questions and conclude with a few comments from Jim.
We'd like to ensure everyone has an opportunity to ask questions so as always when we get to the Q&amp;A callers are asked to limit themselves to just one question.
Jim? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ryan and good morning.
Before we dive into the details of the business I'd like to give you a brief perspective of the quarter the way we see it.
We had continued margin expansion in the Gypsum business with effective cost controls and pricing.
Our Surfaces and Substrates businesses continued to perform well as we talked about last quarter and drove increased profitability in the Gypsum segment.
In Ceilings our third quarter results are very similar to the second quarter performance but if you look at year-on-year results they are down compared to – it was a record quarter in 2014 so we had a tough comp.
We also saw margin improvement in L&amp;W Supply and we're seeing progress there with the operational improvement initiatives that are starting to pay off.
And USG Boral continues to grow and our margins continue to expand.
We also have the organization and I'd like to say controlling the controllables which means a relentless focus on operational costs and expenses.
In fact we're going to have lower SG&amp;A in 2015 compared to last year.
We also expect that trend to continue on expenses into next year with even lower SG&amp;A as we grow our business and we grow our margins.
And as we continue to focus on cost containment we're also going to invest in the business like our glass-mat board in Plaster City California and innovative new products that we continue to introduce into the market.
Now let's turn to the details of the quarter.
First in the Gypsum segment.
We're strengthening the core of our Gypsum business with margin expansion due to the performance of our Wallboard our Surfaces and Substrates businesses.
Wallboard pricing was generally in line with our expectation giving the demand environment.
Our Lean Six Sigma efforts have been instrumental in offsetting inflation in the business as well as improving our operational efficiencies.
Wallboard volume in the quarter was up 2% which was slightly higher than what the industry shipped but we had expected demand to be stronger.
Our Surfaces and Substrate businesses represent about half of the Gypsum segment.
We continue to grow that business.
Our efforts to differentiate through innovation are one of the reasons that this business has been so successful.
We've already introduced 25 new products this year and many of those are in the Surfaces and Substrates groups.
This is the fourth quarter in the row the business has contributed over $5 million in improved profit and we're excited about the new areas of the building particularly the commercial building where USG can grow with these new products.
One other point related to the Gypsum business.
Our Wallboard pricing has been in effect in 2015 and as you know is good through the end of October.
As we looked at projected third quarter demand a year ago we thought it was going to be much stronger at this time.
In reviewing the changes to near-term Wallboard demand and market dynamics we will extend our current pricing beyond October 31.
Demand is one of the most important drivers of pricing in this phase of the cycle.
The effective date of our next increase will greatly depend on demand but we're also going to look at import costs and market factors that will enter into our thinking.
It's always been our policy we don't provide details on prospective pricing but we do expect to implement a price increase in all of our product categories next year including Wallboard.
Now turning to Ceilings.
I'm going to put a little context on our Ceilings results for this quarter.
As I mentioned a few minutes ago the third quarter of last year was the strongest quarter in the history of the Ceilings business with margins of almost 22%.
2014 was still the year of choppy commercial and the third quarter of 2014 was on the positive side of that market demand.
If you look at our business now Tile and Grid volumes excuse me were off but our margins were almost 19% which is very similar to the second quarter this year.
In fact if you look at volume which we follow very closely in Ceilings and Grid volume was up 3.5% and 2.5% respectively in Tile and Grid versus the second quarter.
And on a year-to-date basis we've also seen solid margin expansion in our U.S.
Ceilings business.
We truly believe that a mix shift towards the premium high-margin tile is sustainable and now we're well-positioned to grow in this category.
Our Ceilings business is extremely healthy.
Turning to L&amp;W Supply we doubled our operating margins in the third quarter.
Comp store sales increased 5% with improved volume aided by the strength in steel frame multifamily residential construction.
Multifamily is now approximately 37% of all starts with a large percentage of those buildings being urban high-rise apartment and condos.
These buildings have the same product characteristics as a commercial job but they do have minimal ceilings opportunity but this provides an opportunity for L&amp;W Supply.
At L&amp;W the operational improvement initiatives that we've been implementing are starting to get some traction.
We're focused on some key areas: inventory management our truck utilization further centralizing our back-office functions and overall cost control.
As I mentioned in the last call we're making some progress at L&amp;W but we still have work to do.
We are optimistic on the future.
With revenue approaching $1.5 billion in L&amp;W continuing to expand our margins is a significant opportunity for us at USG.
Now I'd like to turn to USG Boral.
USG Boral truly diversifies the earnings of our portfolio and operating margins expanded once again despite headwinds from foreign currency.
The performance in Australia Korea Thailand and Indonesia were primary drivers of our results in the quarter and our price premium on NextGen plasterboard which is the UltraLight product in that part of the world is now over 5%.
Wallboard volume was down slightly in the quarter in the region particularly due to some of the regional macroeconomic wins that we see coming out of China.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Matt and he is going to go into some more details on the quarter.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll kick things off by walking through our third quarter consolidated results.
In terms of our adjusted results let me remind you that we had several adjustments impacting last year's third quarter.
Among them the litigation settlement charge asset impairment charges and the sales and profits from GTL our shipping operation that we exited earlier this year.
So with that context for our third quarter our adjusted net sales grew 2% to $972 million.
Adjusted operating profit improved $8 million to $115 million.
Adjusted net income increased by almost 25% to $76 million and we earned $164 million in EBITDA.
What's important to note is that our underlying performance was actually better than that because of the negative effect of foreign exchange on our P&amp;L specifically the appreciation of the U.S.
dollar across other currencies.
For the quarter our revenue of $972 million was depressed by $26 million because of foreign currency valuations and we took an $8 million hit to our net income this quarter.
And while we do foreign exchange hedging where it makes sense operationally it's very difficult to escape the impact of a rising U.S.
dollar across other currencies.
So with that let's now dive into segment results.
In the Gypsum segment adjusted net sales for the third quarter were $610 million compared to $601 million last year and adjusted operating profit increased $4 million to $89 million for the quarter.
Our higher operating profit on wallboard was driven by three principal factors: improved pricing lower product costs and higher volumes albeit softer than expected at 2%.
The improved operational performance was somewhat offset by an expected uptick in SG&amp;A for the quarter and foreign exchange headwinds which amounted to a $4 million drag on operating profit in the Gypsum segment alone.
On the SG&amp;A front as I've said on the past two calls we will spend less this year than we did last year.
I've also said that we expect SG&amp;A to be higher this quarter than last year due to timing of projects and spending and it was.
But most importantly and I'll touch on this again later on in my remarks we expect SG&amp;A to be down significantly from last year's fourth quarter spend as we will beat our $325 million annual SG&amp;A guidance.
So the uptick in SG&amp;A doesn't represent a structural shift.
It's timing and it was consistent with our plan and our expectations.
Looking at our Wallboard costs they were better than last year primarily driven by the tailwinds of lower natural gas costs which was about $2 million for the quarter.
We continue to see inflation in manufacturing wages synthetic gypsum costs and paper and raw material costs but we successfully offset these headwinds by manufacturing efficiencies and other benefits this quarter.
Our Surfaces and Substrates division is included in our Gypsum segment and it accounts for nearly half its sales.
Surfaces and Substrates had another very strong quarter with revenue growth of 8% and $6 million of additional profit.
The growth in this division is being driven by a combination of new product introductions innovations within existing products and growing architectural and contractor acceptance.
A great example of this is to look at a relatively new product that we've introduced into the roofing market.
It's a cement-based panel marketed as USG Structural Panel used primarily in mid- to high-rise residential and a broad variety of commercial roofing applications.
We're seeing strong acceptance of this product into a roofing market that is really new to USG and one that we really haven't served before.
Frankly our market penetration is growing because our structural roof panels increase the speed of construction they are non-combustible they are more cost-effective than other alternatives and there are a greener more sustainable construction solution.
This is just another example of great innovation at USG that's driving the bottom line.
And while it's products like our roof deck panels coupled with joint treatment Durock and other Securock products that drove our results we also saw contributions from Fiberock and our other industrial products as well this quarter.
I'm very pleased that we continue to see margin expansion and positive volume trends in our Surfaces and Substrates division.
Moving to Ceilings net sales were $130 million for the quarter down from $137 million last year.
Setting aside the record-setting quarter that we are comping from last year we earned $24 million in adjusted operating profit.
And although Ceilings' operating margins of 18.5% this quarter was lower than a year ago it's slightly ahead of last year on a year-to-date basis.
On the volume front our read on the market is that we maintained our share and remember last year's third quarter demand levels were very strong in part due to some demand that was pushed all the way out from the third quarter from the harsh winter of 2014.
This year the demand levels have been much more balanced quarter to quarter.
If you look at the volumes on a year-to-date basis Tile and Grid volume were up slightly over last year even though overall demand levels were softer this quarter.
Pricing was down on Grid and less so for Tile.
The mix of Grid products we sold during the quarter impacted pricing.
Regarding Tile pricing we did see the proportion of high-performance higher-margin tiles increase in our mix of products sold this quarter a trend that we've been seeing over the past couple of years albeit against a modest pricing pressure across the whole Ceiling landscape.
On the cost side we saw the positive tailwinds of natural gas and steel.
But they were more than offset by inflationary increases in labor maintenance and other input costs.
Moving to Distribution we made $9 million in adjusted operating profit this quarter and we saw operating margins expand 130 basis points to 2.4% from a year ago.
Higher volumes including deliveries into multifamily starts and the operational initiatives Jim mentioned earlier were the primary drivers of the improvement this quarter.
Just a quick comment on multifamily and L&amp;W.
Clearly we're seeing a lot more multifamily being built which is benefiting L&amp;W.
Constructing a steel frame multifamily complex is not that different than commercial construction albeit with much less ceiling opportunity for Tile and Grid.
So while L&amp;W is levered two-thirds to the commercial construction sectors the improving multifamily environment is proving very beneficial to L&amp;W.
Turning to the USG Boral JV our 50% portion of net income was $12 million for the quarter flat with last year.
But if you look at the results on a constant currency basis by taking foreign exchange out of the equation revenues increased by 2% to $292 million EBITDA increased by 20% to $52 million and we earned $15 million of net income a $3 million improvement over last year.
We continue to grow and increase profitability in this part of the world by focusing on our NextGen footprint growing our adjacent products and lowering our costs.
For example during this quarter we increased the conversion from standard Wallboard to NextGen lightweight board by almost 200 basis points from last quarter and it commands a higher price.
In fact Wallboard price is up in almost every single country in which USG Boral operates.
We also saw increased sell-through of adjacent products notably ready-mix compounds which were up 20% and we lowered our cost with manufacturing efficiencies combined with nice tailwinds in gypsum energy and metal costs.
On the flip side board volumes as Jim had mentioned were down 1% primarily driven to some slowing in China and a little bit in Thailand and Indonesia.
It's still too early to tell but it's possible that this slowdown in certain pockets of Asia could continue to drive some deceleration of growth going forward.
But with that said I still see absolute revenue growth in the mid-single digits.
Now let's move to our financial outlook for the year.
In terms of SG&amp;A we will beat our $325 million annual SG&amp;A guidance this year.
So doing the math that means that we'd expect consolidated SG&amp;A to come in below $88 million for the fourth quarter and that year-over-year benefit will flow through corporate as well as the business segments all in the fourth quarter.
Regarding taxes we will likely release nearly all of our $1 billion domestic valuation allowance in the fourth quarter.
As I've said in the past this is actually very good news as it's based on positive earnings growth.
And a quick reminder on the financial impact of a valuation allowance release.
When we reduce the valuation allowance we'll record a significant non-cash income tax benefit.
And then going forward we'll start to record income tax expense on the P&amp;L for our profit generated in the United States.
But most important to remember is that we will not be a federal cash tax payer until we fully utilize our $1.9 billion of net operating losses and other carryover benefits.
So again this has a books tax impact not a cash tax impact.
And on a going-forward basis our cash tax payment should continue to hover around $2 million a quarter.
Moving to our outlook on foreign exchange or currency devaluation last quarter we saw that – I said that if rates stayed stable for the rest of the year we'd expect a $3 million to $5 million headwind for the balance of the year.
Unfortunately rates have clearly moved against the U.S.
dollar since then and now just for the fourth quarter alone we believe that we will be unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange to the tune of about $10 million.
And that's assuming that rates stay the same as of the end of September.
And that $10 million is split about equally between our Gypsum Ceiling and USG Boral businesses.
Just as a data point on a year-to-date basis foreign exchange has amounted to a $20 million headwind to net income for USG through September.
A few quick words on the balance sheet and then I'll turn it back over to Jim.
As I've said previously we have set our eyes on the $500 million bullet that is due in November of next year.
After that we have a bit more debt to pay down to hit our leverage target of 1.5 times to 2 times debt to EBITDA at the mid-cycle.
All the while we continue to make internal investments to drive organic shareholder value.
One last thing as you saw in our press release last month we've reached an agreement in principle to sell our equity interest in our Knauf-USG JV for €48 million on a JV that generated $2 million in net income for USG in 2014.
The net proceeds from the sale are expected to be used to pay down debt.
And with that Jim I'll turn it back to you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Matt.
Before we go into Q&amp;A I'd like to briefly discuss our end markets and what we expect for the remainder of the year kind of building on some of the comments that Matt just gave you.
We're going to you a full 2016 view on our next call.
But again let me give some thoughts into next year as well.
If you look at new residential we're projecting housing starts this year to settle in around 1.1 million.
As everyone knows they came in at 1.2 million this week but as the numbers have been up and down really through the course of the year we are still encouraged by the data points that I think we're all seeing.
Homebuilder confidence has been at or above 60 with the latest report as everyone probably viewed was a 10-year high.
Household formation is up significantly after eight years below historical trends and homeownership continues to be at the lowest level in more than 20 years.
Now saying that in the short term we feel that we're going to see softer Wallboard volume that may continue into the fourth quarter.
Volumes in the fourth quarter could be impacted by less industry-wide surge buying than we've seen in the previous few years but we do expect 2015 volumes to be up in the range of 2% to 3% for the Wallboard business.
Turning to new commercial our expectation is the end of the year new commercial's going to be up in the 5% range.
ABI has bounced around a lot but it is showing positive trends.
Commercial project inquiries that we're seeing and design contracts for new jobs continue to grow.
Our customers are talking about nice backlogs and there is encouraging signs of further recovery in the new commercial business.
As a reminder our highest growth sectors are the education retail and office segments of commercial which have anywhere between a 9-month and 18-month lag for our products.
Turning to repair and remodel in commercial repair and remodel we still reiterate that we're going to see 3% to 5% growth.
It may be leaning more on the 3% range for 2015.
This is another area that we're seeing mixed macro data as of late.
Home prices continue to rise though.
As we know that's encouraging for residential repair and remodel but there has been a bit of a slowdown in pending home sales.
In commercial repair and remodel office vacancy rates continue to decline as employment improves which is obviously a positive sign for repair and remodel.
In fact where vacancy rates are now it's the lowest they've been since 2009.
In the USG Boral region Matt touched on some of the pending headwinds we see there the pace of growth at China.
But as a reminder the USG Boral business is not as we call it a China play.
We're in China but it's Australia Korea Indonesia and Thailand which are really the primary profit generators of our 12 regions in the USG Boral division.
All the projected GDP rates in our 12 regions at USG Boral including China are still projected to be at or above the U.S.
growth.
So we're still very optimistic about our business at USG Boral.
While it's possible that a prolonged slowdown may have some carryover effect it's still too early to quantify what type of headwind that's going to have on our growth.
But as Matt said we still feel that we're going to have the growth come through with the commitments we've made to our shareholders with USG Boral.
As we've done in our U.S.
businesses over the past years and we continue to do it we're going to have and do we have contingency plans at USG Boral if necessary.
But I'm confident we're going to continue to see the positive trends in this business.
Our key initiatives at USG Boral are realization of our additional cost synergies further conversion of standard plasterboard to NextGen and increased sell-through of Ceilings and joint compound products of which we're seeing some really early successes as Matt indicated.
Looking ahead to next year we're projecting 2016 market demand is going to be stronger than 2015.
In fact we're very optimistic about next year.
As I mentioned earlier we plan to implement price improvement in all of our product categories including Wallboard.
We project volume to be stronger in all of our businesses.
That's in our Ceilings business and all of our businesses we feel it's going to be stronger year-on-year.
Our plan is simple.
We want to grow our business and we want to lower our breakeven.
We're going to grow our business in some of the areas we've touched on: geographic growth with USG Boral; new products we're going to continue to put new products in our customers' hands as we've said that we have 25 new products that have been introduced.
Line extensions on the high-end; for example our high-end Ceilings line extensions as well as high-end Wallboard we're going to continue to extend those products.
And products as Matt indicated that are new to the industry and new to construction and we have some great new ideas in our pipeline coming out of our innovation center.
We're going to continue to lower our breakeven and we're going to lower our breakeven by focusing on our balance sheet with an eye to the $500 million coupon next year.
As we indicated we're going to continue to focus on lowering our SG&amp;A and grow our Lean Six Sigma operations to continue our excellent operational efficiencies at both our manufacturing and distribution.
So we're going to be an ambidextrous company.
We're going to grow the business and we're going to lower our breakeven and we'll do that to bring great results to our shareholders.
So with that I'd like to open it up for questions and we'll be more than happy to take the next half an hour and get your thoughts.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Todd Vencil from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
In the release you cited and Jim you talked about softer than expected demand in Wallboard in the third quarter and then continuing into the fourth quarter.
I realize that you mentioned that I think you used the phrase the surge but we are thinking about it in terms of pre-buy that may have a different timing if the price increases you end up having different timing.
But with regard to what's going on in the third quarter industry volumes up a little less than 2% you said you guys were at 2%.
That doesn't seem to jive with a lot of sort of the positive fundamental things that you cited otherwise and that we've seen in housing and non-res and things like that.
So could you help us understand how you ended up with 2% with softer than expected growth there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a great question.
You look at all the macroeconomics that we've talked about it's very very positive which is good news.
The industry and really the industry was up less than that.
So you look at the overall industry I'm happy to say we did outperform but we did hit a soft patch and there is a couple theories here.
We feel that this is a short-term phenomena with the higher percentage of high-rise commercial or high-rise residential buildings that Matt was talking about have a longer lag.
The typical three-and-a-half months after a housing start we would typically see Wallboard demand.
We feel that's extended out now so that's a little bit of a lag.
You're starting to see some smaller units less per unit.
So we think this is just a – this quarter and maybe the next three months four months is just maybe a plateau but all the macroeconomics are there.
There is nothing structural there is nothing like they aren't pouring plastic into studs there is no product substitution.
We feel the macroeconomics are there.
This is a plateau a pause maybe a delay just because the construction has changed.
You aren't seeing the big housing tracts as well.
You aren't seeing housing tracts 400 homes 500 homes being built.
The builders are being very limited on houses coming out.
So we're still very optimistic about the macroeconomics.
This is we feel just a kind of a pause for volume.
Got it.
That makes a lot of sense.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
And to Mr.
Hilzinger nice way to tighten the SG&amp;A belt; that's good work.
Hey wanted to just dig in a little bit on Ceilings.
You had an extremely challenging comparison with the prior-year period.
And I'm just trying to understand and think more concretely.
Is this a pricing issue for you guys? Is this a mix issue for you guys with a bias in your sales towards Grid over Ceiling? And you got positive trends going on you're outperforming the industry on Wallboard.
Should Ceilings start to track slightly more positive in line with Gypsum? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Bob and we still feel very good about the Ceilings business.
Margins are great.
We had a tough comp but what we look at is we're starting to see some volume growth.
And we hadn't seen that if you go back two years ago we didn't see the quarter-on-quarter volume.
It's not huge growth but we've had four consecutive quarters with unit volumes on both Tile and Grid.
We don't feel we've lost market share.
We're in a very competitive market.
So there was a little bit of – we lost a little bit on price but that was really on more of our commodity products.
We just introduced in August some really great high-NRC premium products that quite frankly we don't feel that there is a match out there.
This came out of our innovation center and our scientists came out and these are 80 NRC and 90 NRC products which are on the very high end.
So no there is nothing systemic that we're concerned about.
We had a tough comp.
Our volumes are growing.
The commercial business is starting to show some life we're out of the view of choppy and I think it will start trending in the way that you're seeing in the Gypsum business.
So I think all hands are in good shape here.
If I could just sneak one in and then I'll hand it off.
How should we be thinking about cost inflation as well in Ceilings and Gypsum? Thanks and good luck.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Bob thanks for sneaking that one.
Hey we've seen inflation in virtually every input category that we've had other than natural gas.
So we've seen inflation in labor in Wallboard we've seen it in our synthetic gypsum.
We've seen it in some of our special ingredients our other raw materials.
We've seen it even slightly in waste paper.
You got to remember our paper plants are primarily in the Midwest and so they aren't as influenced by China's needs and so they don't fluctuate as much.
So there's been a benefit I think of waste paper on the East Coast and West Coast but where our paper plants are we haven't seen as much benefit; in fact we've seen a little bit of an increase.
So we were fortunate I think through a lot of efforts in the manufacturing team to go through with their Lean Six Sigma efforts to continue to take out costs and we had a couple of other benefits.
We had a small ARO accounting adjustment that helped offset part of the inflation in Wallboard this quarter.
So as I think about Wallboard costs in the fourth quarter and even Wallboard costs out into 2016 our expectation is that we're going to see some inflation.
I think we're going to get a little bit of a tailwind on natural gas similar to what we had in the third quarter we'll probably get that in the fourth quarter.
But I do think it's going to be offset by some inflation.
And then it's a similar story in Ceilings right.
I mean we've had price increases and cost inflation in labor and some of our slag and so it's a very similar story.
We've got a great team in our Ceilings manufacturing group that's putting in Lean Six Sigma practices and looking at some new automation and some things that I think are helping us.
But inflation is out there.
So as much as I kind of read that we're in a low-inflation environment that's not what we're experiencing here at USG.
Good stuff.
Good luck and thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Philip Ng from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Can you kind of break out how much of your business is tied to places where you're seeing weakness in Boral? I mean you called out China Thailand and Indonesia.
And I think if I heard you correctly Matt you're still expecting 3% to 5% top-line growth.
How are you thinking you're going to get there in light of some of the macro backdrop and does that account for FX as well? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Let me just touch on the markets and then I'll have Matt talk about FX.
As I said our region really isn't a China play but it does have a little bit of – it can throw a cold on the rest of the region.
The strong areas right now we're very strong in Australia.
You see Australia volumes up double-digit.
Australia is being fueled a lot by a lot of currency coming out of China.
There are a lot of Chinese investors in the apartment side of the business looking for investments there.
South Korea is very very strong.
The business is very – that's one of our key markets.
We've just put NextGen in South Korea so that's a great market.
Thailand and Indonesia have hit just a little bit of a soft patch in the quarter but have been very strong regions.
In fact this time last year we were basically on Wallboard allocation so we have a tough comp there but those are very solid regions.
So those are really the big four.
We do very well in Vietnam but that's a small region.
We have a new plant there.
We're doing excellence.
We have a new plant startup in Oman.
Again those are small numbers there but the Middle East is still considering what's going on from a political standpoint the Middle East for us is still a great market for us.
We just got UL approval on our products coming out of our Oman plant so we'll be able to do a lot of the high-rise work there.
So China does have an impact on the business but those are some of the areas that are still very strong and we're making sure we have all of our resources there.
Yeah.
Hey Phil it's Matt Hilzinger.
I want to echo what Jim said and that is we're still very encouraged about the prospects in that part of the world and China is slowing and we're seeing a little bit of that impact.
But that revenue growth number that I gave you was really kind of net of FX.
And in fact in the quarter their sales were depressed by almost $60 million because of FX.
So if you take FX out they're actually in double-digit top-line growth which is where we would expect them to be where we want them to be and where we're going to hold them accountable to be.
But if you look at FX through the balance of the year I think on a net-net on an absolute basis you're closer to call it 4% 5% 6% in that range.
So the underlying business is still really very good.
We would expect to see margin expansion both at the EBITDA line and the EBIT line as we progress through the next few quarters.
And absent some cataclysmic change in Southeast Asia I think that's something that the team's clearly going to strive for and clearly within our expectations.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Wood from Macquarie Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
You had mentioned some factors on the price decision that you'll have.
I'm curious if you have some idea of what type of demand growth you need to see in Wallboard to decide to implement a price increase and how much of a lead time would you need to notify customers on that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well thank you.
We would need demand a little better than what we're seeing right now.
Everyone is kind of perplexed on the overall industry demand kind of hit the plateau.
So we really look at we focus – really one key is we're in a regional business so we're going to look at regional demand is very very important.
We're always focused on improving pricing where we think it's feasible in Wallboard or really any products.
But you're right demand is really key.
We look out – probably we like to give our customers 30-day notice in conversations with them on what it will look like on any type of price increase – Ceilings Wallboard or anything.
So one thing that we're going to continue to evaluate the market and we're talking to customers now and really our pricing strategy for Wallboard is going to be not to exceed pricing for 2016.
And one thing that I just want to reiterate we're not offering job quotes that hasn't changed.
And our expectation is to get price improvement in Wallboard.
But right now we're looking to see what the demand looks like in the next 30 days 60 days to 90 days and we'll be making those decisions there but it has to be something greater than what we see now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tim Wojs from Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Hey guys.
Just on SG&amp;A you mentioned that you're looking for that to be maybe down again in 2016.
I'm just curious what types of SG&amp;A are you guys looking at tightening? I mean is this just general belt-tightening or is there maybe some structural things that you're changing to the business to just readjust the cost structure? Yeah.
Thanks for the questions this is Matt Hilzinger.
It's a combination of all that right.
I mean we've gone through and look we're really good at this and this is one of the tenants that Jim has laid out strategic tenants which is strengthen the core and it's all about lowering our breakeven.
So it's in SG&amp;A it's in our production costs with Lean Six Sigma.
So it's across a variety of things but I also want to say that we're investing in the business.
So it's not all cutting.
We're also making some pretty significant investments.
We've invested in Cloquet new high-quality laminating line there.
Jim had mentioned Plaster City and what we're doing around some of our specialty panels out on the West Coast.
You've heard us talk about Surfaces and Substrates.
So there are areas that we are investing in but clearly we're looking at expenses across the board and it's how we procure raw materials it's how we think about IT staffing and IT projects.
We've been very judicious on head count that's something that clearly is within our control.
We've looked at marketing how effective is our marketing and where do we really want to spend the dollars.
T&amp;E look we're going to put the people – we're going to put our folks in front of our customers but some of the what we call non-essential travel we'll pull back a little bit if we need to pull back.
Outside professional fees it's always amazing when you look at who dollars are going out to.
There's always opportunities to pull back on some dollars there.
So it's across the board and I can't stress enough what our manufacturing and our Lean Six Sigma team is doing for the company right.
I mean it's a lot of singles and a couple of doubles every quarter at every plant and that's helping bring in and maintain our – offset some of this inflation that we're seeing.
So look Jim said it and I'll reiterate it we're going to spend less than our guidance of $325 million this year and our spending is going to be lower next year and we're absolutely committed to that and so more to come on that as we get into the fourth quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If I can just add on Matt's comments.
If you recall a year ago there were quite a few questions that you had about our IT spend and it was one of the negative variances when we showed you our results.
And this allows us to have less SG&amp;A.
We invested last year and the last couple of years and now we've been able to do things with technology.
Quite frankly our back office reducing our back-office spend.
I mentioned that at L&amp;W but that's across the network.
So we did have a spend last year on IT and we said it's going to result in us being able to go forward with a lower SG&amp;A.
So that's one of the advantages of that pay forward that we did last year.
So this is something that has – we always look at the market but this is a core competency at USG Corporation.
But as I said earlier we need to be ambidextrous.
We need to invest in the business and grow as Matt said and we're going to continue to do that and we're going to continue to focus on keeping that breakeven and lowering that breakeven from both a balance sheet perspective and operational perspective.
So you will continue to see more results on that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Well thanks.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks very much guys.
We've been hearing the builders talking about construction delays a lot in the single-family arena mostly due to labor and things like that.
And was curious as to whether you could – or took a look at that and have a sort of quantification for maybe what softness you saw in 3Q volumes that might be attributable to just a longer lag time between the start let's say and when you actually put the board and compound on to the walls.
If you could just give me – give us a sense for that that will be helpful.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Stephen thank you.
That's part of what we are putting in our thought process.
I talked about the lag we have a higher percentage.
If you look around in downtown Chicago most of the high-rises here 30-story 40-story 50-story they look like a commercial building but they're residential buildings.
So that has probably a 12-month lag.
But the labor shortages are real particularly skilled.
We see it more on the commercial side the builders are reporting that.
But commercial drywall hangers carpenters that is also an issue.
I think some of our contractors are being very measured about what jobs they take because of having skilled labor.
So that falls into the formula.
It's a little bit of everything here and we think we've hit a – it's kind of a plateau on the overall macroeconomics.
But I wouldn't say labor is a major part of this but it's a contributing factor.
And I wish I could quantify it but if you have a point of view of quantifying it we'd be really interested in your thoughts as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Absolutely.
Well we'll share that later.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning it's actually Jason Marcus in for Mike.
So I know you discussed your highest-growth areas within the commercial end markets but I wanted to see for the quarter specifically within Ceilings if you could break out the different verticals in terms of where you saw relative strength versus weakness and where you think the most pent-up demand is there going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we started – the strength in the Ceilings business is on the high-end products.
The high-NRC products really really in growth there.
You're seeing the owners and architects specifying products where noise coefficient is really important.
You have open office space which is important there.
So that's why the investment in our high-end Ceilings and we just introduced as I mentioned additional products in August are important.
If you look at the overall business I've used the term before the golden horseshoe on the Ceilings business it's San Francisco down through California.
The East Coast is very very strong New York City is strong commercially which means higher office construction versus residential.
So really on Ceilings if you look at the growth of office construction that follows the Ceilings business.
The high-rise residential that we were referring to earlier has no Ceilings impact.
So you may be driving around a city and say my there is a lot of commercial business why isn't Ceilings growing.
It needs to be office or medical or education really where ceilings go in.
So when you break that out office construction really is the driver of the Ceilings business.
So high-end office construction are really the key drivers of new Ceilings growth.
Ceilings repair and remodels also very very important; that's kind of a hidden market there.
So that commercial repair and remodel for example when buildings get changed out so that vacancy rate is really a number we look at for Ceilings' macroeconomic growth.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to go back to the whole idea of Wallboard pricing and there's a few different things going on with the competitive environment and different times for the price increases that have been announced.
And clearly you guys have the not-to-exceed price and that's being extended.
But I think one of the concerns we hear from investors is that you're going to go through a period at the beginning of the year that may not be covered by any price increase for some others or even any price letter so it leaves room for some slippage.
So wanted to get your take on that and is there a mandate to the field to basically hold price at any cost at these levels even though it's not-to-exceed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well really with Wallboard and all of our price increases first of all it's really key on the market demand and our value proposition.
We get – right now we have – with our value proposition we have a price premium in the market and we're always balancing our Wallboard price let's say you asked the question on Wallboard price with volume.
As you saw in the quarter our volumes even though the demand was not as strong as we thought our volumes hung in there our price hung in there and we do not expect any slippage particularly with the macroeconomics that we're all talking about.
We feel that depending on the timing we will get price improvement in Wallboard in 2016.
We are going to – our focus is to outpace inflation.
Matt talked about inflation.
So margin expansion in Wallboard and all of our products is very very critical.
So we have our eye on the market.
You talk about the people in the field.
Our pricing authority is very centralized.
We've been doing that for four years and we're very optimistic about 2016 and getting price improvement.
The question of when we will get it that's something we're taking under advisement now looking at some of the variables that I talked about earlier.
So with the market being better in 2016 from a demand standpoint versus this year we feel that price improvement over inflation is something that's very very doable.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Garik Shmois from Longbow.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just wanted to circle around on some of the slowdown in volume that you identified mainly the longer lead time in multifamily and commercial and the timing from when they break ground and when you start seeing Wallboard shipments.
But I am just wondering as we continue to see strength in these categories as we continue to potentially see some labor shortages on the housing side that was alluded to earlier you called out the lack of multi – you called out the lack of tract home development on the single-family side.
Is there a potential structural headwind to Wallboard demand over the next several years just due to the mix shift to multifam and commercial just given the shared wall phenomenon and could we expect to see a lower wallboard content per unit moving forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I don't – no.
There is not a structural change.
The biggest structural change would be a product substitution and we spend a lot of time at our innovation center actually trying to reinvent a substitute for wallboard.
So that would be the big issue.
We think the lag has moved to three and a half months lag has moved.
Labor shortages is not a big issue there's still going to have to put up wallboard.
You look at commercial construction actually in commercial construction commercial high-rise you more wallboard not less.
You typically use two layers you have steel over steel studs.
So no we do not see- we view this as a plateau a softer quarter demand-wise.
So actually we've spent a lot of time on this and we've been doing this for almost 115 years and we see this as a short-term phenomena on the business and don't have any major concern structurally.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Question back on Ceilings.
You had mentioned some price pressure on Grid I believe at the low end – excuse me price pressure on Tiles at the low end.
Could you give us any more specifics on how pervasive was it and kind of what was the pricing if you look at your Tile business overall year-over-year how much is it down? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we are in a very competitive market and every day we get an order fighting for an order in the field.
So it's not a big movement there it's more on the "mid-to-entry-level tiles." So really the game's being played in the high end I mean that's the high margin that's where the growth is.
So I wouldn't be concerned with it.
It's just a quarter-by-quarter phenomenon 1 percentage – 1% 2% movement in our mid to – I hate to call it commodity tile but kind of our entry-level tile.
So one of the things on Ceilings is we have a great distribution network and we've been really focused the last few quarters on continuing to improve our acoustical ceiling distribution.
We've upgraded in some areas of the country which we're very happy about and we feel that the structural organization of our sales organization and our distribution really puts us in a nice position to continue the returns that we've had in this business.
So I wouldn't be concerned about a little bit of – that's kind of a quarter-by-quarter type of movement.
We are starting to see a little bit of volume growth as I mentioned earlier four straight quarters of some volume growth.
The macroeconomics are starting to give us some wind at our back.
So we are very optimistic about this part of our business and it's been kind of the hero through the recession.
So we are going to continue to grow the Ceilings business and get price improvement as I've talked earlier about Wallboard get the same type of price improvement in Ceilings above inflation as we go forward.
We have time for one other question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital.
Matt please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Reuben in for Matt.
Thanks for taking my question.
So the incremental margin in the Gypsum business was down a little bit sequentially.
I was wondering if you could kind of walk us through the difference between the two quarters and maybe there is a lot of moving parts natural gas and paper costs and pricing.
What your thoughts are or we should think about that as we move into next year? Thank you.
Yeah.
This is Matt Hilzinger.
So look I think if you look at the quarter sequentially we had a really terrific second quarter in Wallboard.
Volumes were up for us in the second quarter 10% – excuse me – about 5%; they're at 2% now.
That does affect part of the leverage and the profitability that we see in the business.
I think on the cost side we had some good tailwinds you may recall in the second quarter.
We had a really strong tailwind with natural gas.
We had a tailwind in the third quarter on natural gas this quarter but it wasn't nearly as strong as what we saw in the second quarter.
So I think if you look at kind of volume of Wallboard and you take a look at what nat gas did in the quarter those are a couple of the big pieces.
But let me just – if you take a look at U.S.
Gypsum on an operating profit basis for – on a year-to-date basis through the first nine months our operating profit margin on an adjusted basis was 16% compared to just under 14% last year.
So on a year-to-date basis year-over-year we've been able to drive significant improvement in U.S.
Wallboard – U.S.
Gypsum.
And I just – I think look as Jim said you're going to get an ebb and flow a little bit on volumes and that has an impact in terms of kind of incrementals and overall profitability.
But I think the third quarter was actually a good quarter considering that we saw a little bit of a slowdown in volume.
So I'm pleased with where we are and I'm glad we did what we did in the second quarter.
I would love to comp it but I think we did a darn good job this quarter; I'm pleased.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Jim Metcalf for closing comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you.
Just to kind of build on what Matt said we feel we had a solid third quarter and most importantly I'm really confident in the direction of all of our businesses and where we're heading.
We have a lot of reasons to be optimistic about the improved markets going forward.
But by maintaining an intense focus on the efficiencies that we have at our plants and in our L&amp;W locations with Lean Six Sigma the cost control we're prepared for a range of market conditions.
We are prepared for market growth and if we have a very short-term pause on demand we're also prepared for that.
We continue to execute our plan to win.
We're strengthening our core businesses.
I think you see that with the margin improvement in mostly all of our businesses this quarter.
If you look at it going forward we plan to improve margins in all of our businesses and we also want to diversify the earnings with the adjacent products.
You saw those results coming through in our Surfaces and Substrates business which are growing tremendously there.
We really are enthusiastic about that side of the business.
Our geographic growth we talked about USG Boral but I want to close on innovation.
And this is something that we're going to continue to invest in.
We have some great products that we are going to be introducing to the market.
We're working on big ideas products equal to or maybe even greater than what we put out with UltraLight.
We're expanding our UltraLight portfolio throughout the country on our 5/8 side of the business and we're very very enthusiastic about the future.
So we look forward to speaking with you in February.
We appreciate your interest and have a great morning.
Thanks Jim.
A taped replay of this call will be available until Thursday November 5.
Information is available on usg.com.
This concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you and thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.