Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding the forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2013 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2012 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and in the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 23 2013 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Sandy and welcome to Bard's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'd also like to thank you all for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call will last about 20 minutes.
The discussions today will go as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter; John Weiland our President and COO will review the second quarter product line revenue; Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the second quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q3.
And because we've just recently updated you on our pipeline at our Analyst Meeting held in June after Chris we'll just go straight to Q&amp;A.
John DeFord our Senior VP Science Technology and Clinical Affairs is with us to help answer any questions you may have.
Second quarter 2013 net sales totaled $759.9 million.
That's up 2% over the second quarter last year on an as-reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was unfavorable by about 20 basis points.
The net loss for the second quarter of 2013 was $161.6 million and diluted loss per share was $2.03.
That included a net charge for product liability of approximately $293 million.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later second quarter 2013 net income and diluted EPS were $117.2 million and $1.42 down 17% and 12% respectively.
These adjusted results exceeded the guidance we provided for the quarter.
Our investment plan is proceeding as planned and our teams are executing on the opportunities in front of us.
Taking a look at revenue growth geographically compared to Q2 of last year.
Second quarter net sales in the U.S.
increased 2% while internationally we grew 4% on a constant currency basis.
Europe grew 1% in constant currency.
Japan declined 4% from a very difficult comp last year when a competitor stent was off the market there.
Our other international businesses grew 13% in constant currency with emerging markets leading the way again now representing 8% of our global sales.
We're very pleased with the progression we're seeing from our investments in emerging markets.
On the business development front we remain very active with some attractive targets we hope to talk about later this year.
I'm sure you saw our announcement of the divestiture of our electrophysiology business this quarter.
We would expect that transaction to close this year.
We believe this is strategically the right move for us at this time so we can focus our resources on faster growth opportunities where we believe we can achieve sustainable long-term leadership positions.
The surgical sealant products we acquired in fourth quarter of last year are performing well and we're very pleased with the integration so far.
We told you the impact would be a little less than 1% of growth in 2013 and that was their impact in the second quarter.
So while we're not happy with global growth in the low single digits and we're actively working to improve that we are pleased with the improvement on our operating results this quarter.
We continue to manage the business to shift the mix of the portfolio to faster-growing products and geographies and we're focused on improving the portfolio and remain optimistic in our ability over the next couple of years to return to above market revenue growth.
We do believe the investment plan that we announced to you all in January and spent a considerable amount of time on at our analyst meeting last month will serve as a significant catalyst to help us get back to sustainable faster revenue growth longer term.
We're very focused on execution.
And as I mentioned we're pleased with the results so far.
I can tell you that the teams are energized and excited to be back on offense.
There's certainly more to come here and we look forward to updating you on our progress in the upcoming quarters.
Before I hand the call over to John Weiland I want to give you a brief update on the Gore litigation.
As most of you know the oral arguments at the District Court in Arizona took place on June 12.
We continue to await the judge's ruling on our motion to release the funds for the underlying infringement and also on the separate question as to whether Gore's infringement was willful or not which comes with an additional and separate penalties not included in our guidance.
We continue to believe that we'll receive the cash related to the underlying infringement before the end of the year.
That amount just to remind you through March 31 2013 is approximately $819 million and has been growing every quarter.
Our original adjusted EPS guidance for 2013 assumed we would have the money by the end of July and we told you that every quarter was worth about $0.30 to adjusted EPS.
Once we get the ruling we will be in a better position to be more precise with the estimated timing and the potential impact to EPS for this year.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $212.2 million down 4% over last year on both an as reported and constant currency basis.
Our U.S.
business was down 2% for the quarter while internationally we were down 6%.
Our electrophysiology sales were down 1% for the quarter with EP Lab system sales up 2% and our disposable EP product line is down 1%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% in Q2 within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business decreased 5% in the second quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products saw a nice rebound this quarter achieving 5% growth over the prior year.
The environment remains difficult here but we saw some improvement in our competitive positioning especially internationally.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 8% including 5% growth in the United States.
Sales in our Vena Cava Filter line were up 3% in Q2.
We've seen the sales dollars become a bit more stable over the last year after several years of decline in this product line.
We told you at the analyst meeting that our new Denali filter was launched last month about 6 months ahead of schedule and we expect that to contribute to improved growth in the coming quarters.
Our stent business declined 23% in Q2 almost the exact percentage of growth we saw a year ago due to a competitor's quality issue especially in Japan.
The space remains highly competitive but the comp should ease a little in the back half of the year.
So let's now go to urology.
Total net sales were $191.7 million up 2% versus Q2 of last year on an as reported and constant currency basis.
The United States business was down 2% while internationally we grew 11%.
Our targeted temperature management products continue to increase sequentially with the year-over-year growth north of 20% domestically and internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% globally in Q2 and up 1% in the United States.
Our I.C.
Foley business was down 1% globally and down 4% in the United States consistent with recent trends here.
Our continence business was down 17% in Q2 driven by continued pressure in the United States on the women's health procedures.
This global product family has shrunk to less than 1% of our total sales and we expect to see continued declines in the future.
Sales in urological specialties were up 9% in Q2 as the largest product line in the category our brachytherapy business was up strong percent with strong results internationally.
And finally in this category stand-alone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 8% in Q2.
Now let's go on to oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $214.1 million an increase of 8% on both an as reported and constant currency basis over Q2 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were 5%.
Internationally sales were up 15%.
Our port business was up 4% versus Q2 last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 10% this quarter with strong growth both in the United States and outside the United States.
We are pleased to see double-digit growth again on our largest product line.
In the United States we're improving the quality of care with new paradigm-changing technology.
And internationally we're improving the quality of care by expanding the use of PICCs in place of peripheral IVs for those patients who require longer-term access.
As we told you at the analyst meeting we see significant growth opportunities ahead here.
Our Vascular Access ultrasound product line was up 12% this quarter with over half of the growth coming from international markets.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 5% this quarter.
Let's conclude our discussions with the surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $120.0 million up 8% on both an as reported and constant currency basis.
United States sales were up 7% and international sales were up 11% this quarter.
Our surgical sealant products continue to build sequentially and are driving most of the growth in the category.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 4% in Q2 slightly better than recent quarters.
We continue to see stable growth in synthetics.
And the last 2 quarters have shown a return to growth in our natural tissue products up 8% this quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Our hernia fixation business declined 9% this quarter consistent with recent experience.
Closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 10%.
So this concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to Chris Holland for a look at the P&amp;L.
Thanks John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between the periods.
In Q2 we took a net charge for product liability of approximately $293 million primarily driven by women's health litigation.
We also had acquisition-related items of $1.9 million $3.2 million in asset impairments and a $1.4 million reversal of a prior restructuring accrual.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $463.3 million or 61% of sales for Q2.
On an adjusted basis GP was 61.1% of sales down 40 basis points from the prior year quarter.
We told you that we would see a significant rebound from Q1 and we did with a 70-basis-point sequential improvement.
We expect to see continued sequential improvement in the coming quarters and we're on track with our projections for the year excluding the timing of Gore royalties.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months cost us about 20 basis points year-over-year in this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 140 basis points on the revenue line and 50 basis points in GP consistent with our expectations for the year.
SG&amp;A expenses were $226.3 million for the quarter or 29.8% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29.7% or 210 basis points higher than Q2 of 2012 with approximately 90 basis points coming from the medical device excise tax and approximately 50 basis points from new deals.
We also continue to drive our investments in emerging markets to access faster growth and shift the mix of our portfolio.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $66.1 million for the second quarter or 8.7% of sales on a reported basis.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales for the second quarter was 8.6% of sales which is up 190 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the prior year.
Combined with the emerging market investments fueling the R&amp;D engine is critical to our investment plan and we are doing just that.
Interest expense was $11.1 million for the second quarter up as expected from a year ago because of our bond offering in Q4 of 2012.
Other income and expense was $295.7 million of expense for the second quarter as reported and $2.1 million of expense on an adjusted basis driven by foreign exchange.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.8% on track with our full year guidance.
Diluted shares for the period were 81.1 million and we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares during the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $1.42 per share above the range we provided for the quarter as sales came in a little better than we had expected.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $868.3 million versus $905.3 million at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were up 0.9 days and inventory days were down 4.9 days driven by moving the electrophysiology inventory to assets held for sale.
Capital expenditures totaled $17.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.5 billion as of June 30 up slightly from $1.4 billion at March 31.
Debt to total cap at the end of the second quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.6 billion at June 30 2013.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q3 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 1% and 3% excluding any royalties from Gore.
Our original sales guidance for the year was 0% to 3% growth excluding the Gore royalties and we expect to be squarely within that range.
With respect to the Gore timing as Tim said we still expect cash in hand prior to the end of 2013.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we see the third quarter in the range of $1.37 to $1.41 per share.
To be clear this guidance reflects the fact that we don't expect to have final resolution of the Gore matter this month.
And as we previously discussed that reduces adjusted EPS by about $0.30 per share for the quarter.
With respect to full year EPS guidance we'll be in a better position to update you once we have seen the rulings from the District Court.
Also I'll just finish by reminding you that in conjunction with the announcement of the divestiture of our EP business we told you that would be about $0.05 dilutive to 2013 EPS assuming a late Q3 close.
With that let me turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session at this point.
[Operator Instructions].
[Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the acceleration in the international oncology business.
This was obviously a very strong quarter.
Maybe can you just give us a little more color as to why it was so strong and the sustainability? Well we had -- Mike we had pretty good performance across the board in our International businesses.
As you know we had -- as I mentioned in the comments biopsy was particularly strong internationally overall for the quarter.
And I guess I would also say that the United States in terms of sequentially performed very nicely.
PTA was also very strong internationally in a really good good cross-section both in Europe as well as in Japan.
We talked a little bit about Vena Cava did have a positive momentum overall internationally although we also said that revenue picked up in the United States.
And I'd say in general we saw we had good performance across the board within the segment.
I think -- Mike did you ask about vascular or oncology? Research Division</strong> Oncology I think.
Oncology? Sorry about that.
If you look at oncology we had a very strong port performance internationally good performance in the United States but very strong internationally and extremely strong international performance on PICCs with really led by emerging markets.
And our next question is from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I'll ask the litigation question just to get a little more clarity on some things.
First of all on the pelvic floor the commentary that you made.
Is this your best estimate on the total liability and when do you think we'll know for sure what that liability might be? And then on Gore just curious as to your take on what's taking so long for the ruling and does that have any implications on what you think the ruling might be? Sure Bob.
It's Chris.
I'll cover the women's health litigation issue.
The accounting rules as you know really drive the recognition of a liability.
And so at this point in time this is our current estimate to settle both claims received as well as our estimate of future claims net of recoveries.
So we're taking into consideration a whole host of different factors in trying to arrive at the size of the liability today.
There's certainly not a way for us to say with absolute certainty that this is the final number.
So this is an estimate at a point in time based on all the information that we do have.
I would highlight the fact this is a noncash liability at this point.
To the extent down the road this becomes a cash outlay for the company.
These products were all manufactured outside the U.S.
And so to the extent there's a cash -- ultimately a cash outlay we'll be able to utilize our OUS cash balance.
So there's no impact here in anyway with respect to our investment plan or acquisition strategy or use of the Gore proceeds our share buyback program or our ability to continue to invest in the business.
So I just wanted to be clear on that piece.
And Bob it's Tim.
Relative to your Gore question the judge is under no timeline to write an opinion on this or make a decision and there's nothing we read into that one way or the other.
I would tell you that based on the way things have progressed so far we like where we stand at this point in time.
But there's nothing to be read into any outcome relative to timing here.
And the next question is from Dave Turkaly.
He is with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> And just to switch over back to the EP divestiture.
Can you just -- I know you walked us through and I know there is a capital component there.
But can you discuss why you think this won't have any other impact sort of on the other lines that you're going to maintain? Sure.
When you look at the call points and we are a very call-point-oriented company the EP call point was a fairly discrete call point.
In general it's tagged in the cardiology.
The only other products -- as you know we're into the peripheral vascular aspect of that.
There are some interventional cardiologists that do those procedures.
However a very large part of the procedures are done by interventional radiologists and also endovascular surgeons.
And those specialists that would do those peripheral procedures have virtually nothing -- in fact I can't think of one that has anything to do with electrophysiology.
And next we'll go to the line of Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just to follow up on that question.
I was curious in terms of use of the capital you talked a lot in the past about plans for the Gore settlement and you specified with the EP divestiture that you really wanted to focus on areas where you can be #1 or #2.
Can you talk a little bit about areas where you're looking to invest more into? You've done some recent deals in surgery and vascular.
Are there other things that you'd look to divest and where you really want to focus? Yes this is Tim again.
We've been -- and we've maintained what we've been saying strategically: to grow faster you have to invest in faster-growing areas.
For a long time a big component of our strategy is you've got to have this product leadership and we defined that as being #1 or #2 which we are in 80% of our revenues.
So simply stated we want to invest more in those areas where we can be #1 or #2 that are in segments or in geographies growing faster than we're growing today.
As it relates to other divestitures we've said for a long time now that it's always easier to divest the business than it is to divest the product line.
The last time we divested anything of significance was our endoscopic business back in 2003 -- 2004.
And that again was a self-contained business.
So the list of things that if somebody made a call and said "Hey we'd love to buy this product line from you." We do have that list.
But it takes a lot of effort and activity to divest something and we'd rather have management's time and effort focused on growth.
But we do have that list as well.
So I think we're in good shape strategically and it's consistent with what we've said over the years here.
And our next question is from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> To follow on Mike's question oncology being really strong outside the U.S.
surgery was as well.
It was up over 10% and it was much better than last quarter.
Same with oncology.
And Neomend was in last quarter's results for surgery.
So should we think about those 2 businesses the acceleration being mostly emerging market driven? Because I didn't get the sense Europe improved that much? Is that a fair statement? I'll handle it kind of on a strategic level and I'll let John handle the details.
As we've said all along and as we've looked at emerging markets it's not like we give the 15 000 SKU playbook to every country manager and say "Go sell everything." So there is a very focused effort in terms of where we put these resources in the emerging markets.
Oncology and surgical are 2 of those areas.
So you're starting to see the execution and the payoff for those investments with a faster growth rate in those segments and those markets so that's all by design at a strategic level.
And I'll let John comment on the specifics.
If you look at oncology as I mentioned earlier both ports and PICCs were strong around the world.
Ports were strong -- very strong in emerging markets very strong in Japan and PICCs were very strong in emerging markets.
Good performance in Europe in PICCs where we had good double-digit growth and there was an uptick in the growth in the United States on PICCs where we saw a significant step in the right direction.
So it was really a pretty good performance across the board.
I'd say in surgical in general we saw good performance around the world nice step-up that we had this month in terms of our sealant product lines.
We really saw a really nice breakout quarter for us starting to get a traction in that across the board.
And I'd say also we had in the general soft tissue repair good performance in emerging markets and a very strong performance in Japan.
So I think we're seeing pretty good balance across the board in these spaces.
And our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A question for John Weiland on the vascular franchise.
John you said in your prepared remarks that the stent impact would ease in the second half.
I'm just wondering if we should expect that franchise to get back to flat or even positive growth in the second half.
And then secondly I wonder if you'd give some color on how the Lutonix European launch has gone? I think it's going to be tough to get back into a flat or growth in stents even though the comps eased.
That's for sure.
I mean there's a lot of pressure in that business right now particularly a little pressure from a pricing standpoint.
However I would say that if you look at our unit growth going back to 2011 where the market would have been very stable with all the competitors in we have seen nice unit growth since 2011 in stents.
But it is going to be difficult to get back into a growth or even flat in the second half of the year from my standpoint [ph].
In terms of Lutonix we're right on plan where we expected to be in terms of our launch with Lutonix in Europe.
Very good feedback from the clinicians on the product line and our entry into that business which I think allows us to be very bullish about what the future of Lutonix looks like.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up John if I could.
If stents don't get back to growth can the vascular franchise grow? Or should we think about that as one in the same? Well we've guided -- this is Tim sorry.
We guided for the year vascular minus 2% to 1% positive for the total product category so that's where we see it going for the year.
And our next question is from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Something caught my ear when you were talking about the Gore case talking about willful infringement.
Does that get handed down at the same time or is that lagged? And is there any way to quantify what that might be? Sure.
So there's 2 discrete pieces right the infringement piece as Tim says is $819 million through March.
We expect another payment next week for the June quarter so that continues to grow.
The infringement piece is a static $206 million -- excuse me the willfulness is $206 million of stagnant damages.
And Judge Murguia heard oral arguments on the release of the infringement funds on the willfulness issue as to whether or not Gore was willful or not as well as a third motion related to a new trial.
So we expect that she will rule on those 3 motions: again the release of the infringement damages to us; a ruling on willfulness; and then a ruling on whether or not if they are not found willful are they due a new trial? So there are 3 separate rulings we anticipate her ruling on.
Okay.
And then can you just give us your view on the big picture volume price what's really going on out there.
My sense is we're looking at pretty stable med tech market but I'd love your view.
Sure.
We haven't seen -- now I'll refer these comments specifically to the U.S.
We haven't seen a whole lot of dynamic change in the marketplace.
There's certainly nothing we call a trend.
We obviously pay attention to the public hospital reported data.
We've seen what's been reported there.
So I don't see any dynamics that would cause a lot of change in what the trends have been there.
Relative to price we still have headwinds in terms of price.
As John alluded to when he was talking about the stent question in those areas where we have more competition there seems to be more price and I don't see that abating really at all either.
But it has kind of settled in in a fairly narrow range for us.
We're not seeing maybe some of the volatility in price that we've seen in years past.
And next we go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Chris just maybe a clarification on third quarter guidance.
I think I heard you say 1% to 3% constant currency and there obviously was some evidence of momentum in multiple businesses in the quarter -- in the second quarter.
If you kind of work through the math there I wonder does that number include or exclude EP? And if so what is the impact? And then specifically if that 1% to 3% is constant currency it implies a deceleration into the third quarter if my math is right.
Are there any sort of onetime dynamics that sort of drive that trend given you're basically saying you're comfortable with the year? So right now we're assuming a late Q3 close from EP -- for EP so that wouldn't really materially impact that number in the quarter.
And just to be clear obviously we round the 3% in Q2 but it's just over 2.5%.
So it's sort of a weak 3% in Q2.
And so while I think we just commented on a stable environment we continue to be cautious.
We continue to be a bit cautious about Europe and the pricing environment in a couple of categories is tough.
And as John said the stent comps get easier in the back half although Q3 in particular in Japan continues to be pretty tough.
So we think 1% to 3% growth rates similar to Q2 are reasonable at this point in time and we don't see any reason to be more bullish than that.
Research Division</strong> And Chris regardless of what happens with Gore your plans for the business and your investment plans in the back half of the year really don't change a whole bunch.
It's just a question whether the royalty hits the P&amp;L or not? That's exactly right David.
As we said we're going down this road.
We're committed to it.
And the only noise in '13 as we see it is really P&amp;L geography.
It doesn't change the NPV of what we're talking about here.
It's just going to change what the '13 P&amp;L looks like in terms of a larger bolus and onetime gain versus having a quarter or 2 or not in the royalty line from a revenue standpoint.
So I don't want to minimize the '13 P&amp;L at all but this is more about executing against a multiyear investment strategy with '13 being the critical first year of it.
And our next question is from David (sic) [Jason] Wittes with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Jason.
But the question I have was about emerging markets and specifically should I assume that much of investment there is front-end loaded so it might take even a couple of years before a lot of that -- the top -- the upside of the top line actually flows to the bottom line? Or should I assume that it will come earlier and it's something that we can basically see immediately falling to the bottom line? Well in emerging markets -- this is John Weiland.
In emerging markets we're focused on adding over 220 positions in those markets this year the majority of which are sales-related positions.
And as you know as you add sales people it takes a while for them to get trained get accustomed to their territories and start having an impact.
But there is an impact out of the blocks especially considering the fact that these are in many cases entirely new entrants in the geographical spaces that we may have not had much penetration in in the past.
So we look at it as a building process.
You add these people we've added almost 160 of them already this year.
It's a building process throughout the year.
And as they get more productive they start making greater and greater contributions.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that in other words we should see -- as we approach 2015 we should continue to see gradual incremental improvements from emerging markets not sort of big investments up to 2015 then falling into the bottom line and then finally seeing in 2015 a lot of the investments really starting to pay off and sort of a big bolus of profitability.
The first way is probably the right way to think about it? I think what you're going to see is a gradual ramp based on the productivity of these sales people.
Then by far our largest investment year in this is the year 2013.
And our next question is from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to come back to some of the comments on the stent business specifically I know that earlier this year there were some potential concerns regarding a drug-alluding competitor.
That competitor seems to have had quite a bit of challenge getting to market.
So I hope -- can you maybe just provide a little more detail on the competitive dynamics there what's happening from an end market perspective in terms of unit volumes that is potentially making the environment more competitive from a pricing standpoint without a disruptive player on the market? Well I think the best way to sum that up would be as one player that was off the market last year got back onto the market this year they were very aggressive on price in trying to take back share from their original customer base.
The rest of it would be a lot of noise in addition to that but I think that would be the most significant issue that happened in terms of price.
And again we would think that would settle out here over the next few quarters.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a follow-up on the surgical specialties business which had a very nice quarter overall and probably seeing some of the most momentum it had in some time.
You did call out hernia down 9% in the quarter consistent with recent trend.
Anything to call out that might corroborate a stabilization there or a turn in that business? And what do you think it would take to get that part of the franchise back on track? I think what you're referring to is fixation.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry fixation.
That was down 9% in the quarter.
And our viewpoint is that's completely going to be focused on new products that we have in the pipeline.
We've talked a little bit about that.
We have a second half '13 launch and a first half 2014 launch in that space that we are very bullish on.
So that's going to be what will change the dynamics in that business for us.
And our next question is from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions sort of housekeeping.
The shares were a bit lower than we looked for.
Just remind us where you are with your share repurchase program and what we should be expecting for the year.
And were there -- the usual number of selling days in the quarter any extra fewer more? Sure.
With respect to days Rick we were flat days in the quarter.
Right? We were short a couple in Q1 that actually in Europe we won't get back.
So for the full year we'll be short a few days in Europe but Q2 is a clean quarter from a days standpoint.
And to remind you we actually don't have a share purchase plan or program that we commit to you guys.
What we've I think done consistently and what we've now done so far this year is really depending on other uses of cash strategic uses of cash that's our priority.
But if we don't have opportunities to close into we'll return that cash to shareholders through buybacks.
And that's what we've done so far this year.
We feel good about the flexibility we have in the balance sheet as we look at the back half of the year and some of the opportunities Tim mentioned from an M&amp;A standpoint we're excited about.
And so buybacks are driven by other strategic uses of cash.
And absent those we'll buy back shares.
And so I'm not going to tell you how far we're into a plan for the year because the plan for the year is again partly dependent on how much M&amp;A activity we have in the pipeline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But should we use 81 for the year? Is that a reasonable place to be at this point? Yes I think the one -- the other caveat is obviously the Gore-related buyback commitments that we've made are going to be dependent on the timing of the final resolution and the receipt of the funds.
So that -- as we've talked about the $0.30 a quarter slippage $0.05 or so is due to the fact that we won't be buying the shares as quickly as we might have anticipated.
So I think we will -- the EP divestiture and those proceeds again depending on other M&amp;A opportunities would likely be deployed against additional buybacks in the back half.
So I don't want to -- I just don't want to commit to a number Rick because there's a number of things that could change that in the next 6 months.
And our next question is from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick clarification question or comment for John Weiland.
You mentioned 220 reps in -- or folks over in emerging markets in 2013.
You guys said on the analyst -- or at the analyst meeting it was going to be closer to 300.
Is there some reason for the delta there? No I thought the difference is that it would be 300 across Bard worldwide 220 focused on the major emerging markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just one real quick one for Chris.
I think last quarter you mentioned gross margin expectations somewhere closer to 61.5% and it came in modestly below that in the quarter.
Is there something there that you can provide a little bit more color on for the shortfall? And then just how should we think about that came [ph] to that metric this year with and without Gore? Sure sure.
So again there's a number of moving pieces inside gross margin as we've talked about.
The guidance for the full year excluding Gore was a 60- to 70-basis-point decline in GP so call it 61.3 to 61.4 for the year pre-Gore.
Every quarter of Gore is worth 35 to 45 basis points of incremental GP.
So put Gore to the side and we're talking about 60 to 70 basis points down driven by FX driven by currency driven by price and then partly offset by our cost improvement plans which again gate in over the course of the year at different rates.
So we expect sequential improvement in Q3 more significant sequential improvement in Q4 that gets us in the range consistent with what we guided for the year.
So again we're tracking on our cost improvement plans.
We may even be investing a little bit more as we see opportunities in front of us.
And so there's nothing unusual or unexpected as we look at how we're trending through Q2 and through the back half.
And our next question is from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the topic for settlement the accrual that you had.
I know it's sort of hard to predict but when might be I guess this turning into an actual cash outlay or when would you have perhaps a little bit greater sense on what the final amounts you may owe? Maybe so I'm assuming given the accounting rules this is probably more of a minimum number that you would expect? Yes again I wouldn't necessarily characterize it.
It's based on everything we know including our estimates of future claims as well.
So this is our best estimate at this point in time.
We continue to defend ourselves vigorously as you probably know Kristen.
And there's going to be a number of bellwether trials for us in the coming months with the first actually starting again on Monday -- next Monday the 29th in West Virginia.
So I think it's impossible to predict the timing.
This is again really an accounting-driven event in terms of us determining we have a probable and reasonably estimate-able liability which is all we've now concluded.
And we have to see how this plays out.
There's going to be a lot of moving pieces.
And the one thing I can tell you it won't be this exact number.
But it's impossible for me to tell you anything more or to really predict the timing.
Again I think the most important factor is when and if it does become a cash outlay it's not in any way going to impact the strategic flexibility or focus of the company.
Research Division</strong> And then Tim I think in your original remarks you had mentioned that you guys were going to be looking at doing more acquisitions.
Can you just maybe remind us how you're thinking about that with the divestiture of the EP business? Are you looking kind of still do more tuck-ins? Or would you be more willing to do something a little bit more significant in size since you'll be having some of the cash inflows from that divestiture? Yes frankly the impact of both the Gore cash and the EP divestiture has no impact at all on the way we look at doing acquisition size or type.
So I wouldn't expect to see anything different from what we've done historically due to that at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And I'll sneak one last in.
On the EP business can you maybe just help us get a better perspective on the margins? And as you divested it sounds like we'll see the impact more in the fourth quarter and then in 2014 what that could do from the gross margin perspective as well as operating margins.
Sure.
The margins for the business are actually slightly above the corporate average.
But given the size of that business relative to the total it's not going to be big enough for it really to be material to the margin.
But just nominally they are accretive to the corporate average.
But obviously there are a whole lot of other strategic reasons for us to make the decision we made.
Just to -- we will continue to be providing a range of services for an extended period of time in conjunction with the divestiture.
So really the final impact of it we're still continuing to work through as we look at Q4 and going into 2014.
But from a GP standpoint I wouldn't think of it as being a material impact to the corporate average.
Research Division</strong> And nonoperating margins are they also slightly above? Yes slightly above.
The GP accretion really flows through the operating margin accretion.
But again given the size of it it's not going to move the needle.
And the next question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just back on the product liability charge and my understanding is that it's primarily for the women's health product litigation.
Can you just explain why hernia and filter class action suits are not included in this charge? And is that because the expected outcome is a positive one for Bard? Yes we are disclosing this and describing it as a product liability charge.
So it's not only women's health it's primarily women's health related.
But intentionally we don't want to signal to any folks out there specifically what amount relates to what product category necessarily.
So it's again broader than women's health but primarily related to women's health.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just on -- you commented that you won't make up any extra selling days in Europe but the selling day lost in the U.S.
last -- in Q1 do you make that up in Q3 or in Q4? Yes I think it's sort of 1/2 a day each maybe but it's not a full -- yes I'm just looking at -- give me 1 sec.
Yes so we'll make up the day in the U.S.
in Q4.
So the full year will be on equivalent days basis in the U.S.
and 2 days short in Europe.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll go to the line of Robert Goldman with CL King.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on the question on aggregate price.
I believe you mentioned you thought aggregate prices would be down about 140 basis points this year.
And I believe at least by my records they were down 140 basis points in 2012 and 70 basis points in 2011.
As you look forward how are you guys modeling price increases or decreases? And if you're modeling something different than what's now happening 140 basis points of decline annually could you share with us why you're assuming that would be different whether it's higher or lower and what is it that you're seeing that would make it different than the current trend line? Bob this is Tim.
It's a complicated answer because there's price in a bunch of different countries based on a lot of different things.
In the United States a significant percentage of the business is on contract.
Those tend to be multiyear contracts.
There is some flexibility that various divisions have below that that we don't necessarily have projected visibility to ahead of time if you will so decisions made in the field.
And that puts -- we can book end it one way or the other but we can't predict it exactly.
And then internationally more so on the developed markets there's tenders and things like that.
So we kind of look at trend lines we tend to look at trends for multiple-year quarters here when we do our analytics.
So we model out what we think is going to be the most accurate representation based on the data we announced as we have at any given time.
The only thing I can tell you about that is it's not going to be right because of all the different dynamics the various SKUs involved and the way pricing decisions are made in the field.
So beyond that it's tough to give you a more clarifying answer then that's how we do it.
But we certainly haven't seen anything that would lead us to believe it's going to get worse at this point in time and we haven't seen anything that leads us to believe it's going to get significantly better.
So I think it's status quo as we stand here today.
So Bob just to your point we saw what we saw in 2012.
We budgeted for that similar level of price in 2013.
We expect that that's we're going to end up.
And the base plan that we've talked about on a multiyear basis does not assume any improvement in core pricing especially in the U.S.
Obviously new products like the drug-coated balloon I mean there's a mix issue related to new products.
But we're not assuming in '13 or in '14 or beyond that all of a sudden we see a better pricing environment? Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up to that just so I'm clear.
I understand you believe it won't get worse.
But should we assume that you're assuming 140-basis-points decline every year or from the current prices sort of a stabilization of price? Yes we don't give guidance beyond really a year at a time specifically Bob so very tough to say.
I guess the only other point I would add there is as you know the majority -- when I say majority 75% of our revenue come from products priced at a $500 or less price point.
So we don't get a lot of sways one way or the other with reimbursement decisions coming out of CMS or DRG code adjustments things like that.
We are very much market-based relative to what's happening in the procedures.
That concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I'd like to thank everybody for taking the time to join us today for the call.
And as always I'd like to close by thanking Bard employees around the world for their commitment and dedication and execution.
So with that we'll talk again in the next quarter.
And that concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.