Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies’ Third Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Jay Malave Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC’s website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC’s SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release today UTC reported solid third quarter earnings per share of $2.04 and 5% organic sales growth.
Gains net of restructuring was $0.22 in the quarter which is higher than previously expected largely due to the timing of some tax settlements in the third versus fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items earnings per share was up 12% and segment operating margins expanded by 60 basis points to 17.2% in the quarter that’s a record for UTC.
With three quarters of the year now in the books we can look back at a pretty good start 4% organic growth and earnings per share up 11% year-to-date excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
As a result we remained confident in our 2014 EPS expectation of 675 to 685 as earnings growth of 9% to 10% on sales of about $65 billion.
Okay.
Turning to slide two organic sales.
You can see organic sales grew 5% in the quarter with solid growth across all five of our businesses.
In the commercial businesses we saw 5% growth in the Americas led by 9% growth in North American residential HVAC as the U.S.
economy continues to improve.
In Europe where the economic recovery is uncertain organic sales were up 1% in the quarter.
The commercial businesses also saw 7% growth in Asia.
In China specifically sales were up 9% led by Otis which was up 12%.
Shifting to Aerospace for the first time this year we did see growth in the military business which was up 3% led by development programs at Sikorsky and solid growth in commercial OE and aftermarket continued where overall sales increased by 9%.
Okay.
Slide three.
Let’s take a closer look at our end markets.
Overall trends remained positive for a majority of our portfolio.
And just a reminder we’re going to talk to the commercial businesses on a constant currency basis as we typically do.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see momentum in North America.
U.S.
consumer sentiment reached to 14 months high in September on employment gains and optimism over wage growth.
As I mentioned before North American residential HVAC sales were up 9% in the quarter and orders were up a multiple of that very strong but driven primarily by early order activity ahead of the [014] standard change that goes into reflected January 2015 for the southern and western regions of the U.S.
Positive ABI trends continue and the outlook for commercial construction remains encouraging.
And we saw proof of that in Otis where the North American new equipment orders were up almost 60% in the quarter.
In Europe a little different story Europe zone PMI was 14-month low although it did remain in modest expansion territory.
And economic sentiment fell to a 10 month low in September as concerns over the economy increased.
We’re obviously keeping a close eye on the economic situation in Europe and we saw mixed orders there in the quarter.
Commercial HVAC orders were actually down 11% although we did see 15% growth in commercial refrigeration and fire and security product orders grew by 12%.
Shifting to China and Otis new equipment orders were flattish versus the prior year reflecting the lower conversion of pipeline opportunities to book orders.
However new equipment backlog continues to remain strong at Otis and up 14% versus the prior year.
Orders for CCS commercial HVAC and fire products were both down slightly in the quarter.
Earlier this month in a move to bolster the housing market the Chinese government cut mortgage rates for second home buyers and lowered down payment rates to 30% from 60% to 70% previously.
This actually marked the first time since the 2008 2009 financial crisis that mortgage rates were reduced in China and signals the government’s continued willingness to use fiscal policy to support growth.
While we continue to expect growth in China will moderate it should continue to outpace global GDP.
And our Building and Industrial Systems businesses remain well positioned in the region.
Moving to Aerospace with robust airline profits and ongoing growth in air traffic we continue to see solid conversions of our original equipment backlogs and growth in our commercial aftermarket businesses.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were up 7% in the quarter and large commercial engine spare orders were up 1%.
In our Aerospace Systems business commercial aftermarket sales were up 10% and commercial spares orders were up 11% reflecting strength in both parts and provisioning.
You’ll notice on that chart that we’re highlighting the new metric beginning this quarter that is commercial aftermarket sales for both Pratt &amp; Whitney and Aerospace Systems to better reflect the evolving business model from a transactional parts sales business to a comprehensive service business.
We’ll talk a little bit more about that on slide four and you can see that illustrated for Pratt.
Ten years ago only 10% of our engines were covered under our fleet management program or an FMP.
As you can see we’ve migrated last year about 50% of the Pratt fleet was under an FMP.
And this is going to continue to increase with time.
The next generating engines the GTFs were up about 80% of those engines covered under FMP or fleet management program.
This creates value for our customers the airlines as well as Pratt &amp; Whitney.
We’re incentivized with the airlines to keep the engine on wing as long as possible and to improve reliability.
As we’ve entered into these FMPs our customers have seen a significant improvement in reliability of the engines because we were able to maintain those engines at an OEM standard.
So over time we’ll see a gradual decline in the transactional spare parts business as the legacy fleet starts to retire.
The good news is that you’ve got the V2500 fleet and the new GTF fleet replacing those spare part sales with FMP sales.
So again a changing business model and we’ll continue talking about aftermarket sales growth going forward for both Pratt and Aerospace Systems as it’s a more meaningful metric.
Taking a closer look at the third quarter results total sales reported increased 5% that’s all organic segment operating profit was up 8% and operating margins increased by 60 basis points including the benefit from pension.
CCS saw the benefit from organic growth and cost reduction initiatives where operating profit grew 9% leading to margin expansion of 110 basis points.
Pratt &amp; Whitney Aerospace Systems each expanded margins by 130 and 110 basis points respectively.
Earnings per share of $2.04 that’s up 32% and of course that benefits of a $0.22 of favorable one-time items net of restructuring cost in the quarter.
Recall the third quarter 2013 have $0.08 of net restructuring charges.
So absent o the impact of these items of both 2013 and 2014 earnings per share were up 12%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 83% of net income.
Capital expenditures were $415 million and that’s up 8% versus last year as we continue to invest for the ramp up in commercial aero.
And investment and working capital grew in the quarter as well.
We acquired $425 million of our stock under our share repurchase program and we now expect to buyback another $400 million in the fourth quarter and that will bring share repurchase to a total of about $1.5 billion for the year.
Let’s stop there now.
I’ll be back to talk more about the full year and provide a glimpse of how we’re thinking about 2015.
But first let me turn it over to Jay to take you through the segments.
Thanks Greg.
Turning to page 6 order sales improved 4% in the quarter led by a high single-digit new equipment sales growth most notably in China in the Middle East.
Service sales were up low single-digit overall with solid mid single-digit growth in our businesses outside of Europe where we saw a slight decline in service sales in the quarter.
Operating profit was up 3% at constant currency.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contribution from volume and net productivity offset by continued pricing pressure.
New equipment orders were up 4% in the quarter.
New equipment orders in China were flattish reflecting a slower conversion of jobs in the pipeline to actual book business.
We were encouraged by results in other areas especially the Americas where orders were up sharply for both the quarter and year-to-date whereas new equipment orders in developed Europe were up mid single-digit in the quarter.
The recent strengthening of the dollar is creating headwind on Otis profit and we now expect profit to be up $50 million compared with previous earnings growth guidance of $100 million to $125 million.
On a constant currency basis we still expect Otis to grow profit by about $100 million for the year.
On slide 7 Climate Controls and Security increased profit 9% in the quarter and 3% higher sales.
Margin expanded by 110 basis points from prior year to 18.2% continuing the CCS momentum and margin expansion.
Organic sales were up 4% with growth reported by all regions.
We saw strength in the Americas with the residential HVAC business reporting 9% growth and commercial HVAC up mid single-digit.
Outside of the U.S.
both EMEA and Asia reported low single-digit growth.
Commercial refrigeration was up mid single-digit while Transicold was up slightly.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contribution from organic volume as well as benefits from restructuring and integration savings.
CCS global equipment orders were up 5% excluding the impact of the shift in order timing driven by the pending U.S.
regional cooling efficiency standard change.
Orders for global fire and security products were up high single-digits more than offsetting flattish fire and security field businesses.
Transicold orders were up low single-digit.
Based on year-to-date results we continued to expect profit growth of $225 million to $250 million for the full year at CCS on low single-digit organic sales growth.
Turning to Aerospace on Slide 8; Pratt &amp; Whitney delivered solid results with 15% operating profit growth and 5% higher organic sales resulting in a 130 basis points of margin expansion.
Higher aftermarket sales across the businesses including 7% combined growth in large commercial and Pratt Canada aftermarket more than offset declines in military OE.
Operating profit was driven by higher commercial aftermarket sales favorable pension and restructuring benefits which more than offset higher E&amp;D.
The quarter also benefited from favorable aftermarket contract performance and licensing agreements which exceeded similar benefits from 2013.
Large commercial spares orders were up 1% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially building up the 7% sequential improvement in the second quarter.
Year-to-date overall commercial aftermarket sales are up high single-digit as industry fundamentals and demand remained solid.
This supports our full year sales growth expectation for the commercial aftermarket business of up mid single-digit despite more difficult year-on-year compares as we close the year.
Given the strong year-to-date performance we now expect Pratt &amp; Whitney’s operating profit growth to come in at the high-end of the previous guidance range of $175 million to $200 million on low single-digit sales growth.
UTC Aerospace Systems recently celebrated the second anniversary of its formation following the July 2012 acquisition of Goodrich.
We are proud of the way that teams come together to integrate the businesses while improving on our already high level of customer service as well as delivering over 350 million in run rate synergies in just over two years.
In the quarter aerospace systems continued to deliver strong results with operating profit up 14% on 7% higher sales.
Commercial OEM sales were up 8% as we continue to benefit from growth in new programs such as 787 and A350.
And commercial aftermarket increased 10% while military sales improved for the first time this year up 2% versus 2013.
Profit growth was driven by higher commercial volume continued synergy traction and the benefit of lower pension expense.
Operating margins increased 110 basis points to 17%.
Commercial spares orders increased 11% in the quarter with strength in both parts and provisioning.
Overall commercial aftermarket sales are up 10% year-to-date.
For the year UTC Aerospace Systems now expects profits of $325 million to $350 million from our previous expectation of $300 million to $350 million on mid to high single-digit sales growth.
Turning to Sikorsky on slide 10 operating profit decreased by 11% and 5% higher sales.
During the quarter Sikorsky shipped a total of 54 aircraft including 39 based on military platforms and 15 commercial.
The sales increase was driven primarily by development programs as well as higher international military and commercial OE volumes partially offset by lower aftermarket and U.S.
government OE volumes.
The operating profit decrease was driven by unfavorable mix in our military business the impact of lower aftermarket volumes and the absence of prior year favorable contract adjustments which more than offset benefits from pension lower engineering spend and cost reduction actions.
For the balance of the year we anticipate stronger profit growth from higher volume and continue to expect operating profit growth of about $25 million on low single-digit sales growth.
Earlier this month Sikorsky unveiled the S-97 Raider prototype featuring X2 technology.
And we are pleased to announce that the Sikorsky Boeing team was selected to continue development of the Sikorsky Boeing Defiant Demonstrator aircraft with first flight expected in 2017.
We believe our technology is well positioned for the next generation future vertical lift program.
With that let me turn it over to Greg for wrap up.
Thanks Jay.
So in summary I think all we can say is that really solid quarter for UTC and what the difference a quarter mix.
You’ll recall the second quarter there were some concerns around organic growth and development program execution.
I hope that we put all that to rest with our performance this quarter where we saw solid organic growth across each of the businesses with good bottom-line conversion and key development programs on track as well as major program awards which will drive top-line growth in our businesses four years to come.
Just take a minute and highlight a couple of the big wins in the quarter.
As you know of course Pratt &amp; Whitney and our Aerospace Systems business supported the maiden flight of the Airbus A320neo aircraft now on September 25th in Toulouse.
All of our systems including the geared turbofan engine performed well on this historic flight.
We’re confident that the plane test program will further validate the performance characteristics for reduced noise lower emissions and significantly higher fuel efficiency; and we look forward to the continuation of that successful test program.
I’m sure you also all saw the announcement from Gulfstream last week.
We’re delighted to see the introduction of the PW800 engine for the new Gulfstream G500 and G600 long-range business jets and yet another platform for our engine business.
The PW800 engine is optimized for long-range business jets ensures the same proven vigorously tested core technology used in Pratt &amp; Whitney’s award winning pure power family of commercial engines.
We’re equally pleased with the Aerospace Systems content.
We’ll provide several critical systems for these new business jets.
The Building and Industrial Systems businesses also had a solid third quarter with Otis and CCS delivering 5% and 4% organic sales growth respectively.
As you know the third quarter marked the one year anniversary of the formation of our Building and Industrial Systems business and integration activities continue to progress well.
In the quarter we saw another example of revenue synergies in Australia to Sydney Airport.
At Sydney Airport Otis has had a long-term maintenance contract which allowed CCS to win a contract covering the installation of detectors fire indicator panels and emergency warning systems across one domestic and one international terminal in a five year service contract for maintenance and repair work across the airport site.
BIS does work.
As you can see each of the businesses is well positioned in our core markets we’re delivering real value to our customers and securing key orders that will drive top-line growth well into the future.
All right.
Take a look at the rest of the year.
As you know the compares will get tougher in the fourth quarter but order and end market trends through Q3 continued to support our expectation a 4% organic sales growth for the full year.
As I mentioned in the start of the call Q3 gains were stronger than previously anticipated and this was driven mainly by U.S.
tax settlement that closed a few weeks earlier than expected moving gain from Q4 to Q3.
We continue to anticipate that net one-time gains or restructuring costs will offset for the year.
And we see the path to the high end of the range of 675 to 685 although there is some pressure given the recent strength of the U.S.
dollar.
For the year we continue to anticipate debt pay-down of $1 billion and we now expect share repurchase of $1.5 billion up from our prior expectation of $1.35 billion.
And we expect the M&amp;A spend will be a little less than $1 billion.
Year-to-date free cash flow is 82% of net income and cash is generally strongest in Q4 as you know.
We expect free cash flow of about 90% of net income for the full year of 2014.
Okay.
Moving on to slide 12 let’s take a look at 2015 briefly.
As we move to any year of course there is some positives out there there is some headwinds and a lot of question marks but let me touch on a few of the big ones here.
A couple of things that we know are going to be headwinds next year commercial aero OE margins both at Pratt &amp; Whitney as well as in aerospace systems business.
As we ramp up production on the GTF we’ll see some margin headwind at Pratt.
We’ll also see a little bit at aerospace systems as production rates increase on the new platforms.
And as you would expect the margins on early units going out the door are pressured with the learning curve.
These are great long-term programs and point to a bright future for both Pratt and our aerospace systems business and are key building blocks for our long-term strategic plan.
On the military side the biggest issue here is the C-17 program.
Pratt as you know supplies the engines of the C-17 for Embraer aircraft.
Volume that will decline this production ends next year.
So that will be a headwind as the F135 Engine production has not yet ramped up.
Looking at the middle column here some questions; first of all what happens in Europe? When do we see a sustainable recovery there? Emerging markets now we put China in that category.
You know they will grow the question is how much will they grow? Pension as you know was also a big driver of UTC and if we were to snap the line at the end of September the discount rate was 4.2% and it will give us a headwind of about a $160 million next year.
As you know every 10 basis points of discount rate change there is nearly $30 million of earnings impact year-over-year.
On the positive side the pension portfolio has performed well and should offset the discount headwind of 4.2.
I put it in the question mark column because it’s too tough to call when rates will be when you snap the line on December 31st.
We also expect the new mortality rate tables to be introduced in the coming months.
While it’s great that we’re all living longer this does increase pension expense by about $180 million a year.
Just not clear yet whether this starts next year or the year after.
So we’ve got a question market as we sit here today.
In the plus column first of all we think the U.S.
economy will continue to recover even if the phase is slightly rising interest rates.
And our businesses have good solid momentum here.
Commercial aero aftermarkets as well as the business of general aviation should continue to benefit from solid fundamentals and of course cost reduction.
Since 2009 and through the end of the last year we’ve done some $2.6 billion of restructuring.
We’ve got another $375 million this year which will give us a couple of $100 million of tailwind into 2015.
So as always some pluses some minuses and a few question marks as we look towards next year.
As we see here today in this challenging and uncertain macro environment earnings for next year look to be around the mid single-digit mark but it’s still early and we continue to work on the plan for next year.
We’re executing the long-term strategy that we presented earlier this year at our March Investor day.
The portfolio is well positioned to take advantage of the urbanization and commercial aerospace megatrends through the end of the decade and beyond.
The investments that we’re making today position us for sustainable earnings growth well into the future.
We’ll continue to leverage our industry leading franchises in global sales and we believe we’ve got the right strategy right portfolio and we’ve made the right investments to continue to drive sustainable long-term earnings growth.
With that let’s open up the call for questions.
Stephanie? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Hi Carter.
Good morning Just a couple quick ones.
First with the decline in the service sales in Europe at Otis.
Was that related to pricing or something else? I think you’d said previously that the pricing had kind of stabilized there; did that change given the change in the macro environment there? Yes Carter we still continue to see some pricing pressure there; it’s moderated from what we’ve seen in the past couple of years but there is still a little pricing pressure on the portfolio.
I think we’ve done a pretty good job in terms of stemming the tide there; we’ve got some new programs out there trying to be a little more aggressive in terms of the retention of the portfolio but still a pretty tough environment on the service side.
Can you characterize the magnitude of the pressure relative to what you’ve seen in the past couple of years? Yes you’re talking less than a penny in the quarter of pressure from pricing.
Okay great.
And then with respect to SEER-14 transition and the order trends that you talked about can you help us think through beyond the order trends in terms of production and shipments and how that impacts Q4 versus Q1? My collection was that you -- this was whenever -- they could be manufactured in Q4 but shipped in Q1.
How are you thinking that that’s going to work out as the year-end purchase? Yes I think that’s exactly right.
I think we saw a really really strong order growth on the resi side and we don’t actually think that that’s indicative of what’s going on in the market; it’s probably closer to the 9% growth that we saw on the sales for the quarter.
The plan as we see here today of course is to manufacture all of these SEER-13 units that have been ordered and most of them will sit in inventory through year-end and we’ll ship them into the first and second quarter of next year.
So you’ll have a more I’ll say steady state in terms of what the market really looks like as opposed to 2005 where we had the big like 1 million unit pre-order across the industry and there was huge shipments in the fourth quarter.
We’re not planning to do that.
That obviously has an impact on inventory of probably 150 million or so of additional inventory that we’ll see on the books at year end.
But the fact is we don’t want to push this out to the distribution if the ruling that it’s just going to sit on the shelf.
So again good solid order growth rate.
We think again share is with the remaining work that we expected to be.
So there is no big bump this year in the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks Greg.
I’ll pass the mike.
Thanks Carter.
And our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just on the aerospace businesses I think R&amp;D had been up; company funded about 4% in the first half a lot of that was in UTAS.
And you talked before about flat R&amp;D for the year as a whole.
So I just wondered how is R&amp;D in UTAS in Q3 and how are you thinking about it for the next sort of 12 months.
Yes.
In fact if you think about the plan going into the year was that E&amp;D was going to be relatively flat.
I’ll tell you that’s not going to happen.
It’s probably going to be up about $100 million across all of UTC and really that’s the aero units.
The big increase in the quarter that we saw I think was about almost 50 million.
That’s all Pratt &amp; Whitney.
UTAS was relatively flat year-over-year in the quarter but we’re going to continue to see a little of additional E&amp;D into the fourth quarter but I think about that as 100 million or so year-over-year.
And then again benefit next year as we expected that to go back down to prior year’s level.
Thanks.
And then at Pratt restructuring the last six months has been very low even though the two minus points you call out in the 2015 outlook both pertain to Pratt.
Again keep in mind Pratt has done a significant amount of restructuring in the last three years.
It did a 20% across the board reduction on SG&amp;A at the beginning of last year.
We continue to take cost out closing for space both in Canada and here in the U.S.
So I think they have done what they needed to do from a cost reduction standpoint in terms of the back office and the factory footprint.
The cost reduction focus today at Pratt is all on the new products going out the door.
So again I think you won’t see big restructuring dollars but what we’re doing is obviously focusing on GTF cost reduction to hit those target costs that we have out there as the production ramps.
Thanks.
And just very quickly you don’t call out anything on the balance sheet in the 2015 outlook but I guess share count is a small tailwind exiting this year.
Anything else you’d like to say on the balance sheet for ‘15? That’s a little early; I think Louis will probably talk about it.
The only thing I would point out that is obviously share count will probably increase a little next year absent share buyback because of the -- what we call those? The convertibles MSUs that are out there so we’ll issue I think 11 million shares 1st of July.
Obviously we’re going to probably have share buyback that will try and offset that but full year share count might creep up a little bit next year.
All right thanks.
Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Good morning Rob.
Greg I was wondering if you could carry on the previous thing wondered if you could talk about your plans of debt retirement and any sort of impact that could have on the income statement next year.
So again we have some debt that’s coming due I think in May that’s of 6% no doubt there.
The thought is that again we probably just refinance that on the short-end with commercial paper.
So again we’ll pay down a $1 billion of debt this year just exactly as we had expected to do.
But next year I wouldn’t expect to see further debt reduction.
Okay.
And then on the commercial aerospace aftermarket in the past you’ve given us a little bit of a breakdown of Pratt in terms of the trends you’ve seen in the B2500s versus the wide body engine I was wondering if you can give us that again? And also at UTAS I was wondering if you could break out how much the provisioning might have added in the quarter? Thank you.
Sure Rob.
On for spares in terms of the orders the B2500 was up the PW-2000 was up and the PW-4000 was down.
As far as you can see aerospace systems as far as orders both the parts and provisioning were up around the same amount of the overall order rate.
And on the sales basis parts were up mid-teens were up high single-digits and provisioning was up over 20%.
Great.
Thanks Jay.
You’re welcome.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Jeff.
Greg if I heard you correctly so basically you are pointing us towards kind of mid single-digit EPS growth in 2015 obviously there is long list of pluses and minuses.
Just on the ones that you do have dialed in a little bit better I just wanted to make sure I was clear.
On pension are you telling us that asset issues offset discount rate and therefore the head one if there is one is simply on mortality table? That’s exactly right.
I think if we snap the line at the end of the September despite a lousy September in the market the pension performance is going to trump the discount rate down at 42 but snap the line today of course the discount rate is 4%.
So that’s I’m just going to ignore that for now.
The real issue is whether we adopt mortality tables; we’re waiting for them to be published.
If they get published this year we’ll probably adopt them.
If they get publish early next year we’ll wait and adopt them in ‘16.
And your comment about earnings growth next year assumes the mortality tables adopted? It assumes that the mortality tables adopted yes.
So right now it would be a headwind but I put it in question column because again it’s middle of October as opposed to middle of December.
So whenever we stand up we’ll obviously have some clarity there.
And it sounds like you’ve got a pretty good dial on Pratt margins or headwinds next year obviously unforeseen challenges on ramps can occur.
But can you give us a little bit more color on what you’re pointing us to there kind of what the ramp pressures look like I don’t know if you can express it in dollars or margin points or what? Maybe the best way to think of that Jeff is you’ve got a couple of big known headwinds that is negative engine margin that’s on the V2500 as well as the GTF primarily the Neo is that inner service at the end of next year.
And so we know that’s out there and it’s a pretty good size number and as well as the U.S.
military if the C-17 production stops we make good money out of that both on the OE and on the support side of that.
So that kind of goes way next year but you do have some offsets I think obviously the commercial aero aftermarket will be better Pratt Canada continues to get better you got good news probably on the E&amp;D front.
I think right now I would tell you that if Pratt will struggle to grow earnings if at all and that’s really the challenge that we have in the next couple of months is to understand.
Pratt right now is certainly there is no growth there and I think that is probably our biggest challenge for next year because of these big headwinds.
And just one more and I’ll move on.
So it had the questions in the discussions about aero ramp CapEx and working capital and you have some working capital noise in carrier here at quarter-end would you foresee conversion actually moving back above net income next year or what kind of net income be the reasonable bogie? I think net income is a reasonable bogie.
I think obviously like even this quarter we had 83% of free cash flow to net income we had about 400 million of gains or one-time items that flow through that had no cash impact.
So there is a little bit of noise outside of just the pension.
Obviously pension becomes less of a tailwind next year but also from a cash standpoint there is no cash coming in from pension good news anyway.
So CapEx going to come down a little bit next year.
So all in all I would say I think we ought to be targeting as we typically do free cash flow equal to net income always bumps in the road as we put the plan together.
But I’m pretty confident when Louis stands up he’ll be guiding towards that 100%.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next quarter comes from Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Joe.
Just a couple on Otis to start.
So the guidance for profit growth is lower exclusively because of currency or is there anything else in there? Currency is the biggest driver; it’s about $50 million year-over-year of headwind.
I think again the pricing pressure that we talked about in Europe earlier continues to be a bit of a headwind but it’s not the big driver really it’s primarily FX.
Again I would say Otis is recovering the Florence factory is doing much much better still some room to go there but there is no big operational misses here.
It’s really just pricing in Europe I would say in FX.
Okay.
And then on China on Otis China can you tell us about that unit orders year-on-year? Was that also flat or was there a change there? And maybe just provide some color on what you’re seeing more qualitatively as we head into Q4 and into next year of course.
So the units were up in the range of mid single digit.
So we continue to see growth in units year-over-year.
The other piece of it is we still see strong award activity and just as a reminder we do not record orders until receive a deposit.
So there has been a little bit slower converting the awards into booked orders from a cash conversion and deposit perspective but the activity still remains pretty solid.
I think keep in mind Joe the backlog still up 14% year-over-year so I think the sales forecast that we have for the year is solid.
And we should continue to see solid growth next year despite what is we all recognize a very or slowing housing market there.
The Chinese government is taking some steps here with reducing down-payments on second homes to try and stimulate some growth there.
But it will be challenging.
It is a 600 000 unit elevator market though just keep in mind it’s the world’s biggest bio-factory or probably five.
So it’s a huge market and the opportunity there as you know is going to be on the service side long-term and that’s really where we’re focused.
And I think service will probably grow 20% or so again this year after growing 20% in each of the last two years.
So the team is focused on service and delivering service across the entire region which is again a big challenge but that’s where the growth is going to come from.
Okay.
And then Greg I just wanted to clarify one item which is the Pratt guidance I don’t think I heard you say this specifically but are you guys going to stop providing guidance or color on spares specifically and just move to aftermarket because I understand longer run as you’ve moved to 80% type of pick up on service contracts that’s going to be maybe the more relevant benchmark but in the near-term the next couple of years just one-off spare sales are still going to be extremely important? We will be transparent on the spares order; we put it out there in the press release not trying to obfuscate anything but the fact is we know spares will continue to be growing or declining as the retirements kick in on the 4000 and the 2000.
So we wanted to put both metrics out there.
The point of this is that longer term we really need to start thinking about commercial aftermarket as opposed to just the spares because as you know the fewer spares we sell the better we are on the FMP contract.
So during the -- for the next couple of years we’ll continue to report both spares and commercial aftermarket; just understand again the point here is there is a transition here in the business model of Pratt that is significant.
And we think again an opportunity for Pratt long-term on the margin side.
Okay very good.
That makes sense.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
Just wanted to go back to one question you mentioned about China and the elevator mark and you talked about some of the stimulus.
I thought there are also some movement towards changing some of the world’s in terms of the aftermarket contract that might help the OEM do a little bit more.
So can you talk a little bit about where that stands and what your attachment rate has been in terms of some of the more recent selling there? Yes I think again this is a regulatory change that had started to get rolled out last year it’s been rolling out province by province.
This is a requirement that the OEMs actually do service on the elevators.
And as a result again you are seeing that the increase that we’re seeing in our aftermarket attachment.
I think we’ve got about a 135 000 elevators under service contract in China today versus 110 000 last year.
So we’re gaining good traction.
The regulatory change that will be slow to be adopted I would say across the country but it is a net positive trend for us.
Okay.
And then just on Sikorsky I was wondering if you could clarify something if you are going to generate $25 million growth in terms of adjusted profits this year it seem to imply a very strong fourth quarter.
I just want to make sure I understand that.
And related just want to -- if you could talk a little bit about the energy market the commercial helicopter demand right now? Yes.
That’s -- okay.
Well let’s just talk about Sikorsky; they’ve got a big fourth quarter as they typically do.
I mean we have about $2 billion of sales at Sikorsky in the fourth quarter.
So growing -- I don’t know they’re down a little bit year-to-date but the $25 million will be well within the reasonable range of what they can deliver for the full year again on a strong fourth quarter delivery.
As far as offshore oil we actually had a conversation with them yesterday about this.
They are seeing some pressure because of offshore oil and with fracking in the U.S.
growing so significantly we’re seeing less of the oil and gas exploration expansion.
We should drill in the big ramp up in commercial helicopters.
We’re going to deliver 40 S92s this year; we’ll probably deliver a couple of more than that next year.
Is there still a market for the helicopters it’s just we’re not seeing quite the same growth because of the prevalence of fracking here in the U.S.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just Greg I wanted just to go back to the ‘15 I guess framework and obviously a big question mark around the magnitude of the OE mix headwind.
And I’m wondering can you just put -- give us some sort of working range on that because it is a key to take.
And I’m wondering around that will there be an impact from the collaboration of accounting orders primarily just UTS.
And is there a second chance in ‘15 where you get the OE ramp up and the headwind but not a corresponding reduction in R&amp;D? Well I think again the R&amp;D is almost a natural reduction if you think about it.
We’re going to be done on C series flight tests we’ve got the engine certified the Neo engine certified you’ve got MRJ right we just rolled that out.
You’re going to see just a natural progression of E&amp;D coming down over the next few years.
Still have some spending out there you’ve got the Embraer E2 jets you’ve got your jet.
But should just be a natural roll down in E&amp;D to a more I’d say normal level.
As far as the commercial OE the headwind I guess the way to think of that is probably somewhere around $0.10 to $0.12 a share for next year maybe a little more than that but kind of in that range.
Okay.
And is that just key example or is that also including some collaboration accounting? It’s not collaboration.
There is some additional [Vs] some new [Vs] out there that weren’t included in the contract when we bought the shares so those new engines will go out with some negative margin as well.
Okay.
And then just quick one on pension Greg you mentioned possibly adopting the new timetables this year but does that put any incremental funding pressure for the next year if it does get adopted? No I think with the new pension rules that our friends in Congress passed we don’t actually have to fund until sometime in 2020.
I would tell you though we’ll probably fund its service cost level for the next few years.
As you know we have sunset the plan the old FAE plan and we took that really tough action back in 2009.
And that’s been paying off.
But as we switch to the newer pension scheme the cash balance then probably funding that at a normal more service level going forward.
So you think about $300 million or so of cash next year for pension funding in the U.S and probably a couple of $100 million for international.
Great.
A quick one on the euro rate for [4Q] what’s the euro rate you’re using for Otis in ‘15? Well I think we’re 127 in our current forecast which is right about where we are today.
It can drop a little with 128 yesterday; it came down a little today.
So and I think we’re in kind of in the ballpark now.
Recall last year going into the year we’re kind of in the 130 range and for the full year we were at 133 this year.
So there is some certain FX headwind year-over-year going into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks Greg.
Thanks Nigel.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Greg one of the things you talked about was the opening or the difference between restructuring and gains; could you refresh us on where you are then for the fourth quarter? Yes.
So we spent in restructuring $243 million not to be terribly precise; $375 million forecast for the year maybe we’ve got about a $132 million of additional restructuring teed up in the fourth quarter and that’s all subscribed; we’ve got plans in place to spend all of that.
And in fact there could be some additional gains in the fourth quarter; we’ll see what happens with the taxes.
We also got tax expenditures out there that could happen in the fourth quarter which might allow us to do some additional restructuring.
So as we talked about the plan for next year one of the keys is one additional cost reduction restructuring actions can we take to help ensure we have a decent plan going into next year.
So that’s where we’re going to focus on in the next couple of months is looking for additional restructuring opportunities.
And don’t be surprised if that 375 goes up a little.
Yes because the reality -- sorry the reality is that without that you’d actually do a little bit better than the high-end of your range for the year.
Yes.
So again I don’t think there is any -- look we’re going to stay within the range as I said before we have a path to 685 it’s a little tougher with this big currency headwind we’ve got in the fourth quarter but there is still a path out there.
But I would not look for us to significantly over deliver on the basis of additional gains.
No it wasn’t gain so much but the absence of -- I get it.
Just to stay for a moment on restructuring could you provide some indication of the successes you’ve had combining CCS and Otis internationally? I think the biggest -- from a restructuring standpoint the biggest success is I think about Otis has 2 500 branch offices out there.
And the ability to consolidate offices I mean it saves a lot of money.
I think Geraud’s got a target about of $300 million of savings from the synergy of collapsing the offices and running the business as not just Otis not fire and security and carrier but as BIS.
So you have one back office you have one management team.
Again sales forces are all different field service is different but you are getting synergies out of the consolidation of the offices.
And then just one last if I may when I look at your tax rate we call it 30% versus your peer there are other large multinationals they all have something that begins with high 20s.
Going forward is it possible that we could see a tax rate in the -- I’ll use 28% plus range.
Yes it’s hard to imagine us absent of course with tax reform power anything is possible.
And again I think that’s the real issue.
Our tax rate normally wants to be about 32%.
We do some tax planning that allows us get it to down to around 30% that’s primarily reinvesting foreign earnings.
But the fact is the rate wants to probably be around 30 absent to tax extenders.
You get the R&amp;D tax credit and the CSC it looks it will drop the rate about a point.
We’re obviously hopeful we’re going to see something in December from Congress on that to hopefully make permanent the R&amp;D credit because it’s crazy the way to spend money in anticipation of a tax law change.
So that’s an opportunity.
But again as the tax rules become more and more difficult and you’ve heard of this BEPS project out there where everybody is looking for additional tax revenue the tax authorities around the world are becoming more aggressive.
We’ve taken a relatively conservative view on the tax rate we can certainly drive it down for a year two but we’re viewing this it a little long-term; it probably wants to be 29% to 30%.
Thank you Greg very much for your time.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Hi Greg.
There was a comment in the press release on increased revenue synergies realized in building industrial systems.
I wonder if you can give a little bit of color behind that kind of substantiate the rational of the combination and also give us some color on the hunt for larger industrial M&amp;A.
Thanks.
Yes I think on the BIS revenue synergies obviously really the business has been together exactly a year here as of September 30th.
And we highlighted we had this project in Australia that would be bringing in some fire and security products some CCS product.
Last quarter we talked about project in Hong Kong we were able to bring Otis elevator contract.
In the Middle East we’ve seen some good pull through where the legacy carrier business has a very good relationship in the Middle East were able to bring in some the Otis elevators and win some relatively larger awards.
But these are all kind of one-off today.
I think the whole focus here of managing this as a BIS organization is to make that more routine as opposed to one-off.
And I think that will take some time we’re certainly getting some market acceptance today.
And as we talk to developers we’ve talked to the building owners; they see the benefit of BIS versus the individual businesses going to market.
So we’ve got a key accounts leader in place today for the U.S.
we’re working that internationally.
So again there is momentum building here.
I think when Geraud stands up in March next year; he can share some more of the wins with you then.
Are you looking at something like combined capture rates or buying bid rates I mean is that the way you’re internally looking at the metrics? Well the metric I actually have seen the exact business review tomorrow with BIS.
I’m going to actually see the new metrics that we -- and obviously we’re looking at this more holistically as opposed to just order rates at Otis or order rates at fire and security or carrier.
Again we’re trying to protect this from a top down level with the customer.
So I’m going to actually see what the new metric is going to be we can come back to you with that.
M&amp;A the hunt for the big fish.
We’re still fishing.
Like I said I think back a couple of months ago; the pipeline is not terribly robust.
There are opportunities out there obviously on the commercial side.
We’re focused on building out the building side and the system side; continue to look for opportunities there.
But the market has been tough.
As you know equities have grown up quite a bit.
Prices are very difficult.
And even with the recent price correction if you will we haven’t seen M&amp;A prices correct along with the rest of the equity market.
So we’re going be disciplined.
We’re going to be patient; we’re going to look for properties in the core.
Obviously the focus is on the commercial side not to say we wouldn’t do an aero deal if one came along.
But the pipeline is not terribly full but we continue to spend a lot of time looking at various opportunities.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next quarter comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
A couple of quick questions Greg.
Pension income I assume was about $0.09 a share this quarter $125 million or so? Yes it sounds about right.
And then I want to follow-up a little bit with Pratt because if Pratt cuts like maybe $50 million of the pension income you still had profits at Pratt up 20 plus million year-over-year despite R&amp;D up $50 million and spares up $7 million I mean that obviously offset some of it.
But it still seems like there had to be some strong performance elsewhere to get the number as good as it was.
So I just wonder if you could provide a little bit of color I mean D2500 engine deliveries are probably a little higher this year than last year so? George we saw a nice growth in Canada I mean that was up low double-digits both in OE as well as the aftermarket so against and also strong with the spare parts business.
So Canada contributed as we saw as I said we also had strong performance under our contracts and we saw a benefit there in the range of about couple of pennies and so those contributed.
And again as we talked about we think it’s -- we cannot see some benefit from cost reduction and restructuring.
So all that taken together this helps really offset that higher E&amp;D in the quarter as well as margin pressure.
The OE business was up a little bit and the large commercial business but really not a significant factor.
And Jay you said that spares were up combined 7% Pratt Canada and large Pratt was it about equal or both? That was the total aftermarket was up 7% not just the spares but on a sales basis Pratt’s the large commercial spares were pretty much flat and the spares at Canada were up high-teens.
Okay.
Okay thanks a lot.
Hey George thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
Greg on Otis China you talked about services and that’s clearly long-term the target here but as services grow how should we think about margins on that given that in the early couple of years these elevators are under warranty and you don’t have the scale you have in Europe or in the U.S.
Yes I think Doug you hit on a key issue with service.
Today the margins on service are not much higher than what they are on the OE side although they’re still very good.
The opportunity obviously long-term as you get root density across China as we build out all of these branch offices and add all these service technicians margins should continue to improve.
It’s not clear we’ll ever get to develop country type margins and service but there is still opportunity here.
Again I think the idea here today is to focus more on getting the contracts and servicing the customers as opposed to margin expansion.
That will come naturally over time as we get more productivity from the sales for the field force.
Keep in mind; we’re adding 1 000 people a year to the service network in China.
And we’ve got to bring them in we’ve got to train them we’ve got to teach them how to service elevators and we’ve got deploy them out to the field all that is holding down margins in the near-term.
But again still a profitable business in China still good margins just not the kind of margins that we would expect long-term.
And then on Pratt when you look at 2015 and clearly for the geared turbofan the A320neo is the really big deal here.
But when you look at the CSeries how are you looking at in 2015 what are you looking at in terms of the trajectory of deliveries? And if that were to get delayed is that something that would have any kind of a material impact on your either revenues or margins at Pratt? In fact we’re delivering some engines this year; I think we’ll probably deliver the same number of engines roughly maybe a few more next year.
So it’s not a big driver of year-over-year margin degradation at Pratt.
And again we had some recent wins we feel pretty good about it the planes up and flying again.
And they should be on track to get this thing in service by the end of next year.
The bigger ramp will obviously come on the Airbus A320neo.
Again there will be huge volumes by 2017 where we could be delivering 500 plus engines a year from zero today.
So the CSeries itself you’re not -- that’s probably not -- the timing on that is probably not much of an issue for next year? We don’t see it as a big year-over-year driver as we sit here today.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Doug.
Our final question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning Greg Jay.
Good morning.
Just a quick one regarding update on the synergies you mentioned back to Howard’s question.
The Goodrich synergy if you remind us where they’re tracking to is in the number still I think $500 million that you had previously indicated and also if you could also give us an update on CCS synergies too? Yes.
So if you think about the synergies I think through last year we’d recognized about $270 million or so synergies is another $100 million plus this year.
We’re on track probably next year to deliver close to another $100 million of synergies.
And I’m sure there are more synergies beyond the $500 million but again I think talking about synergies versus typical normal cost reduction and other restructuring activities it’s very difficult as we get passed about the third or fourth year of the acquisition.
So we’ll talk about it this year and we’ll give -- we’ll talk about the tailwind next year.
And I think again we’ll hit that $500 million by the end of next year and then we are just going to keep going and continue to drive margins up.
You can call it synergies you can call cost reduction you can call it just what we do at UTC but we’re going to continue to drive margins up beyond that what’s the benefit we’re going to get from the $500 million of synergies.
In terms of the BIS synergy we talked about $300 million number not a big number this year maybe $50 million of savings between what we’re seeing in the segments.
And again the part of the issue where we still keep Otis and CCS separate from a reporting standpoint so when we close a CCS office that restructuring savings may show up there if we close an Otis office it shows up in that segment.
But again that will accelerate in the coming years as we continue with the consolidation process.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Greg.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for listening today.
We look forward to seeing you at our Annual Investor and Analyst meeting on December 11th in New York where Louis will give guidance complete guidance for 2015.
The IR team will be around throughout the rest of the day to take your questions.
So thank you very much and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today’s conference.
You may all disconnect.
And everyone have a great day.