Good evening and welcome to the United Technologies’ Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Paul Lundstrom [ph] Director Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC’s website at www.utc.com.
Please note the company will speak to results from continuing operations except where otherwise noted.
They will also speak to segment results adjusted for restructuring and one-time items as they usually do.
The company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other forward-looking statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC’s SEC filings including its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to two questions per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you and good evening everyone.
I appreciate everyone’s flexibility in accommodating our changed schedule tonight for the snow storm which is quickly coming upon us.
Let me start out and talk just briefly about 2014.
Then I am going to hand it to Akhil but as you can see from the press release that went out earlier this evening 2014 is largely in line with the expectations we laid out last month at our investor event in New York.
Before we get to the results so I would like to take a minute and introduce or reintroduce Akhil Johri our new CFO.
Akhil has been on the job for a few weeks now but you will recall he is a 26 year veteran of United Technologies recently out of sabbatical as CFO of our Pall Corporation.
He knows the business as well he is highly respected both within UTC and externally.
Needless to say we are excited to have him back on the team.
Akhil and Paul will take you through the results and I will come back with some thoughts on the year and 2015 before we get into the Q&amp;A.
Akhil you have the floor.
Thanks Greg.
It’s a pleasure to be back.
UTC reported 2014 earnings per share of $6.82 up 10% versus the past year and up 12% excluding the impact of restructuring and one-time items.
Sales of $65 billion included 4% organic growth with all five segments growing organically for the year.
Segment operating margins expanded by 90 basis points to 16.6% reflecting the benefit of volume leverage and cost control at CCS along with lower pension expense synergies and restructuring benefits at Pratt and UTC Aerospace Systems.
Free cash flow to net income was 90% for the year as we had indicated in December and we completed $1.5 billion of share repurchase.
Moving on to slide two top line growth continues.
Organic sales were up 4% in the fourth quarter.
Recall that Q4 of 2013 was our most difficult compare so we feel really good about 4% organic as we exit 2014.
In the commercial businesses we saw 8% growth in the Americas as the U.S.
economic recovery continues.
While Europe was up slightly Asia grew 7% but continued growth in China their sales were up 10%.
Growth in commercial Aero OE was offset by lower commercial aftermarket sales at Pratt and Sikorsky.
Military Aerospace was up 7% led by the timing of OEM deliveries at both Sikorsky and Pratt partially offset by a weaker aftermarket across the segments.
Taking closer look at our end markets on slide three and just as a reminder we will talk to the commercial business orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
So overall trends remain consistent with our expectations throughout the portfolio.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see good traction in North America.
U.S.
consumer sentiment reached its highest level in nearly eight years in December on lower gas prices and better wage and job prospects.
ADI trends remain positive and the outlook for commercial construction continues to be encouraging.
And this is evident at Otis where North America new equipment orders were up 20% and 40% for the year.
At CCS orders for U.S.
fire and security and U.S.
commercial HVAC equipment was strong up 18% and 12% respectively.
U.S.
residential HVAC orders were down slightly year-over-year following a very strong Q3 while sales were up 9%.
Europe was soft again in the quarter with commercial HVAC orders down 9% and Otis new equipment orders down 3%.
As you saw on Thursday the ECB announced a significant new quantitative easing program aimed stimulating economic activity in the region.
In China Otis new equipment orders were up 2% in the fourth quarter and finished up 6% for the full year.
New equipment backlog remains strong up 13% versus the prior year.
While we expect overall economic output in China to moderate it should still outpace global GDP and our building and industrial systems businesses continue to be well positioned in the region.
As a reminder however China domestic sales represent just about 6% of total UTC sales.
Moving to Aerospace revenue passenger miles continue to grow at slightly above the long-term trend rate.
And airline profitability remains strong.
At UTC Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were up 5% driven by continuing strength in spares.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were down 6% in the quarter on a tough prior year compare and in-line with our expectations.
Taking a look at fourth quarter earnings on slide four total reported sales increased 1% as 4% organic growth was partially offset by three points of unfavorable foreign exchange.
Segment operating profit was up 10% and operating margins increased by 120 basis points including the benefits from pension.
And we saw profit growth and margin expansion in all segments during the quarter.
Earnings per share of $1.62 were up 3% and included a $0.26 net charge from restructuring and other one-time items.
That’s about $0.24 related to the German tax matter that Greg discussed last month and $0.09 of restructuring that was partially offset by $0.07 of one-time gains in the quarter.
Recall that the fourth quarter of 2013 had $0.09 of net restructuring charges.
Absent the impact of these items in both years earnings per share were up 13%.
Free cash flow in the quarter was 119% of net income.
Capital expenditures were $557 million as we continued to invest for the ramp up in the commercial aerospace.
We acquired $405 million of stock under our share repurchase program and we made nearly $300 million in voluntary pension plan contributions in the quarter.
One other item to note in Q4 the impact from sudden significant strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against most currencies created a translation FX-related EPS headwind of about $0.04 entirely wiping out the small benefit we had seen in the first three quarters.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar has an even larger impact as we look at 2015.
As you can see on slide five the U.S.
dollar has continued to strengthen not just against the euro but against most of the currencies as well.
In fact at a $1 10 euro which is a little less than today’s rates we have almost $0.25 of headwind that wasn’t contemplated in the initial EPS guidance that we discussed back in December.
The incremental negative sales impact from translation FX is expected to be around $1.5 billion.
We also saw a further dip in the global discount rates for pension expense.
On our measurement date of December 31 the U.S.
discount rate was 3.9% about 30 basis points lower than expected adding to another $0.06 of EPS headwind net of slightly better asset returns and $200 million of cash contribution to the U.S.
pension plan.
So all together $0.30 or so of new non-operational headwind.
Based on this we are updating our 2015 sales and earnings expectations as you can see on slide six.
As always we remain focused on what we can control.
We are now targeting $3 billion of share repurchase at the high end of our prior range.
We will take additional cost actions and at the midpoint of the new range we now have no contingency.
Together these actions should offset half of the $0.30 headwind.
So we now expect EPS of $6.85 to $7.05 on sales of about $65 billion to $66 billion down from our previous expectation of $7 to $7.20 EPS on sales of $66 billion to $67 billion.
However to make it clear nothing has fundamentally changed in the health of the underlying businesses.
Just as we told you in December strong operating leverage across the business should still allow us to deliver segment earnings growth of $0.57 at the mid-point excluding the impact of foreign exchange and pension head winds in 2015 and with no growth at Pratt.
That's 8% growth operationally and we will work to rebuild some contingency as we move throughout the year.
With that let me turn it over to Paul to take you through the segment results.
Okay thanks Akhil.
We are now on page seven.
Otis sales improved 5% in the quarter at constant currency led by double-digit new equipment growth noticed most notably in China and the Americas.
Service sales were up slightly.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a five point headwind to the top line in the quarter.
Foreign exchange was also a profit headwind a full six points.
Operationally Otis performance in Q4 was solid with operating profit up 7% at constant currency.
Profit growth in the quarter was driven by contributions from higher volume and productivity initiatives most notably from strong performance in the Americas and in Asia.
We did see continued pricing pressure in the quarter both in Europe service and in China.
New equipment orders were up 12% in the quarter at constant FX.
Asia was up 16% driven by a large order in Singapore the Thomson Line transit project and we saw low single digit growth in China.
New equipment orders continued to be strong in the Americas where orders were again up double-digit and for the second year in a row we closed the year with double-digit increases in new equipment backlog.
For the full year operating profit was up 4% or about $100 million at constant currency on 6% higher organic sales.
FX translation for the year had a two point unfavorable impact on both sales and profit.
Turning to page eight Climate Controls and Security had good traction in the fourth quarter with 5% organic sales growth.
We saw strength in the Americas with residential HVAC and foreign security product businesses both reporting high single-digit growth and commercial HVAC up mid-single digit.
Outside of the U.S.
EMEA grew low single-digit and Asia was up slightly.
Commercial refrigeration was up mid-single-digit while Transicold was up high single-digit driven by solid growth in container and North America Truck trailer.
At constant currency profit was up 6% in the quarter driven by contribution from organic volume growth.
FX translation represented three points of headwind in the quarter.
Margin was up 50 basis points from prior year to 15.7% continuing the CCS margin expansion momentum.
CCS global equipment orders were strong up 11% in the quarter driven largely by Transicold which saw more than 50% growth.
Global commercial HVAC equipment orders were up mid-single-digit driven by the Americas.
Orders for global fire and security products finished the year strong and were again up high single-digit based on strength in the Americas and global fire and security field orders were up 5% with growth in all geographies including Europe.
For the full year operating profit was up 10% at constant currency on 3% organic sales growth achieving record margins of 17% up 130 basis points from prior year.
As Akhil mentioned we do see significant headwind from foreign exchange both at CCS and at Otis.
Geraud [ph] will come back in March to talk about specific guidance for those two units.
Moving to Pratt &amp; Whitney on slide nine Pratt delivered solid results in Q4 with 12% operating profit growth despite continued investment in E&amp;D and a 2% sales decline.
In the quarter 4% in military engines was more than offset by a 6% lower commercial aftermarket.
Recall that in Q4 2013 the commercial aftermarket business was particularly strong up 24%.
Operating profit growth was driven by favorable pension and restructuring benefits.
The quarter also benefited from better aftermarket contract performance which helped offset lower aftermarket volume in the quarter.
Margins were up 170 basis points to 13.8%.
For the year Pratt delivered organic sales growth up 2% driven by mid-single-digit growth in the commercial aftermarket.
Incremental investments in E&amp;D were more than offset by a tailwind from pension restructuring savings and a stronger aftermarket both from higher volume and better contract performance.
These led to operating profit growth of $200 million for Pratt with the 140 basis points of margin expansion.
This is at the high end of the original guide.
Turning to slide 10 UTC Aerospace Systems continued its strong momentum growing profit 17% on 5% higher organic sales in the quarter.
Commercial OEM sales were up 7% and commercial aftermarket sales increased 5% with strong growth in spares even on a difficult compare.
Similar to Pratt the commercial aftermarket had a very strong finish to 2013 which led to difficult Q4 comparison.
Military sales continued to be soft with the military OEM essentially flat and a low-single digit decline in the aftermarket.
Profit growth was driven by strong conversion on the incremental volume integration synergies and the benefit of lower pension expense.
Operating margins increased 180 basis points to 17.6%.
For the full year sales were up 7% and operating profit was up $327 million or 15% resulting in 130 basis points of margin expansion in-line with our original expectations.
The strong full year organic growth of 6% reflects the UTC Aerospace Systems' position in a large and growing commercial aerospace segment.
The earnings growth and margin expansion followed the continued successful integration of Goodrich which is now yielding run rate savings of $400 million with line-of-sight visibility to $500 million.
Turning to Sikorsky on page 11 operating profit increased 38% on 10% higher sales.
Sikorsky shipped a total of 72 aircraft in the quarter including 57 military platforms and 15 commercial.
Overall aircraft shipments were down five compared to the prior year but aircraft completion volume that's the aircraft customization that occurs following base line aircraft delivery those completions were up significantly driven primarily by international military programs.
We also saw growth in our development programs as a number of recently awarded programs including the U.S.
Presidential helicopter have begun their development ramp.
The operating profit increase was driven by the impact of higher international military volume better mix on commercial OE volumes and favorable contract adjustments partially offset by the drop through from lower commercial aftermarket volume and unfavorable mix in the military aftermarket.
For the year strong international military and commercial OEM sales coupled with the ramp of funded development programs drove sales 6% higher at Sikorsky.
Adjusted for restructuring and special items operating profit of $699 million was up 9%.
With that let me turn it back to Greg for the wrap up.
Okay thanks Paul.
So all-in-all pretty good year for UTC.
As you think about the business it has delivered solid margin expansion to 16.6% and we grew EPS 10% despite a slower than expected global economic environment.
Beyond the financial results we also continue to achieve significant milestones on development programs and to secure key wins for the future.
With the Goodrich integration now largely complete we recently announced the elimination of the propulsion and aerospace systems' organization.
Pratt and Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems will continue as standalone business units but now reporting directly to me.
This new streamlined structure better positions us to serve customers and to focus on ensuring a successful entry into service and production ramp up of our Geared Turbofan engine and the numerous aircraft systems designed and developed by the UTAS team.
At Pratt and Whitney the GTF engine completed FAA certification for the Airbus A-320 Neo platform on December 19th.
The certification marks a key milestone for the engine and the A-320 Neo program which remains on schedule to enter into service in the fourth quarter of this year.
And we continue to make good progress on the more than 35 new system programs underway at UTC aerospace systems.
In 2014 we achieved major milestones including the entry into service on the Boeing 787-9 and the certification of the A-350.
At Sikorsky another major win in the quarter.
India's Navy selected Sikorsky to fulfill the services maritime helicopter requirement and negotiations are currently underway with the Indian Navy to procure 16 S-70B Sea Hawk helicopters with an option for eight additional aircraft along with the complete logistics support and training program.
This represents a major step forward for Sikorsky in an important growth market and positions the business well for future opportunities there.
The Building and Industrial Systems businesses had another solid quarter with both OTIS and CCS delivering 5% organic sales growth.
We feel really good about the progress we've seen in both segments.
CCS organic growth has accelerated while delivering 290 basis points of margin expansion since 2012 and OTIS profits are growing again after a couple of very difficult years.
So good momentum across the board that's going to allow us to deliver solid organic growth in 2015.
The growth rate exiting the year gives us confidence in our sales assumption of 3% to 5% organic growth in 2015 and we expect continued recovery in our North American markets slight growth in Europe and moderated but still solid growth in China and Asia.
As Akhil mentioned we do have two headwinds this year that worsened since we spoke in December.
And as much as I like to I can't control the FX or the discount rates Akhil hasn't figured out how to help me with that yet.
As usual we'll do as much as we can to mitigate these headwinds and that includes leaning out the corporate structure and additional share buyback.
Lastly we continue to make progress with our portfolio review and as I promised we'll discuss this in more detail over the coming two months.
With that let's go ahead and open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Doug Harned with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey Doug.
When you described the changes in guidance for the year can you walk through how that rolls out across the four different businesses compared to what you talked about in December? Sure Doug.
I think for a more precise discussion we'll wait for the President to stand up and talk to you in March but conceptually you know where this falls right.
The FX headwind is largely going to be in the BIS space more heavily towards OTIS which has 80% of its sales internationally and the pension headwind is going to be more in the aerospace space where it will be 40% or so at Pratt and the rest around UTAS and a little bit on the commercial side.
The good news $0.15 which offsets half of that $0.30 headwind is going to be spread across on the cost reduction side across all the businesses a little bit and at the corporate office as well.
While the share count reduction benefit will be more at the corporate office as you’ll see a lower share count number.
And if you look at the operational improvement part of this so you're looking for -- and I am not sure how much of that $0.15 is operational improvements but could you describe the kinds of actions you're taking that perhaps you hadn't thought about back in December.
You might have thought about but weren't signing up for yet? I think obviously some of the announcements that have gone out over the last couple weeks were all part and parcel to this trend to lean the corporate organizations as well as lean out some of the structures that we have on the aerospace side specifically at the aerospace systems group.
You'll recall Doug at aerospace systems we had two guys running the business Dave Gitlin and Mike Dumais.
We've consolidated all of that under Mike.
He’ll be consolidating all the functional responsibilities over the coming weeks as well.
So we'll be taking out a significant amount of cost as we go through that.
And obviously eliminating Alain’s organization takes a lot across out at the corporate level some of which got allocated down to Pratt and UTAS.
So all of this really focused on leaning out the corporate and the overhead organization.
But does that mean that most of this benefit is occurring on the aerospace side as opposed to the BIS side? BIS has already been working on that as you know over the last two sort of integrations that you will first fire and security into carrier and then now OTIS with CCS.
There has been a significant reduction in the overhead and the management structures at those companies.
Yeah if you think about it Doug Geraud has done the commercial side what we're just doing now on the aero side like we've taken out over 100 executives first when we put fire and security in to Carrier put that together under CCS and then as we put the OTIS business under the BIS banner again more and more executives.
And so Geraud has already leaned out the overhead structure in those businesses and that's why you see the margins where you do for BIS why you see that very very strong margins a lot of that is just cost reduction.
Okay great thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon.
Welcome back Akhil.
Thanks Joe.
Actually just want to continue down that line there on the PAS elimination I guess of that structure.
Greg a couple of years ago when this was -- this organization was -- stood [ph] up I thought it was advertised as a cost saving measure and now it’s being advertised again as a cost saving measure when it goes away.
I am just wondering if you could explain a little more philosophically which is it? And then you mentioned BIS as well.
I am wondering if there is any larger scale changes that we might -- that might be possible on these lines in that organization as well? Well let’s talk about PAS.
I mean origin is this is only about a couple of years when we put Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand together.
This is July of 2012 the idea was we put PAS in to oversee the integration of those businesses and to drive the $500 million of synergy benefit that we were expecting on the acquisition.
And I would tell you for the most part that is complete.
We have got about $400 million of the $500 million done we have got line of sight to the next $500 million and more beyond that.
So I think Alain and that whole team did exactly what we asked them to do in terms of driving cost reduction across.
Not -- and it wasn’t really just the aerospace system we also did significant cost reduction at Pratt again leaning out the structure of Pratt to taking about a 20% reduction in the overheads at Pratt and Whitney over the last couple of years.
So they did exactly what we asked them to do but again time changes things and today with that mission largely complete I thought it was best to have Paul from Pratt and to have Mr.
Gitlin report directly to me.
It also gave me the opportunity to take a guy like Mike Dumais who did a wonderful job running his half of the aerospace systems and bring him into the corporate strategy group and let him help me with this portfolio analysis.
So this is a win-win I think again leaner organization more focused I get more line to sight to what’s going on in the business and the businesses get less overhead cost to worry about.
As far as BIS book again I would just go back to what I just said.
I think Geraud has been doing what we are doing on the aerospace side for the last three years there they started in 2011 where he put F&amp;S into Carrier again significant overhead reductions.
The whole idea here is again not to have a lot of overhead.
We don’t need that.
We want to decentralize the organization we want decision making close to the customer and not at the corporate center.
And my job is not to tell these guys how to run the business.
These guys know the customer.
Each one of the guys at OTIS at Carrier at Fire and Security they are out there on the front line still.
They just don’t have that same overhead structure above them and I think Geraud would tell he has got line of sight to lot more clearly as to what’s going on in the business as a result of what he has already done.
Okay.
And second question a major event this year is the ramp up of more work on GTF and you mentioned you got certified on Airbus.
Can you I guess speak about the industrial part of the ramp up that’s happening this year and maybe give some context as to when you really feel like you can say we’re heading where we should be on the learning curve from a manufacturing standpoint? And then secondly from a cash flow standpoint if there is anything we should know about the profile as you ramp up throughout the year.
Will that impact the company cash flow? So Joe let me just put it very simply.
We are not going to be done until we are done.
But this year we’ll build about 85 engines for the Airbus Neo platform.
Next year will be about 220.
We will double again in 2017.
And so again every time we double the engine production we are coming down a learning curve.
I think by the time we get to about the 250th engine which is towards the middle of next year we’ll be pretty close -- we will be closing in on target cost not quite there.
By the time we exit ‘17 I think we’ll be at or should be at target cost or somewhere close to that.
So lot of work to do between here and there.
As I said we’re going to get additional negative engine margin this year next year and the following year and then the run rate actually levels out because the number of engine levels out and we continue to come down the cost curve.
So we just did a whole review of the production readiness level at Pratt over the last week had some of the best folks around the business to take a look to make sure we are on track and well it’s not without risk.
And there is a lot to do.
We got high confidence that the Pratt guys will get around this and we’re going to be able to meet the production needs at Airbus as well as Bombardier as well as at Mitsubishi as well as with Embraer in 2018.
I mean a lot of work to do but a good process in place to make sure that we are going to get there at the right cost.
Just one minor correction Joe I think Greg said about 80 plus Neo engines it’s actually more like 40 something and -- for this year.
And then the other point on your cash flow I think there is clearly going to be some stress as you have seen in our numbers for the last year or two.
The Aero ramp-up does add to the CapEx number which has been above depreciation by a significant amount and that the number we watch very carefully.
Obviously you know our gold standard is to be 100% of net income as free cash flow and last year ’14 was not there.
We still have some pressure in ’15 as a result of that but we are going to work very hard to take out some other things like focusing on inventory and working capital to try and manage some of the CapEx requirements that exist in the business from the Aero ramp up.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Just on the cost side Greg or Akhil but thinking about raw materials cost you didn’t address that at all and I was thinking in parts of your business you could getting some substantial relief.
So maybe any color there and you know either hedges or something that are kind of delaying potential positive impacts? Yes sure Jeff.
Probably the biggest item is copper where you would expect a significant saving there.
We do hedge -- we are hedged about 75% of our 2015 requirements at over $3 $3.05 if you will.
So there is really limited impact that we will see in the later part with the significant reduction in the copper that has come about lately.
But there is definitely going to be benefit on the oil side the lower fuel cost both for jet fuels that are used by our aerospace companies as well as in the large number of trucks and service vehicles that we had we should see some benefits there.
We estimate maybe $50 million to $75 million of benefit which probably towards the later part in the year help us build a little bit of our contingency back.
On the other hand you know customers see the same papers that we do and the same reports that we do and there is likely to be probably a little more pressure on the pricing side because they will expect some of this to be passed through to them.
So we have got to balance both those things which is why we have not reflected that potential savings in our roadmap that you saw on page six.
On the other key notes steel and aluminum you are maybe not hedged per se but are you kind of indexed some contractual lock in there that you don’t get any significant immediate benefit also? Yeah there is actually a little bit of headwind aluminum right now.
Iron ores and steel prices have come down but we don’t really have a lot of hedges out there.
So we will see a little bit of benefit on steel a little bit of headwind at aluminum which should pretty well offset each other I would think for the year.
No I was just wondering just back to where the prior question ended kind of on cash flow and CapEx.
Now looks like you actually throttled the CapEx back pretty hard relative to the annual expectation here.
Can we go down from this 1.7 level in 2015 and how do we think about working capital in 2015? I think that we have been looking at about $2 billion number for CapEx going into the last year.
I think the folks on the businesses to do a pretty good job of reducing that and trying to move some of that out obviously puts a little bit of pressure on the 1.7 number that we have got this year but we are not done.
I think again the CapEx investments will be what it needs to be.
I think the bigger opportunity as I think about cash well it goes back to working capital and it goes back to inventory.
We have got almost $10 billion of inventory out there.
The churns are not spectacular and the focus has to be on improving churns and it’s batten [ph] our factories.
I would tell you our factories are world class.
When they get the inventory they can move it very quickly through the assembly and test process.
The issue is in the supply base where we don’t have suppliers that all deliver 100% on time with a 100% perfect quality.
As a result we have a lot of buffer inventory at every level of the production process.
So as -- one of the other benefits of eliminating the past structure the operations is now going to report directly to me and we have got a team under Benoît Brossoit who has very been focused on supplier process improvement and we are going to go after this inventory reduction at its root cause which I would tell you is supplier performance.
If we get our suppliers at the same level of delivery and quality as our own factories we can reduce inventory by a significant amount.
And it’s not at this year and next year the next several years.
But we're going to work at it.
And I think that will help us get back to that 100% of free cash flow net income despite where there is a little bit of elevated CapEx investment this year.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey Sam.
Some of the additional cost reductions that you have talked about does it change the plan in terms of the $300 million worth of restructuring offset by $300 million in gains.
Does that dynamic change at all during the year? No Sam.
We don't think so.
We still think restructuring will be about $300 million for the year and probably ratably across the quarters $75 million each quarter if you will.
Okay and then in total what is your assumption about Europe right now? I know Greg said slight growth but is it different than it was in December and it's just -- is it same and it's just a translation issue or have you assumed a slower growth at this point? Well despite the Greek elections on Sunday I think generally we think Europe will be probably a little bit better with the quantitative easing that Mr.
Dragi has initiated on top of the much lower fuel prices gas and oil.
There is a natural stimulus that we ought to see in Europe this year that we didn't really see six weeks ago when we talked about it so.
We say up slightly.
It could be better.
I mean we have pockets of bursts [ph] that was very good last year and the fire product side in Europe was very good.
The service side not as good.
I think overall I think we'll get better -- Europe will get better this year than what we had expected.
So that maybe a little bit of upside.
Okay and then last question.
The CR-13 and you just talked about inventory.
Was there any sort of build in terms of the last of the manufacturing what you could do this year and does that all go back out in 2015.
Can you size that at all? Yeah no I think Greg mentioned this at the last call or the last meeting about a $150 million worth of inventory build-up associated with CR-13.
As you know the regulations would say that we cannot produce anymore CR-13 in 2015.
So all that inventory was in our balance -- was on our balance sheet at the end of December and will be sold through the early part of this year we expect.
Yeah I think that's just for the -- those parts of the country that can’t -- we can't sell CR-13.
Right exactly.
So but yeah it’s not significant.
I think again we'll put a play out here in the first four or five months of the year and we'll go back to normal.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good evening guys.
And welcome back Akhil.
Thanks Carter.
Just a couple of end market kind of color questions for you.
The first on the military softness you called out at UTAS any color you can give us on where you saw that and I know the expectations around military have been kind of -- we've been kind of little short in both last year and some of the recent quarters.
Can you give us some color on where that came from? Not a huge deal of impact frankly.
I think both OEM and the aftermarket and military side for UTAS was down low-single digit.
So it's really not -- nothing dramatic nothing out of the ordinary.
As we look ahead at next year Carter I think the feeling is that the aftermarket might be actually slightly better maybe up low-single digit for UTAS while the OEM side will probably be down low-single digit.
So I think in balance we still feel it's kind of at treading water if you will nothing either positive or negative to talk about it.
Yeah in Q4 OEM was essentially flat military aftermarket was down a little bit.
Okay and with respect to Sikorsky if you were to give us a kind of real-time assessment on how things look there on the commercial Hi-Lo side given obviously the anticipated weakness in oil and gas.
And what the expectation is there for spares and what are you seeing and any color there would be helpful? And maybe just I’ll give you a high level Akhil can tell you the right numbers.
But essentially we're seeing some softness on the S-92 deliveries as you would expect like we got about 40 this year we had expected to deliver.
There is a little bit of pressure there some of the exploration companies are scaling back.
I just mentioned though the 80 more than 80% of the use of the helicopters for offshore oil is for current production It's not for exploration.
So you're talking on the margin yeah there maybe a few aircraft that will be little bit more difficult to sell.
But Mick and team I think are on top of it down there.
Aftermarket’s been little slower on the commercial side than we expected.
Part of that's because the reliability of the S-92 has been so good.
And the other part I think is just cash conservation by some of the operators.
Yeah no there are some as you would imagine a little bit of concern about the oil and gas related Hi-Lo market as you said.
But I know Mick and team are committed to delivering on their plan and they are not going to let small things like this come in the way.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Carter.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Just a question on the balance sheet.
I guess one of the advantages of having a very large balance sheet is that you can use it to offset surprise headwinds.
And I guess if I just pro forma that $0.15 of tailwind or offset in to the three buckets buyback is $0.05 of that.
So I just wanted to check what the urgency to use the balance sheet this year to drive earnings is? I don’t think there is any urgency other than the fact that we’re not going to sit still and just take and let these cost headwinds tank the year.
I think again we’re doing what we can to offset those.
And the $3 billion we talked about that back in December we said $2 billion to $3 billion I would tell you was range [ph] remaining low without I would say a very robust M&amp;A pipeline I guess is pretty easy to commit to the $3 billion today.
And again I wouldn’t suggest that there is a big use of our balance sheet.
We got a $92 billion balance sheet.
Obviously we have a room to do a lot more than an additional $1 billion if we wanted to.
We’re not going to commit to anything more than the $3 billion today but it remains an option if again share price remains low and the acquisition pipeline doesn’t show up.
The key thing that Julian just to keep in mind as Greg laid out very clearly we are interested in M&amp;A.
We would like to do some transactions.
The valuations sort of prevent us from going too far out on that today.
Greg very clearly laid out the criteria that we look at M&amp;A transactions with IRR or double-digit accretive in year two and neutral to ROIC for UTC overall by year four.
Those are tough criteria in today’s market but at the same time we want to keep our flexibility and keep our balance sheet optionality available and not go much higher on share buyback till we completely conclude on the M&amp;A environment.
Understood thanks and then just on commercial aero aftermarket as you said the trends in Pratt and UTAS on sales were both sort of lower than the high single-digit growth guidance for 2015.
So how quickly do you think you’ll snap back to that high single-digit trend? Is it something you could see at the beginning of the year and any impact you’re seeing on airline behavior on aftermarket from oil? Yes at this point I don’t think the trends were any different than what we expected.
Remember Q4 last year was extremely strong.
Pratt spares if I remember correctly were up 24% and the UTAS spares were up significantly as well.
So on that -- on 17% Paul tells me.
So on top of those strong numbers UTAS grew 5% and Pratt was down 6% or 5%.
So given that it’s really not a change in our expectations.
We still expect mid-single digit type of growth at Pratt and high single-digit growth in the aftermarket at UTAS.
So I wouldn’t call it a changing trend.
With regard to customer behavior obviously the expectation is that certainly on the Pratt side with the airline profitability being what it is we would hope for a little more content per visit when the engines actually come back and perhaps a little bit more provisioning and inventory build-up at the airlines and that should help us a little bit but it’s too early to call that.
Right thank you.
Thanks Julian.
Next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you and let me join in welcoming you coming you back Akhil.
So commercial aftermarket could you give us what the orders were in the fourth quarter for Pratt and UTAS? How much you think that might have been impacted by price hike and are you seeing anything in terms of impact from lower fuel prices yet? The answer to your last question not much yet on the Pratt side.
The spares orders were down about 8% or so for the quarter and that is again no surprises there.
Within that however I’d remind you that V2500s were actually up mid-single digit and decline was in what has been a secular issue for us which is the legacy engines the PW2000 and PW4000 where retirements are hurting and the surplus parts market is hurting our space business a little bit.
So no change there.
The trends continued to be where they are.
As I said earlier we do expect some benefit from the oil price reduction.
But it's not yet showing in our number and maybe at some point we'll get some benefit there.
On the UTAS side again the spares were -- orders were up year-over-year probably a little lower than what the sales were up.
So I think we are still on track there for the high single-digit growth.
Thank you and you mentioned that OTIS’ orders in China were up 2%.
As you are probably aware of the decline the monthly decline in residential home prices has kind of been accelerating through December.
What are you seeing in terms of tone? You talked I think in December of looking for 10% growth in constant currency in new elevator sales at OTIS in China.
Is that still realistic? Yeah Cai.
It's certainly within the realm of possibility.
If you think about it backlog at OTIS will end the year up about 13% year-over-year and we will convert probably 60% or 70% of that into sales.
So as we start the year in a flat market you would expect kind of 7% or 8% kind of growth in OTIS China.
We'll see.
Again there is obviously pressure on home prices.
We continue to see that which is really held orders down for the years especially the back half of the year.
But again I think there is a pathway towards double-digit if we see any recovery.
We're seeing some stimulus measures take hold seeing some bank lending regulations ease a little bit to try and again reinvigorate the property markets.
So I wouldn't give up on this.
I think there is still opportunity there but again just given the strong backlog when we end the year I feel pretty optimistic we're going to continue see growth in China.
Thanks so much.
The next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Greg I want to kind of be a little bit high level.
There is sort of two things.
One is restructuring and the second is capital spending.
How do you think about the two of those as you put them together to improve the profitability of the various business units? Well the margin expansion cost reduction is part of the DNA of UTC and that's not going to change I don’t care who is sitting in my chair.
That’s just the way we do business and the businesses are always focused on down taking cost out.
And so I think as we go into the year with this $300 million placeholder we've got plenty of opportunities to do cost reduction and probably more opportunities then there is funding as we start the year.
But again we always find ways to fund the really good ideas.
So we are going to continue on this path of cost reduction.
That’s just the way we do business here.
As far as CapEx we have been I would say overconsuming here but again it's all part of this I call the reseeding of the commercial engine business with new GTF engines and as a result we're going to have to catch up a little bit of the spending and that's not just Pratt.
It's also across the aerospace we have 50 new aircraft systems going into production here in the next few years requires a lot of capital.
So we're in a secular site [indiscernible].
CapEx is just naturally going to be high it will come down.
But frankly we're not capital constrained.
We were going to fund what we need to from a CapEx standpoint we were going to fund what we need to from a restructuring standpoint because they all have very very solid returns and we've got a good process internally where all of these capital appropriations as well as restructuring programs they come through Akhil finance organization they are reviewed they are validated and I think we're making solid investment decisions whether it's restructuring or CapEx.
I get it.
I mean it's really to drive the returns and improve the performance for competitive position.
The follow up I'm going to talk about maybe CCS for a moment.
I mean usually we find fire and security is the one that's more of the challenged business unit and this time I think there are some maybe elements of Carrier rather a pleasant surprise.
Could you talk about I mean could you talk a little bit about whether it's additional new product whether it's the market who have become more competitive or what's the other change there? I mean is it all or is it something else I've missed? I think you probably hit on it and then some.
I think again part of it is Geraud has invested a lot in new products in Carrier on the commercial HVAC side.
We're seeing that start to pay off.
We are spending more money on the security side both fire products and electronic security getting new products driving return of growth.
I also think the way we have organized the business again while we think about BIS as the central organization it’s really decentralized decision making out of the field where you have got people that are focused on individual markets individual countries that are driving decisions that are helping to drive growth.
And again as I think about 2015 while cost reduction will be important the real key to 2015 earnings growth is going to be top line growth and Geraud has a very aggressive plan out there but I think he has got the products and the people and the markets are going in his favor.
He can actually see 5% or 6% organic revenue growth this year.
And we’ll see where we are at the end of the year even with tough conditions in Europe and slow in China still feel very confident we are going to hit those numbers.
And if you were to ask Geraud Howard I am sure he will tell you that with the portfolio transformation pretty much behind in the fire and security space there is a lot more focus on looking at the growth opportunities and the growth markets and devoting the time and resources to make that we are capitalizing on those opportunities.
So we would fully expect that the growth profile for both fire and security and for the CCS business overall will be better than what you have seen in the past.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Howard.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thank you and good afternoon.
Just wanted to go back to the guidance for a moment in the prepared remarks you suggested that the FX headwind was going to be a $1.5 billion for the year and yet guidance has come down by about $1 billion at the midpoint? Just wondering if you can just provide a little bit more color on that and connect some thoughts? Sure Jason this is Akhil.
Yes the exact math is $1.5 billion on the top line from the change in currencies.
We typically don’t like to give guidance in decimal points this early in the year.
So whether it’s 64.5% to 65.5% or it’s 65% to 66% I would say probably in our new range of 65% to 66% it wants to be at the lower end of that range.
On the other hand to what Greg said earlier we are hopeful that the organic growth might come in little bit on the higher side of the range that we had before the 3% to 4%.
It maybe towards the higher end as opposed to the lower end of that.
So does it end being 65.5 or 65.3 too early to call but it’s -- we left a range in round numbers.
Okay great.
And then just a quick question on efforts to reduce the buffer inventory the $10 billion.
Can you talk a little bit about the reaction that you have seen thus far from your supply base and whether this will lead to consolidations amongst your supply base just how they are reacting to it? And then I don’t know if it’s in one business or another but maybe where the biggest opportunities might lie? Enthusiastic support Jason.
We have many really really good suppliers large suppliers.
So we can’t lump them all together.
I think the bigger suppliers tend to be the better suppliers and one of the things that we have been pushing in the supply base is consolidation of some of the second and third tier because quite frankly they can’t afford to invest in the technologies and the systems the way the larger suppliers are.
In terms of where the opportunities are I would tell it’s primarily on the aerospace side.
I think again as I go to BIS and think about supply chain at OTIS or supply chain at Carrier or Fire and Security pretty well developed and again a little bit different in terms of technologies but again their suppliers I think generally have performed better than the suppliers on the aerospace side.
I mean part of that is because of all the changes on the aero side but really most of work is going to have to be done in that supply chain on the aero side.
And if I may having grown up through some of those businesses it’s what happens is typically it’s not so much the issue is inventory driven by the suppliers it’s because internally nobody wants to hold up the line.
So when material planning people are concerned about a supplier performance they end up safety stock and that just builds upon itself.
So even if one part is going to be up you end having a lot more inventory in the chain.
So as Greg said once we can get all suppliers supplying on time with perfect quality that’s when you will see all that buffer inventory in our system start to disappear and we will get there.
Great thank you.
The next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey David.
OTIS North America new equipment orders have been really strong for about two years now.
Greg can you just talk on maybe give some color exactly what's going on there what do you guys see as kind of market rate of growth and how much share you might be picking up there and what do you really think is driving this outsized kind of growth that we're seeing? It's a couple of factors David.
Obviously OTIS is the ubiquitous brand here in the U.S.
and we have been gaining share back.
But it is also a market that's recovering although some very low numbers and we're still not even back to the 2007 level.
So while the recovery feels really good we still have ways to go on it.
I think OTIS has done a great job on the products side and as well as the cost side to deliver much better value to the customers and the customers value that.
The ABI has been improving as you see it's been over 50 now for the most of the past year and quite frankly we've also gotten our house in order.
You remember the -- some of the message we have in terms of the move from Nogales to Florence South Carolina that's behind us.
Again we're delivering product on time.
It's really good quality.
All those things coming together helping OTIS regain the share here in the US and again I think the party is not over.
All of the orders that we have been taking it for the last few years are going to come out and sales over the next two years and again I think OTIS North America is going to have a very good couple of years coming up.
Greg can you talk about how far you're still below prior peak levels in North America? As I recall 2007 we are about $1.2 billion in new equipment I think we are about $800 million $900 million maybe this year.
So you still got another 25% to go.
Okay great.
Business jet market I think Pratt Canada sales were [indiscernible] were a little bit lower in '14.
What are you seeing in that market we’ve got some players talking about things improving are you actually seeing any sort of underlying market improvement or is it just new product that shipping grew? It's more a weakness on the helicopter side of the business of the Pratt Canada engine market if you will right? And some of the things that we talked about before the operators have been a little gun shy in terms of taking new deliveries of engines.
There is some concern we hear about inventory at the operator’s levels.
People who are making those aircraft for the helicopter market.
So that's the space.
On the business jet side I think there is no significant change in trends.
We still -- the engine shipments were in line with our expectations probably just slightly ahead of the last year but it's primarily the turboprop and the helicopter market where we saw some weakness.
And Greg you mentioned the German tax case I think at the Investor day you talked about $400 million of potential cash tax cash payment is that still the right number and is that explicitly in the 90% to 100% free cash flow in that end? It's in the 90 it's not in 100.
So if you want to think about it 10% of free cash will be about $600 million.
So if we have to pay the German tax authorities before we have the case fully adjudicated you're going to see a lot of pressure on that 100 getting closer to 90.
So we're thinking about it we're still working it out the attorneys still tells us that we're going to win eventually.
But we may have to put up the money in the interim.
So we'll let you guys know.
See that's one place where the Euro weakening is actually good news right? Right got it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Dave.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks and good evening guys.
Hi Nigel.
It’s getting kind of late here So I'll keep this [indiscernible]? Got us snowing here.
It is kind of snowing.
So you obviously you have taken the maximum costs [ph] out which I think it's commendable but did he mention you're going to a 1.10 euro.
Yes that's correct.
1.10 euro okay that's been considered.
And then just obviously you mentioned in the second bridge that that’s gets taken within OTIS which makes $0.30 but how does the strong euro sorry the weak euro how does that impacts OTIS margins this year? The impact that we are talking about is more just from translation.
So I don't think that changes anything on an organic basis for the margins there.
Within Europe we still have the same operating fundamentals that existed.
There is still some pressure on the pricing side in the service business but there continuous to be improvement as we continue to help improve the total number of units under contract in Europe.
That was declining for a while and it's starting to stabilize and move in the right direction.
He was very focused on that.
But I think there is nothing changing as a result of the currency it's more just the… As you think about currency it’s simply a translation issue.
The fact is we manufacture in most of these locations where we sell.
So in terms of real economic impact it’s really muted by the fact that you manufacture be it in China or you manufacture in Europe.
So this is just a translation and going against right now.
We think 1.10 is the bottom but we'll keep look it.
Sure and just one more obviously Europe is mainly a service market.
So I was wondering if the translation of that high margin service in Europe this will see overall segment margin? Yeah there is a slight impact Nigel you're right.
but it's not that material.
There is some impact absolutely.
Okay that is on the -- I just want to talk to that.
And then just switching to obviously you [indiscernible] structure.
Does that imply that you haven't look at the BIS structure Greg and you're comfortable that that’s the currency [ph] that you focus.
Yeah look we've talked about this already a little bit on the call.
But I think Geraud has already done on the BIS side what we're doing on the Aero side in terms of reducing structure.
He's done it over the course of the last couple of years from 2011 through this past year end where we've been taking out executives and taking out structure as we've been consolidated the back office functions as well as the overhead structures of these businesses.
So I don't think there is the opportunity exists on the BIS side the same way it did on the PAS side.
Okay thanks guys.
Okay.
Well thanks to everyone for the [indiscernible] tonight to change the timing of this.
I hope everybody has a safe couple of days here with the coming snowstorm and we look forward to seeing you guys all in March.
The IR team will be available for a few minutes tonight and then all day of course tomorrow.
So please give us call if you have any questions.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen thanks for participating in today's program.
This concludes the program.
You may all disconnect.