Good morning and welcome to the United Technologies’ Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2015 Conference Call.
On the call today are Greg Hayes President and Chief Executive Officer; Akhil Johri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Paul Lundstrom Vice President Investor Relations.
This call is being carried live on the Internet and there is a presentation available for download from UTC's website at www.utc.com.
Please note except where otherwise noted the Company will speak to results from continuing operations and excluding restructuring costs and significant other items of non-recurring and/or non-operational nature often referred to by management as significant other items.
The Company also reminds listeners that the earnings and cash flow expectations and any other Forward-Looking Statements provided in this call are subject to risks and uncertainties.
UTC's SEC filings include its 10-Q and 10-K reports provide details on important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.
Once the call becomes open for questions we ask that you limit your first round to one question per caller to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
You may ask further questions by reinserting yourself into the queue and we will answer as time permits.
Please go ahead Mr.
Hayes.
Okay.
Thank you Kailey and good morning everyone.
As you saw in today's press release we reported full-year 2015 adjusted EPS of $6.30 that's at the high end of the guidance range that you gave for last year.
Sales were just north of $56 billion and segment operating margins were solid 16.7% for the year.
I'm pleased to say that despite a very tough macro environment we remain confident at our full-year 2016 adjusted EPS guidance of $6.30 to $6.60 a share that's on sales with $56 billion to $58 billion.
As I reflect back on 2015 we took a number of decisive actions and I'm encouraged by the progress that team has made on our strategic priorities.
First of all we streamlined the portfolio we simplified the organization structure and we returned $12 billion to shareowners and most importantly perhaps we achieved some key program milestones.
As you know we announced this and closed the sale on Sikorsky for very good price $9 billion and that generated a $3.4 billion after tax again in the fourth quarter and enabled us to initiate a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in November.
As a result of the divestiture UTC is now more focused on its core businesses that’s creating and supplying innovative and game-changing technologies for the building and aerospace industries.
Going forward this portfolio will have a better organic growth profile we will have higher operating margins and we will have stronger cash flows.
We've also simplified the organization we eliminated the proportion in aerospace systems layer and the building and industrial systems layer.
That creates a flatter more efficient structure with greater visibility and importantly greater accountability and we now have four focused business units that are well positioned to deliver long-term sustainable top and bottom line growth.
On the cost front we announced a $5 billion multiyear restructuring plan and that includes $400 million of restructuring we initiated in 2015.
And that restructuring is focused on enhancing the long-term cost competitiveness of the company.
We expect this restructuring plan to generate about $900 million in run rate savings by 2019.
We also returned over $12 billion to shareowners last year through dividend and share repurchases that includes the $6 billion ASR we announced in November.
After completion of the ASR this year we continue to expect to return at least another $3 billion through additional share repurchase plus more than $2 billion of dividends through the year.
Clearly the best M&amp;A opportunity we see right now is UTX stock we'll continue our share repurchase program as long as we feel there is a significant discount between the intrinsic value of the UTC and the share price.
While this program execution continues to be a top priority and we achieved several key milestones in 2015.
The Pratt Powered Joint Strike Fighter achieved initial operational capability for the marines back in July.
The A320neo Aircraft was certified a CSeries Aircraft was certified both with Pratt’s Geared Turbofan engines and a number of UTAS systems.
The Mitsubishi Regional Jet also had its first flight and the Embraer Air Engine began testing on our flying test bed.
These are programs that will drive growth for decades to come not only at Pratt but at our UTC Aerospace Systems business as well.
I'm glad to say that the dream of the GTF is now a reality.
The first Pratt &amp; Whitney powered A320neo was delivered last week to Lufthansa and entered into revenue service this past Monday And we’re meeting our commitments on day-one for fuel burn emissions and noise and the first time in aerospace history that an engine delivered everything it was supposed to do on day one.
That's a remarkable performance by both Pratt and Airbus and let me crystal clear we're extremely confident in the technology of the Geared Turbofan.
On the commercial side we continue to achieve key wins.
At Otis we won the Hudson Yards project in New York and the world's largest hotel the Abraj Kudai in Saudi Arabia.
The climate controls and security we secured the new Atlanta Braves Stadium in Georgia and the Sheikh Jaber Al Ahmad Cultural Centre in Kuwait to name just a few.
So overall I'm proud of our accomplishments in 2015 and as we move forward the priorities are largely the same that we laid out a year ago.
First of all flawless execution innovation to drive long-term growth structural cost reduction and most importantly perhaps disciplined to capital allocation.
We remain focused on what we can control which means controlling cost while continuing to invest and deliver differentiated products and services that will bring value to our customers over the long-term.
So despite this mixed macro environment that we are all facing UTC is taking the actions necessary to drive long-term sustainable top and bottom line growth and create real long-term shareholder value.
Let me turn it over to Akhil and Paul to take you through the quarterly and full-year results and I'll be back with a few closing comments in Q&amp;A.
Akhil.
Thanks Greg.
So I'm on slide two.
Adjusted EPS was $6.30 that’s down 2% versus the prior year and up slightly excluding a $0.19 impacts from adverse foreign exchange.
Full-year GAAP earnings per share of $4.53 included a restructuring charges of $0.31 and an additional $1.46 of net charges from other significant items.
As we did told you back in December a lot of moving pieces this quarter so let me walk through a few of the larger pieces that make up the $1.46 of other significant items using the table on the right side of the page.
This morning's press release tables have a more detailed reconciliation.
The largest item is of $0.72 charge for the previously disclosed $867 million settlement of the Canadian royalty obligation at Pratt Canada.
There were also $0.41 of charges for tax related items roughly 75% of that is for U.S.
taxes on the planned repatriation of $1.4 billion of cash related to foreign earnings.
This will happen over the next couple of years.
Our aerospace businesses recorded $0.27 of charges for customer contractual matters $0.21 of that was at aerospace systems related to the completion of significant customer negotiations including the enhancement of our contractual position on our key program the settlement of certain customer contract disputes and a contract termination.
At corporate we recognized a liability of $0.17 for pending and future asbestos-related claims.
This was based on an analysis of our claims history broader nationwide asbestos claim data and most importantly recent agreements reached with insurers.
On the other side of the ledger you will recall in Q1 we had a gain on our value adjustment related to the acquisition of our controlling interest in a CCS joint venture that was a $0.14 benefit.
Now net income for the year was reduced by these charges resulting in fee cash flow to net income of 126%.
In that number the benefit from net non-cash restructuring charges and other significant items was slightly more than 25 points.
Moving to slide three organic sales were up 1% for both the year and the quarter in what continues to be a slow growth macro environment.
Looking at the fourth quarter our commercial businesses saw 4% growth in the Americas driven by continuing strong fundamentals in the U.S.
Europe was down 2% primarily from continued pressure in the Otis service business and Asia was down 1% due to China where sales were down 4%.
Growth in Commercial Aerospace was primarily driven by the aftermarket both at Pratt and UTAS.
Military Aerospace sales were down 11% mainly due to tough prior year compared on engine deliveries at Pratt.
Military aftermarket was down slightly at both Pratt and UTAS.
I'm pleased to say that Pratt has resolved the supply chain and delays experience in Q3 as the New England Logistics Center of NELC.
They are back to their pre NELC engine delivery cadence and we're on scheduled with deliveries for large commercial engines and the Joint Strike Fighter as of year-end.
Taking a closer look at our end markets on slide four and just a reminder we'll talk to Otis and CSS orders on a constant currency basis as we usually do.
Overall trends remain broadly consistent with our expectations across the portfolio.
In our commercial businesses we continue to see good momentum in North America particularly at Otis the North America new equipment orders were up over 50% in the quarter and 30% for the year.
This is on top of 40% growth in 2014 so very encouraging trend here.
At CCS U.S.
commercial HVAC equipment was down 5% in the quarter driven mainly by a slowing export market and tough compares in unitary.
For the full-year orders were up 5%.
U.S.
residential HVAC sales were up 2% in the quarter and up 5% for the full-year.
EMEA was somewhat mixed in the quarter Otis new equipment orders was strong up 20%.
At CCS commercial HVAC equipment orders were also up 4% while fire and security product orders were down 7%.
In China Otis new equipment orders were down 14% in the fourth quarter and finished down 13% for the full-year.
On the other hand CCS Fire and Security orders in China were up 8% and commercial HVAC was flat an improvement compared to trends earlier in the year.
Moving to aerospace revenue passenger miles continues to grow slightly above the long-term trend rate and airline profitability remains strong.
At Pratt &amp; Whitney total commercial aftermarket sales were up 11% in the quarter including a three points benefit from sale of Legacy Engine Hardware.
At UTC Aerospace Systems commercial aftermarket sales were up 8% on strong repair and provisioning activity.
Now before I let Paul to take you through the additional details for our 2015 let's talk briefly about the first quarter of 2016.
Based on our expectation of slowly improving economies as the year progresses and easier comparison to second half we expect 2016 to be backend loaded.
Additionally the second half of 2016 will benefit from declining E&amp;D trends and higher cost savings.
Also recall the first quarter of 2015 benefited by about $0.10 from timing of a few exceptional items.
First quarter last year was also the highest organic growth quarter of the year for CCS and UTAS.
We had a slowing but still growing China for Otis and lower negative engine margins at Pratt.
Primarily due to these factors as compared to an adjusted EPS of a $1.44 in Q1 2015 and consistent with our plan we expect adjusted EPS in the range of $1.35 to $1.40 for the first quarter of 2016.
This includes about $0.08 to $0.10 benefits from lower share count and another $0.10 in pension [pay rate] (ph).
As Greg said we remain fully confident in our full-year 2016 adjusted EPS guidance of $6.30 to $6.60.
With that let me hand it off to Paul to walk you through the business units in detail.
Paul.
Okay.
Thanks Akhil.
So turning to Otis on slide five in the quarter sales were $3.1 billion up 1% at constant currency.
Otis profit was $561 million and down 13% also at constant currency reflecting increased pricing pressure principally from China and the margin impact from softer service sales in Europe and lower new equipment volume in China.
Foreign exchange translation was an eight point headwind to sales and earnings.
Otis also had headwind from foreign currency related mark-to-market adjustments in the quarter.
New equipment sales increased 1% led by 26% growth in North America and mid single-digit growth in Asia outside of China.
EMEA new equipment sales were up 1% while China was down 7%.
Service sales for Otis were flat overall as a mid single-digit growth in both Asia and the Americas was offset by 5% decline in EMEA.
New equipment orders were up 2% in the quarter.
The strong momentum in North America continued with orders up over 50% on continued strength in major projects.
In EMEA new equipment orders were up 20% with strong growth in most major markets excluding Russia.
New equipment orders in China were down 14% that's 8% on a unit basis while new equipment orders in the rest of Asia were up 15% excluding the impact of the Thomson Line Metro project in Singapore that we referenced last year.
For the full-year operating profit was down 3% at constant currency on 1% higher organic sales.
Foreign exchange translation for the year had a nine point unfavorable impact on both sales and profit.
New equipment orders finished up 4% with solid growth in North America and in EMEA partially offset by 10% decline in Asia driven by that 13% decline we saw in China.
Outside of China Otis global new equipment orders were up 17%.
Moving to slide six climate controls and security grew sales 3% at constant currency with three points of tailwind from net acquisitions and flat sales organically.
Profits were up 5% at constant currency with continued benefits from restructuring and other productivity.
Overall foreign exchange translation was a five point headwind to both sales and earnings.
During the quarter we saw a continued sales growth in HVAC in North America where commercial HVAC was up 9%.
EMEA saw growth in HVAC as well up 4% organically and Asia was down 7% driven by a lower China.
Overall sales growth in HVAC was partially offset by 2% declines in both the fire and security product and fuel businesses globally.
The fire and security business in China was up 9%.
Our global refrigeration business was flat in the quarter with mid-single digit growth in Transicold offset by mid single-digit declines in commercial refrigeration.
CCS equipment orders were down 5% in the quarter primarily driven by last year's tough compare Transicold.
If you recall last year Transicold saw orders up more than 50% in the quarter.
In the fire and security business we were down mid single-digit globally with pressure from the oil and gas sector.
For the full-year operating profit was up 7% at constant currency driven by drop through from the 3% organic sales growth and productivity including lower commodity cost.
Shifting to aerospace on slide seven Pratt &amp; Whitney's sales of $4 billion were flat organically in the quarter.
Commercial aftermarket sales grew 11% in the quarter supported by low-teens growth in the commercial engines business primarily from the V2500 up 26% in the quarter and approximately $60 million from a sale of legacy engine hardware.
Military sales were down 15% on lower engine deliveries and large commercial OE sales were also down 15% primarily on engine mix as Pratt shift more V2500 engines and fewer PW4000 than in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Operating profit was down 1% in the quarter.
Headwinds from lower military volume along with higher negative engine margin and pension headwind were largely offset by drop through from the stronger commercial aftermarket continued declines in E&amp;D spending and better warranty experience.
For the full-year Pratt sales were down 1% organically driven by lower engine deliveries in all segments and lower military aftermarket sales.
Commercial aftermarket growth was 6% for the year.
Operating profit was down a $150 million in 2015.
Headwinds from pension negative engine margin and lower military aftermarket were partially offset by margin from the commercial aftermarket and lower E&amp;D spending.
Turning to slide eight.
Aerospace systems sales were up 4% organically in the quarter consistent with the last three quarters sales included the benefits of a change in arrangement that added around $80 million of pass through sales with no margins.
Excluding those pass through sales the commercial OE business was up 2% in the quarter with growth in new platforms partially offset by declines in legacy.
Commercial aftermarket sales were up 8% organically in the quarter largely driven by growth in provisioning for the A320neo and the 787.
Overall commercial spares finished the year with a book-to-bill of [1.0] (Ph).
Military OE were down high single-digit in the quarter driven by declines in the C17 and other programs and the military aftermarket was down as well about 1%.
Aerospace systems profits were down 10% in the quarter.
The year-over-year decline was driven by lower military sales unfavorable commercial OE sales mix as we began transitioning to newer platforms higher pension expense and lower contribution from licensing activities.
These headwinds were partially offset by higher commercial aftermarket volume and continued cost reduction.
Engineering spending was essentially flat in the quarter.
For the full-year aerospace systems sales grew 3% organically with about two points of benefit from the pass through sales mention before.
Profits for aerospace systems were down 3% for the year driven by adverse OE mix lower military sales and higher pension expense partially offset by a continued benefits from productivity lower engineering expense income from licensing agreements and benefits from both higher commercial aftermarket sales and favorable aftermarket contract adjustments.
So with that let me turn it back to Greg for the wrap-up.
Thanks Paul.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the call.
I am encouraged by the progress that team is making.
With the actions we've taken we’re much better positioned for the future.
There is off course some uncertainty surrounding the macroeconomic environment.
You can think about the three biggest markets for UTX starting with the U.S.
I think is a relatively solid outlook for U.S.
GDP growth despite what we've seen in the equity markets in January.
China as you know is working through some structural challenges and in Europe we’re starting to see signs of the recovery continues apace.
Against this backdrop we see continued growth in our North American markets and we expect that Europe will continue to slowly improve based on the order rates and the backlog as we exit the year.
China will be down for 2016 but let’s keep China in perspective while certainly experiencing some challenges as it grapples with reform and rebounds its economy from an industrial growth story to a consumer consumption economy its long-term growth prospects remain strong.
We still expect to see a 100 million people urbanize in the next five years or so in China.
And by 2025 they are forecast to be 221 million cities in China with more than 1 million inhabitants.
Just to put that in perspective today in Europe there are 35 cities with more than 1 million inhabitants so urbanization will continue to be a powerful force and it will drive growth in our commercial and aerospace businesses going forward.
On the aerospace side RPMs are continuing to grow we saw that last year with more than 7% RPM growth and the airlines are making - and the backlogs are there.
Right now for UTC it's about program execution and program cost.
Again we continue to be confident in our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance as $6.30 to $6.60 on sales of $56 billion to $58 billion.
Given the portfolio of the team we have today I have never been more confident about the future of UTC.
Our long-term outlook remains strong.
Innovative products and industry leading franchises global scale and solid market fundamentals in our core businesses driven by revenue passenger mile growth of the global expansion and continued urbanization of the middle-class have positioned UTC to deliver strong earnings growth well into the future and all of this will create long-term shareowner value.
It's important to remember in today's turbulent environment that UTC designs and manufactures products that people rely on every single day.
Our products enable modern and are installed and service for decades regardless of the economic cycle.
Our balance between aerospace and commercial our balance between new equipment and service and our balance geographically will help us weather these uncertain times.
Before we wrap it up today just a word on the transition with Pratt.
I would like to first of all take a minute to welcome Bob Leduc back to UTC.
You will recall Bob is the new President of Pratt &amp; Whitney following the announcement of Paul Adams retirement earlier in this month.
And you know Bob most recently led Sikorsky and Bob's leadership was instrumental in the successful sale of that business last year.
I would also like to thank Paul Adams for his many contributions to the company and his tireless work over the last six years in bringing all of these engines to the marketplace.
We wish Paul really nothing but success in the future.
With that let’s go ahead and open up the call for questions.
Kailey.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Good Morning Julian.
Good morning.
Just a question first on the organic sales trends so should we expect organic sales overall to be down a few points in Q1 and then sort of stabling Q2 and then kind of low mid single-digit in the back half to get to that one to three guides for the year.
Yes I think it's probably going to be more in the 0% to 1% range in the first quarter it's not back here to be negative.
I think there were some tough compares but close to 0% to 1% I would say and then slowly improving as the year progresses.
You got to keep in mind Julian we still see despite when we saw in China for Otis new equipment orders continue to be up globally and I would think that backlog will continue to play out so we have a very solid year outside of China and Europe is recovering.
So again it's not all doom and gloom here.
Sure.
And then on Otis secondly a tough margin performance in Q4.
You guided in December I think for about a $215 million price mix headwind this year.
Just wanted to check how confident you feel in that guidance now and maybe explain a little bit when you think we should start to see some of those market share improvement to show up in orders or revenues So I think the pricing pressure is continuing to be there to the point you made.
We did see increased pricing pressure in China this quarter and the Europe service business has not seen much improvement in its pricing environment as of now.
On the other hand there is additional cost improvement that Otis is continuing to push for a part of the commodity tailwind that we are seeing will also help improve the Otis tailwind from the cost side.
Remember they have 40 000 service vehicles so the lower GAAP lean prices are the better it is from our service cost point of view.
So we continue to look at cost to offset the incremental pricing pressure but net-net pricing is probably slightly higher than what we're thinking in December.
Now with regard to margins for the current quarter Julian keep in mind we took this a significant mark-to-market FX hit in the quarter which impacted margins by nearly a 100 basis point which is not normal for Otis.
So if you adjust for that Q4 margins were not that far out of line versus our 2016 guidance.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
Just to talk about GTF I realize it's quite an accomplishment Greg but there is a enormous industrialization challenge and we've clearly gotten some indications from Airbus that it's going to be go slow before you go fast.
So could you articulate how you are going to move forward with the engine so that the customer acceptance is flawless.
Howard it's a great question.
And as I mentioned many times over the past year the single biggest challenge that UTC has is the ramp on the GTF and coming down the cost curve on the GTF so that we can actually improve overall performance at Pratt.
You are exactly right there is going to be a relatively slow ramp in the first half of the year no change to the full-year.
However we still express to deliver about 200 GTF engines most of those off course will go to Airbus there will be some going to Bombardier for the CSeries aircraft but I think again we are following the lead of the Airbus on this.
But we think this is the prudent thing in terms of ramping up production relatively slowly entering into service and we want to have flawless entry into service across all of the airline customers and this gives us the opportunity to ensure.
I think that's what exactly happens.
So far it's been wonderful with Lufthansa this week since we've put the engine into service and we expect that trend to continue.
The engine is in great shape technically and we will focus to get on supply chain execution throughout the year.
I think Bob Leduc will hit the ground running there he has spent a lot of time in his first week on the job focused on this and this is going to be the gain for Pratt this year.
But just a follow-up you wouldn’t have made this management change if execution weren’t part of the issue and so how do we think about the P&amp;L impact and also the ramp in 2017 is stunningly high and probably not achievable the way you have laid it out.
So I mean are we going to see a restructuring of some from because you are not going to get there I think under the old plan? Howard did you get cranky this morning forgot your coffee I think you are supposed to.
No but in all seriousness Greg I mean you have a remarkable optimism but I want you to plan for the downside so that we can see something that's a little bit better but that hill is huge.
Howard I couldn’t agree with you more it is a huge hill to climb.
Let me first of all just go back to your first comment.
Paul's retirement was sudden it wasn’t expected but you got to give Paul credit.
He is the guy that shepherded this engine through the design through the development through the certification and working nonstop for the last six years you understand why Paul wanted to take a pause.
We are really fortunate to have Bob Leduc on the bench with the sale of course to hit the ground running over there and Bob knows the business he was at Pratt for more than 30 years he has been at UTC for more than 35 years.
He knows what needs to be done from a ramp perspective on the operation side and the team is focused on it.
I think again this slow entry into service that we've laid out with Airbus gives us the chance to make sure the supply chain is in sync with our manufacturing facilities.
Let's say Howard with all of the money that we have spent on capital and infrastructure within the UTC operations I'm confident we can hit this run rate going forward.
These engines don’t take long to assemble it's the question of just making sure all parts are there on time and that's what the focus is going to be at Pratt as well as driving the cost down.
So just because Bob is coming in there is no change to Pratt's guidance let me be clear on that.
There is no change to the ramp schedule.
2017 is 12 months away I'm not going to give guidance on 2017 but we remain confident along with Airbus that we will be able to meet their requirements going into the next couple of years.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Howard.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Carter.
Question for Akhil actually.
Akhil I wondered if you could give us a little bit more granularity on Q1 at the segment level it's sounded like you were highlighting more of the revenue growth challenge against tough comparison CCS and UTAS.
Obviously we know about the margin pressure at Pratt presumably those early deliveries have a very negative engine margin not just the sort of averages that you guys talk about but you also called out negative mix impacts on UTAS on the OEM front.
I was just wondering if you could just help us a little bit more at the segment level and understanding those trends and how we work through the year.
I know you talked about E&amp;D tailwind as well where will we see those primarily Pratt any extra color would be helpful? Sure.
So I think trends unfortunately as you know at the segment levels 2016 is a year where only CCS is talking about a growth in earnings.
So challenge that first quarter is a little more pronounced in the case of UTAS in the case of Pratt and in the case of Otis where they will recover as the year progresses but the first quarter is going to be more than disproportionately down in earnings as those segments ready to bear full-year guidance right.
It's the mix at UTAS that you talked about Carter it’s the continuing pricing challenge at Otis and the lack of service recovery yet in Europe.
CCS continues to do well although that has a tough compare in the first quarter based on just the strong organic growth they had 5% organic growth last year.
Yes 6%.
6% so I think as a result CCS will have a little bit of a challenge.
The good news will come as I said on the pension side which will flow through all of the segments and then the share count reductions which is the effective capital deployment that we have been doing.
So again no surprises here Carter I don't want to let anybody feel that this is new news this is something we knew all along when we put the plan and our guidance together it is just a way the structure of the year is.
Yes.
So just trying to get the cadence right.
So effectively Q1 will mark the low point for all four segments Yes.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Carter.
Our next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Greg on the GTF there was the comment and the release today about hitting our key performance requirements but can you just update us on the cooling issue where that stands getting a fix there? Yes David.
We continue to make progress there.
I think we talked about this in detail in December.
I would tell you that Pratt team has identified the fixes is a software fix and a minor hardware fix.
Just to be clear every next generation commercial engine out there has to cool down to a uniform thermal before they start the engine.
So this is not something endemic just to the GTF the starting time of the cooling is a little longer than what's the customer would have liked.
These changes that we're talking about on software and the hardware again relatively simple to do not a big cost and I think importantly doesn't change any of the fuel burn or noise or emissions on the engine these are really pretty minor changes.
If you guys are looking for something to worry about we worry about thing we don't control like FX.
I wouldn't worry about the technical aspects of this GTF it is rock solid.
Greg when would you expect the fix to be in the market? We expect - the hardware comes in for the changes in our February build we'll get those out by towards the end of the second quarter you will actually see those out there in deliveries.
Okay great.
Just given the slow ramp it's actually beneficial there is not going to be a lot of engines out there with the old hardware or we will retrofit those over the course of the next year.
So again we expect the impact to customers to be very minimal.
Okay and a follow-up on the aftermarket pretty good numbers this quarter both at Pratt and UTAS.
How are you feeling relative to the forecast you have given for 2016 I think pretty much flat the low single-digit growth do you think maybe there could be upside or how do you feel overall? Thanks.
Look we're very encouraged by what we saw at the fourth quarter we've been talking about aftermarket growth RPMs were up as I said 7% we expect them to be up at least 5% 5.5% this year.
Airline profitability remains very very strong.
So we expect the guidance that we gave clearly we have a very good shot at that and if there is up side we will talk about that at the end of the year as appose to the beginning of the year.
Okay.
That works thanks.
Thanks David.
Our next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Hey Ron.
Good Morning Ron.
So a big picture question for you.
I think I have been covering you guys almost 15 years and you have been doing restructuring for 15 years.
When do we finally see a return on all these restructuring it's like billions a year like when does that happen? So Ron we've been doing restructuring - I have been here 26 years and I think every year we have done restructuring amongst those 26 years.
The fact is we seem to pay off all the time.
As I think about the latest big trench of restructuring is 2009 to 2014 we did about $3 billion of restructuring you saw a big pay off from that restructuring.
In fact almost $3 billion of run rate savings.
We'll continue to see savings on this next trench of restructuring it’s about $1.5 billion over four years in 2015 through 2018.
By 2019 you should see about $900 million of run rate savings.
The fact of the matter is you got to keep doing this.
The DNA of UTC is to take cost out to do more with less it's about productivity every day because the world just get more competitive had we not done restructuring in the past we wouldn't be where we are today in terms of product cost and global scale.
So it's real it's necessary and it's things that we know how to do.
It’s also Ron since you are talking big picture as step back so on a big picture basis and remind you of the operating margin that UTC had in mid ‘90s when we started doing restructuring it was 6% and it is 16.7% now.
And lot of that margin expansion has been fueled by this continuous restructuring that we do taking cost out.
I would also put our SG&amp;A rate against any industrial company and you will see that our aerospace companies are best-in-class in terms of SG&amp;A as a percent of sales as are our commercial companies.
So all that has been fueled where we need to continue to work on its reducing our manufacturing footprint as Greg talked about in December where we have 42 million square feet of which 22 million are certain high cost locations and we need to continue to work on that.
So productivity is a way of life at UTC as Greg said it is part of the DNA and we just need to keep building that.
Okay and then just one quick detail.
That $900 million to the Canadian government is that the Bombardier tax I mean can you give us more color what is that? Go ahead.
Look we over the last several years we've had these agreements multiple agreements with the Canadian government on to which they would provide reimbursement for portion of our E&amp;D.
we had intern promised certain jobs in Canada and certain supply chain related investments and in return we had to pay royalties for several years.
So where we stood at the end of last year was we had 20 years plus off variable high royalty payments looking ahead for us and all we did was crystallize that liability into a certain payment at this point of time which we will pay off in four years.
Net-net it's good news for both the Canadian government and for us we essentially given back the E&amp;D funding that they had given to us we've also taken advantage of a good exchange rate in the process.
Canadian dollar is at a pretty decent rate right now and so I think net-net it's a pretty good thing to do.
Okay that make sense right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you very much.
So I joined a little bit late but maybe tell us how many GTFs you delivered in the fourth quarter and you have mentioned that supplier issues kind of our potential bottleneck.
Where are you on that and are there any other kind of potential kind of restraints beyond the cooling issue? Thank you.
Yes Cai.
I think the total deliveries on GTF in the fourth quarter were only five and keep in mind that goes to 200 this year.
As I think about the technical aspect of the engine as I said before this cooling issue has really prove to be a non-issue we've got that issue behind us I believe.
And as far as the rest of the engine goes so far it's been rock solid.
Its 15% better on fuel burn it's 15% better on emissions it's 75% better on noise when the engine is replacing.
And it's been proven in both the development program and the flight test to meet all of those criteria and I think you are going to see airlines lining up to get this we've got orders for more than 7 000 of these engines keep in mind.
As far as the supply chain I think it's all of the normal challenges that you have in any ramp up.
Again we are ramping down to V2500 we are ramping up to GTF.
There are 500 suppliers on this engine the fact is there is probably five or 10 that cause us concern on a daily basis.
Leduc and the team at Pratt are working all of those issues on a daily basis we did put a lot of resources in the supply chain.
So there is no one supplier I would call out here other to say that we are on top of all of those suppliers making sure that they meet their commits.
Keep in mind that 80% of this engine comes from the supply chain so supply chain has to be perfectly synchronized with the build plan and that's what we are working to ensure.
Thank you.
Thanks Cai.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gents.
Good morning Mr.
Sprague.
Good morning.
Maybe shifting gears a little bit to the commercial companies.
Just couldn’t keep up with all the color on CCS you then clear had made a comment about commercial orders down does that include Transicold in that commentary.
Could you just speak to the actual commercial HVAC end market and what you are seeing there in the quarter and sales and orders? Yes.
Sure Jeff.
So we talked about CCS equipment orders in the quarter being down 5% that was largely driven by declines in Transicold which if you recall last year we talked about Transicold orders being up more than 50%.
So some of that’s compare if you look at sort of across some of the other product lines global commercial HVAC was down about 2% driven by a softer North America and both the fire and security products business and the fuel businesses were down a little bit as well.
I guess one bright spot on the fire and security side was that China was actually up in the quarter about 8% and that was driven by our fire detection and alarm business in Qinhuangdao that's the GST business which saw better order rates coming out of their the commercial vertical.
And the comment about weakness in U.S.
export related was that also a Transicold comment or is this something else? It was commercial it has largely to do but some of the projects in the Middle East if you will on the export side where we are seeing some weakness commercial.
Commercial HVAC.
Commercial HVAC.
Right and then maybe just shifting gears.
So you decided to take a charge and bite the board on repatriation.
Do you see more of that as we move forward or you just kind of - is that's got a one time opportunity you are taking given the given the gain on Sikorsky and other dynamics in the quarter.
We were trying to be opportunistic I think it will bring back about a $1.4 billion for as a result of net charge.
I think the effective tax rate on that's about 17% so we thought it made sense to do that given what we're trying to do here in terms of another $3 billion of share buyback and $2 billion cost of dividends.
It just seem to be the most advantageous way to get at that cash.
There are no further plans to take charges like that.
We bring back $500 million to $1 billion a year anyways when we receive that typically relatively low text cost but this is just kind of a one-time item and it probably won't be repeating in the future or the near future at least.
And if I could just sneak one more in can you give a little bit more color though the end markets overall seem to be getting a little bit better do you still think that traditional lag effect will kick in that better turnaround equipment will see that into service or is there some other dynamic there? Yes you are exactly right Jeff.
I think if you look at what mix the service revenue go up it's essentially conversion of new equipment coming out of warrantee into service contract and that has been anemic in Europe as you know.
The fact that new equipment orders are starting to be up new equipments sales in EMEA was up in the fourth quarter as well those will translate into service contracts for the down the line.
The other aspect is also that the modernization side of the service business had been hurt significantly as some of these regulations have worked itself out primarily in France.
And I think we've hit bottom their modernization backlog is actually up so that should start to turnaround as well.
So the combination of new equipment sales turning into service contracts and modernization improving should start to turn that but it is going to be a slow process as you said Jeff it's not going to turn right away.
Yes Jeff just to put a couple of data points around that.
We talked about Europe new equipment orders or EMEA new equipment orders being up 20%.
They are also up better than 20% for the year including Western Europe which was also up double-digit.
so that's encouraging and then to Akhil's point on the mod side if you look at the end of 2014 we've finished the year with mod backlog down in the teens.
It was essentially flat in 2015 we would rather see up but it certainly a better starting point going into 2016 than what we saw last year Alright.
Thank you for that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the call here.
Just going back to China on the commercial businesses and the comment that you made that there was a bit of disconnect between HVAC and fire and security orders relative to Otis.
Can you just provide a little bit more color on why that disconnect is developed and let us know why we think one is a leading indicator over the other.
Meaning HVAC in fire and security begin to follow Otis or are we going to begin to see a reversal of Otis and see some better things to come more in line with what we've got at HVAC and fire and security? Jason as you think about Otis in China 60% plus of the Otis business relates to residential construction and that of course is the mark that has been the most hurt by I would say the over building and there maybe some of the over leverage that we've seen in the Chinese economy in the last five or six years.
So it’s not surprising to see the Otis orders now a lot more than the rest of the business.
On the commercial and industrial side you see again orders were flattish on our commercial HVAC business.
Actually what we see in the overall economy industrial economy there is not much growth it is not declining the same way the residential space is.
I mean if you look at the fire products that is really more of a consumer driven purchase as appose to residential construction or even industrial and that was up 8%.
So as China make this transition from this industrial economy to this consumer economy we can expect to see more of the trends continue but urbanization is not done as I said you still got a huge population of people move into the cities.
We are not giving up on the residential elevator market.
We still see growth there we see a lot more growth I think on the service side Otis is a service business I think we were servicing a 165 000 elevators at the end of the year that’s about 20% we expect another 20% kind of growth as we go into 2016.
So the dynamics are not unexplained well I think you just need to peel it back away or understand individual dynamics of the businesses.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Nigel.
We covered lot of ground.
So just wanted a couple of quick questions here.
So going back to the $1.5 billion charges in the quarter is that all cash and then I guess on the Canadian R&amp;D reimbursements does that help future indications for margin it feels like there is a royalty payment that goes away in the future years.
Sure the second question is first Nigel.
The Canadian royalty trade off would probably be at $30 million benefit in 2016 but it will result in about a $100 million EBIT benefit for five years out when the E&amp;D reimbursements was expected to be there which are going away now and the royalty payments go away as well.
So definitely benefit to Pratt four five years out of about $100 million or so a years.
With regard to overall the cash charges and lot of these payments - the Canadian payment which is the largest one of the $1.5 billion charge that you referred to is cash.
In 2016 we would probably have $500 million cash outflow as a result of these charges that we have taken in Q4 of this year roughly $250 million or so from Canada and another $250 or so for the tax related cash reparation if you will right.
So that's the impact the rest of it will follow over the course of the next few years.
Okay that's very helpful and then just quickly on CCS and I know this question have been answered a few times but the downsides in orders do you have the backlog number in hand how does the backlog look year-to-year? The backlog we can get you the exact number later on but I do believe that backlog was - because of full-year was up for commercial HVAC and the sales were up slightly more.
So backlog maybe slightly down is what I'm guessing but we'll get you the exact number.
Yes I don't have the number handy but I would just remind you that on CSS it's a relatively quick turn - not relatively very quick turn.
So on the HVAC side you know you are going to turn orders in a few weeks up to as high and maybe three months and on the fire and security side it's essentially a book and ship business.
So I would say backlog is a lot more important than Otis side than CCS.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Nigel.
Our next question comes from the line of Deane Dray with RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Deane.
Hey I was hoping you could comment on whether you see any changes in how UTC is competitively positioned with this announced JCI and Tyco merger and commercial building services.
We talked about potential consolidation so this is a big one is here.
Does that change the equation for you guys at all? Not very much Deane as I think Tyco’s fire business if you think about it is primarily a fuel business it's about 75% fuel 25% product we obviously compete against them in both for fuels and the product.
We are actually more heavily weighed into the product side than the fuel side and as far as JCI goes on their building efficiency side obviously we compete with them against with carrier.
But again they will take some cost out as I think you saw in their press release just similar to what is [Indiscernible] when we put fire and security and carrier together about three years ago.
So it’s nice to do the run in our playbook there but I don’t really see that there is a big competitive impact as a result of that.
Thanks.
And then just a question for Akhil on the asbestos charge.
How far out have you reserved the asbestos liability and have there been any changes or material changes in your insurance coverage? As I said earlier I think we've had looked at the potential from all the knowledge we have today of the pending and future expected claims and adjusted that downward for the insurance agreements that we entered into in Q4.
So net of those two is what you are seeing here hopefully we won't see any greater charges beyond this but you never know right but at this point based on the best knowledge we had Deane we took that into account.
So just to clarify on the time horizon we've seen companies take different approaches here.
Did you take what's called an end of life charge which is as far as you can foresee it sounds like that's in your answer or did you do a 10 year reserve.
No.
It's end of life is what the approach we took at.
That's great to hear.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Can you talk a little bit about Pratt &amp; Whitney it looks like when you talked I guess before you talked about I think it was $15 billion in revenues it looks like it came in a little bit less even on an adjusted basis just with that military weakness.
Why is it a little bit light in the fourth quarter? Sam you are exactly right.
If you think about the revenues in Q4 Pratt was a little short of our expectations even from December while we hit on the earnings side we were a little short.
We were 100% on contract at Pratt as we exited the year both on the commercial and the military side but we had expected to get the more engines out of the door on the military side than what actually shipped.
So there was a little bit of I'll say backlog there that we had expected to get out.
The other one Sam there is the Pratt Canada business as you know the helicopter related engine shipments have been weak throughout the year there has been also some weakness in the general aviation market particularly related to engines for the agricultural segment et cetera.
So I think Pratt Canada and military engines those were the two short falls versus say a few months ago.
And then just on Otis can you just talk a bit about sequentially from the third quarter to fourth quarter there is over a 200 basis points shrink in the margin on an adjusted basis.
Is that foreign exchange that the R&amp;D step up you have talked about I mean what is the type.
Yes Sam it's largely due to the foreign exchange because as you recall Q3 actually had a positive roughly $30 million benefit from mark-to-market adjustments and that almost entirely reserved in Q4.
So if you adjust for those things I think the adjusted margins are not that far off quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Hayes for closing remarks.
Thank you Kailey.
First of all thanks for listening in today I appreciate I know there is a lot of data here and Paul and the team will be available throughout the day and the week to take all of your questions.
I look forward to seeing many of you at our Annual Investor Meeting we will be doing that in New York on March 10th.
Again if you have any questions give us a call.
Take care everyone.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a wonderful day.