[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Amit Bhalla with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start just with the revenues in the quarter.
And if I remember back to fiscal 4Q '10 the Oncology business missed in that period also.
There was a number of delivery push outs install time issues et cetera.
And this quarter Oncology Systems revenue also fell short of our expectation and consensus.
Can you just walk through what happened in Oncology? Sure.
Let me start Amit by saying that Oncology was within spitting distance of our expectation.
So the impact was really from our other businesses and so I'm happy to walk you through that.
The revenue in deposits came from some slightly different places than we had first expected.
SIP and X-ray Products were down on a combined basis somewhere between $12 million and $13 million in the quarter.
And as you know X-ray Products we had the issue in Japan which impacted us somewhat and most of this coming from SIP which is just a very lumpy business and where we had push-outs in the quarter.
Good news is that the SIP sales target for FY '12 looks very strong so we will make those up as we move into next year.
At the proton business we had built in some proton revenue and let me just say that that SIP and X-ray revenue was at about a 40% margin.
So that was down and in return we had higher-than-expected Proton Therapy revenue in the quarter and that's at a 0% margin.
So as you know that was not exactly a fair trade if you will on the top line.
Fortunately the -- as I mentioned oncology was within spitting distance of what we were expecting.
But we did have some territorial mix that impacted it.
We had unprecedented quarter-over-quarter changed in FX rates and so as we sat down and looked at revenue around the globe when you converted that into dollar depending on where that revenue came from you could get very different results.
So I'm actually quite proud that we got -- that within -- that we hit the 10% number and that the Oncology gross margin made up a lot of difference because it came in significantly higher than what we were expecting.
And then the last thing I would add in terms of the Q4 that was a little odd is because of the intra-quarter wild fluctuations in FX we had a $2 million hedging loss that flowed through SG&amp;A from just doing our balance sheet hedges.
That is fairly unprecedented we tend to be closer to maybe $0.5 million up or down and had $2 million in the quarter from those FX losses.
So that's really kind of where the changes were from what we initially expected.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up there.
For Oncology so there wasn't any issues with install timer push outs? And then secondly can you just -- Tim you said that linear accelerators were up worldwide were they up in North America? We were trying -- I'm trying to think back if we were talking about orders or sales when we were talking about the units.
I think we were talking about orders.
We were talking about orders yes.
I think we were talking about orders.
So the global order units were up.
And then the U.S.
yes the units placements would have been up I mean we saw again we saw 10% growth in sales for North America so that was quite healthy.
Research Division</strong> And I just want to ask you a quick guidance question or just to understand what's implied inside these -- in the numbers.
In fiscal 2012 if I assume that there is roughly like $44 million of Calypso and Proton revenue that adds about 200 basis points to the number to guidance.
Can you tell me how much you're assuming in your guidance? And also for fiscal 4Q how much Calypso was in the Oncology order book? There was -- in the fourth quarter there was nothing.
That was an acquisition that was made subsequent to quarter end.
I would just tell you that Calypso had annualized sales of somewhere around $15 million.
We do believe that Calypso can help our orders -- topline orders next year by about a point or so.
You're going to get some lag on that turning into revenue growth because again we tend to -- our expectation is we will bundle most of these with the oncology sale and they'll be in backlog for about 12 to 15 months.
So we feel very good about the orders for Calypso moving into FY '12 most of the revenue bumps won't come until FY '13.
In terms of protons that's a -- boy it's a tough one.
Unfortunately it's not going to move the EPS number but it can make your margins look very strange.
We are expecting somewhere close to $20 million additional revenue for the Scripps project in FY '12 and I would give that a fairly high probability just given that we are already delivering under that contract.
There could be additional revenue as high as a total of $50 million if we were to get another order depending on when that comes in the year and how much of the percentage of completion we have completed by that time.
So again that's why we're putting a range around this but the Proton business is going to put some volatility in that number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're 8% to 9% -- I'm sorry your 9% to 11% revenue growth is -- includes about 200 basis points from those 2 issues? Yes it includes about $20 million of Proton revenue that again we're pretty confident of and you can assume somewhere around another $25 million or so that we're just estimating could be potential revenue with if and when we book an additional order.
But I think in terms of -- the point that we should make is in terms of guidance on EPS Calypso loses money next year the Proton business that we're booking makes no profit so we're making that increase in our EPS through organic measures and...
Margin improvement.
Margin improvements and so that I think that -- I think we have what $0.05 of...
$0.05 to $0.06 for Calypso and it's a little loaded more in the first half than the second because we have some transaction costs and severance and those were for paying in Q1.
And then some people will be transitioning off in the consultants and whatnot.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First Elisha just -- you talked about the gross margin impact from the Proton order.
I espied just for the gross margins for the Proton order I actually get stronger GM's than I guess we were expecting.
I wonder if you could kind of walk us through some of the dynamics that may have attributed to stronger underlying gross margin trends whether it was easing some retrofit issues from last quarter or a TrueBeam? No it was largely driven by TrueBeam.
We -- our Oncology had a very strong margin 45% in the quarter it was up 167 basis points quarter-over-quarter largely driven by higher percentage of TrueBeam at a higher margin and some improved installation and warranty costs as we continue to get faster on the -- on these installations.
The X-ray Products margin as I mentioned was roughly even with the year-ago quarter.
We're seeing a little bit of pricing pressure with the RAD panels and some mix between tubes and panels tend to drive that margin as well.
So really the total impact of the gross margin came from bookings $33 million of revenue at a 0 margin.
If you were to strip out Scripps the total company gross margin would would've been up 140 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
So a very good margin performance.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful.
And then maybe Elisha one more question on fiscal '12 guidance.
Can you just give us a sense in terms of your service business which has been kind of a powerful driver of growth.
How you expect that service business to perform in fiscal '12 versus fiscal '11? Yes it had done very very well.
The -- I'm not going to sit here and say that level of performance is going to continue indefinitely but I think we will definitely see double-digit performance in the service business.
Somewhere around the 10% to 12% range.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if we could -- just pick back up on Calypso a little bit and I just have a couple -- one logistical question can you just remind us where the amortization gets booked through to the P&amp;L? And of the $0.05 to $0.06 how much of that is really noncash versus cash expense.
Then a follow-up to that would be just as it relates to Calypso specifically what are sort of the clinical milestones or data points we should be watching out for over the next call it 6 to 12 months just to sort of track the progress of that technology? I'll start with the non-numerics stuff.
Basically the Calypso folks have introduced some data for prostate that -- and so we're going to be talking to a lot of people in the United States about adding Calypso into their prostate programs.
So you -- there's no big events there it's just a continued activity on our part.
For lung Calypso is trying to get approval for a lung marker and of course as you can tell from the presentation I made today and other presentations we think that both operable and inoperable lung cancer can benefit from more radiation therapy treatment and -- but the trick with lung is you have to hit the target.
And for especially prosteric types of treatment it's important that that be extremely accurate.
So we're hoping that the Calypso device will get approved by the FDA.
Obviously they're in trials to do that.
I'm not going to predict the date today because that's up to things that are beyond my control.
But I would hope that maybe 6 months from now I can give you much a better insight into when that approval would be expected.
But I think Elisha's remarks earlier are very important to us.
Calypso -- we didn't invest in Calypso because we think it's going to have a huge and positive impact on us in 2012.
In fact we expected to lose $0.05 or $0.06 for us in 2012.
Calypso is an investment for the sake of 2013 and 2014.
That's when I hope to have more FDA approvals that's when I expect the business that we got this year for prostate starts to be delivered in terms of sales.
So now I'll now turn it over to Elisha to comment on the financial stuff.
Great.
David so of that $0.05 to $0.06 most of that is cash-related the -- we are not finalized on the purchase price allocation as of yet but I am estimating at this point the amortization will be about $0.01.
That will flow through the SG&amp;A and that is included in that $0.05 to $0.06.
So most of that is -- obviously we had some legal and accounting and things to close the transaction we had some severance we are actually taking the Calypso operating losses that they've had over the last year and cutting that in half.
So we are making progress but we are continuing to invest quite heavily particularly in the regulatory area so that we can get this FDA clearance that Tim mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on -- more on the target SG&amp;A and the P&amp;L.
Maybe just give us some sense as to directionally what's happening with discretionary spending.
Operating margins that I think we're kind of roughly flat in 2011 and you had talked to that kind of some lost quotas -- I think you call them austerity measures that had pulled back spending in fiscal '10 some of which returned in fiscal '11.
Maybe you should just give us a sense that we're back on the trajectory that sort of annual 50 basis point of operating margin expansion that you had previously targeted? Sure.
I think for fiscal year '12 once you go through your model you'll see that we are modeling out again somewhere around 23% or so of the EBIT margin.
That is including the dilutive effects of Calypso that is including the shutdown of the dpiX manufacturing facility the Proton revenue so it's a little hard to compare apples to apples but in terms to answer your question I would say we are still cautious on spending we are not out like drunken sailors by any stretch of the imagination but we do plan to get salary increases in equity brands and all of the normal things that we do year-over-year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus a little bit on some a qualitative-type questions.
The TrueBeam order rate is growing nicely and I try and balance that against your revenue guidance of plus 10% plus 9% to plus 11% and it looks like acquisition and Scripps adds roughly by my calculation roughly 100 basis points or so.
Does this mean that you've got an extra 100 basis points coming from just good order flow and turning that order into revenue? Well we did have significant orders and increasing backlog.
And we also as Elisha said we had some business that moved from quarter 4 into next year which gives us a little extra tailwind which is nice to see.
So all of those things have an effect.
And I'm going to say about TrueBeam the bulk of our TrueBeam business has been in North America.
True -- if we start -- we're to see more pick up in TrueBeam internationally and if we start to get a lot of TrueBeam international orders then I think that that's just hugely positive for us.
So some of that obviously is built into 2012 but I think the European and Asian story for TrueBeam is really going to help us in  2013 -- in 2014.
I think when we introduced TrueBeam I told everybody that it would take 2 years for that to hit the international markets that it would first hit the U.S.
market because people set those budgets a long time in advance internationally.
And so I think that that's proven to be the case.
I was just at a meeting of users of scientific meeting of our users in Berlin and there are a lot of presentations about TrueBeam and a tremendous amount of optimism about the product.
Not just from physicians and physicists but also from operators.
I mentioned at ASTRO that I had met with our customer who went on and on about how much they love TrueBeam and it's really nice to hear.
So I think all in all it's a product that's going to give us a lot of strength.
So we'll see orders strength into TrueBeam in 2012 and some of our uplift in terms of revenue is from that.
And -- but I think our real potential -- and Oncology did nearly what 45% margin in the fourth quarter.
I mean this is incredible what TrueBeam has done for us.
So I think we're going to see that manifest even more strongly in the future because I think we can bring up our European and Asian margins as well.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So it sounds to me like are signals are go in terms of placing the TrueBeam systems you're not seeing any delays in the places such that you're able to recognize that net order into revenue in fiscal '12 without hang-ups? No we we're not -- there's nothing deferred we're installing them quickly our install times have come down very nicely what 3 or 4 weeks now for 4 weeks for install times.
And so I'm just -- we've hit the ground running.
We have now installed close to 150 TrueBeams so we've gone through a lot of learning doing all of that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Shifting gears to x-rays.
I appreciate the comments made on the new mammography system that's to be featured at RSA.
Can you just sort of help us understand why this would be differentiated and why customers will want to look at this particularly given the current base right now of selenium system? Well the selenium systems are very delicate and they have lifetime problems they produce very good pictures but they are not as reliable as amorphous silicon and so -- but people have preferred them because of image quality.
What's happening now is that we've been able to make amorphous silicon products and then -- and the new generations of coatings performed so well and gets such high resolution that those panels are producing images good enough to use in these kinds of mammography systems.
So I'm not saying we're going to get 100% market share and all that and far from it but I am saying we're going to start to see some penetration of these kinds of panels which are cheaper to make and more reliable and easier to ship into more and more mammography systems over time so we're happy to see it.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it doesn't sound like customers who are entrenched in the current amorphous system have to make big changes into how they're producing the materials they use.
You're essentially giving the same product but a better product? That's what we believe and so what we want to do now is -- obviously we want to try to woo those people into offering this as maybe as an option on their product.
So that they don't all have to deliver amorphous selenium they have an option that they can deliver to customers.
But that's what  Mr.
Kluge has to do starting at RS&amp;A is try to talk more people into doing that.
And of course we already have been in contact with a lot of people who've seen the stuff that we do and people are incorporating our new mammography panel in their products.
But I think 2012 is a year in which we're going to try to persuade a lot of people to consider this technology instead of what they already use.
LLC Research Division</strong> I apologize if you gave this but did you give the tax rate that underlies your EPS guidance? For fiscal year '12? LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes.
It will be about 31% Dalton.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and what about the share count? We haven't guided to share count and obviously fully diluted shares depend largely on what's going on with the stock price as well.
I think you should assume that once this stock repurchase program that we are in that we will have some ongoing share repurchases as we've done over the last several years.
And then just building your stock price assumptions we ended the quarter -- we ended Q4 within 116 million shares outstanding I believe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Then just shifting to R&amp;D you did mention you had a pretty good bump in the year as you're working on some new products.
Should we expect that to moderate going forward? Could it even come back down a little bit? Or what -- how would you model it? No I'm -- I love R&amp;D.
So we will probably grow it as fast as we grow sales and maybe a little bit faster.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going to start with Calypso.
Just a couple there Calypso had 110 installed base units I'm just wondering if any of those were already Varian -- had Varian equipment on the 1x side.
If they did not how long would that transition take? And then on the earn outs for Calypso I'm just wondering what is the actual trigger for these earn outs and what is the timetable? It's a 2-year earn out and the trigger is they have to exceed as of the expected units and we haven't disclosed what those units are.
But once they exceed what we expect on the installs going forward for the next 2 years then there's additional money.
In terms of the rest -- first part of your question I don't think I have that number but I believe -- looking around the room at the people who're sitting here with me that it's going to be probably consistent with our normal share in North America which is about 70% of units.
So I would expect that that's the number and we don't have any reason to believe it's lower or higher than that number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Elisha last quarter you mentioned freestanding clinics had a little bit of a tough time on the credit side of things getting access to credit.
Although today in Europe was a good announcement.
Markets were up and that's great.
But did you notice that was an issue this quarter? And if indeed it is an issue will the company consider using its balance sheet on the freestanding clinics side for systems and upgrades somewhat to how it's using it for the proton business? Well it really -- let me just say it didn't circle up to my desk as being a big issue in the past quarter.
And I've got financing folks on staff to go out and facilitate this financing and it's been business as usual.
So I don't think there's anything particular going on in the freestanding side right now.
We have used our balance sheet on the proton business and we used a good piece of it and we would always consider doing something for other segments but at this point it just has not been applied.
They haven't asked us to so Elisha hasn't had to be a drunken sailor yet in terms of doing that.
So I think that's going to be okay.
We have seen some nice activity on the part of freestandings in North America in the fourth quarter so I think that they're getting access to money.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two last ones for me quick ones.
One just a housekeeping one on the balance sheet $180 million in short-term borrowings.
Is that just related to Scripps or...
No no no.
That was related to our revolving line of credit that we drew down to do our accelerated share repurchase program.
Now Scripps is...
We are in the process of paying that down.
What you have to realize is we built a lot of the inventory for Scripps.
So loaning the money is to some extent using cash we've already spent.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tim maybe the last one just a general comment on reimbursement.
We're approaching November.
Just any of your thoughts heading into November on reimbursement for next year.
We are -- well to remind everybody on reimbursement for hospital-based reimbursement we are expecting about 1.5% for -- not counting -- let me -- I'll give you the answer and then I'll fix it.
1.5% for freestandings.
The number varies but it's around 6% 7% negative win which was anticipated.
If the super committee does not come back the super Congress does not come up with an answer there will be a 2% on top of that which won't affect hospitals at all.
I mean well it will affect them but I don't think it will affect their behavior.
That will be harder I think on freestandings and of course we don't know what the super Congress is going to do.
I guess November 26 is the deadline for a proposal so we have not -- we don't know there.
We'll see the final numbers next week but we have no reason to believe that the numbers are going to be any different than those numbers.
Anthony let me come back to one thing you said.
I just want to make sure that we don't mislead on your question regarding the debt facility.
We have committed $115 million to this facility.
We have only funded at this point $19 million which is new on our balance sheet and this will be drawn down over a period of time.
So a small portion has been funded for the centers to date.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then again that 6% 7% is not including what potentially could come from the super committee vote? That's correct.
It could be -- for freestandings they could be affected more.
But this is -- they've all taken this into account.
There's nothing here that they haven't known about for 3 or 4 months and their behavior's still been good.
And you have to remember we have done a tremendous job in the last few years at driving cost out of what it takes to do radiation therapy when you use our equipment.
It is true that if you use our competitor's equipment if I do say so myself you don't get the throughput that you get with our stuff.
But in treatment planning and in delivery we give people very good performance and that's why they prefer us.
And so I think that everybody expects the pricing to go down the payments to go down in radiation therapy.
And I think one of the reasons why they like what we're doing is because we've shown them how you can use our stuff to get your cost out.
And I think we can -- so I believe we can stay ahead of the curve.
Research Division</strong> I've been jumping between calls here so forgive me if I repeat a question here that you've already had.
But Elisha I want to look at guidance here for a second.
The $0.05 to $0.06 Calypso dilution that you're talking about how much of that is being offset? Can you just remind me by the increased interest income from the loan to Scripps? Well again only $19 million has been funded.
As you know it's an 8.25% currently and that will be drawn down anywhere from $1 million to $3 million per month by the end of the year somewhere around maybe $35 million to $40 million will be funded.
Also that has to be offset that we are borrowing more to under our revolver to do our share repurchase program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me ask it this way and I'll walk through all that math offline I guess.
But is the Scripps funding expected to add a few pennies or not as much as the $0.05 to $0.06 dilution on Calypso? It would take an average of maybe $25 million outstanding in 8.25% and that's your number.
That's it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's helpful.
So then as I think about the rest of your guidance it's the first quarter guidance that I'm still confused by the $0.74 to $0.75.
How much of the dpiX closure how much of that is going to cost to EPS? Sure.
Let me kind of walk you through the first quarter of '12 which I understand on the surface looks a little confusing.
The problem with the near-perfect quarter is you always have to anniversary it the following year and that's exactly what happened in the year-ago quarter.
Virtually every single metric moved in the right direction.
So if you look back into Q1 of last year earnings per share were up 27%.
So in this first quarter again you can see sales will be somewhere around 8% to 9% growth.
We have $0.04 to $0.05 dilution from both Calypso which is roughly $0.02 and then roughly $0.03 from the shutdown of dpiX.
And that's a onetime charge and that will all hit in the first quarter.
If you look in the year-ago quarter oncology had an unsustainably high gross margin at 47% and we are now modeling that will be closer to the 45% which is still very strong but will not be at the year-ago level.
And then in the year-ago quarter we also had that reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit which drove the tax rate down to 29% versus 33% or so in this Q1.
And that's about a $0.04 delta right there just on the tax rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that 33% Q1 tax rate you're still I think I caught before I jumped to another call 31% for fiscal '12 is what you're still guiding to though? Correct.
Research Division</strong> So a lot of what we lose in Q1 just kind of gates into probably higher estimates on street numbers in the back half of the year? Yes.
And I would just focus on for the full year and admittedly $0.10 is a relatively big spread.
It's early.
The FX rates have been all over the board and so we've put a slightly broader range on that.
But if you take the midpoint it'll put you at mid-teens growth year-over-year.
I think altogether next year looks pretty good.
It just doesn't look so good in the first quarter.
And a lot of things have just happened coincidentally in one quarter and that's what we're trying to explain.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No understood Tim and I guess what I was trying to feel out is it almost looks like Q2 through Q4 next year you're guiding to 20% plus EPS growth.
Well we'll get to that guidance when we get to it by quarter.
But for the year we still think this looks pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And another one I'm sure you won't bite on Tim but I'm going to ask anyway.
I mean just kind of your overall outlook on orders for next year.
Maybe just qualitatively you're up international and U.S.? Well obviously I'm feeling better about Europe today than I was yesterday so that's good news.
I'm feeling good about that.
In terms of North America obviously there's still turmoil.
I want to see our Medicare reimbursement rates come out.
But yet even if -- I don't -- I just can't contemplate that thing getting much worse in the 2% that people were talking about which I think is kind of a no op for the radiation/oncology business.
So I would -- I'm not particularly worried at that point.
It's more of a long-term consideration for the North American market.
In Asia we'll now have thoroughly graduated from Japan.
And so I think that we have some opportunities there.
We're showing share growth in China and we're very strong in Japan and other parts of Asia and the rest of the world.
You saw the rest of the world numbers for this quarter.
So I'm kind of bullish on international overall.
But for Europe I think a lot depends on what that currency number does for us.
And I want to say while I got you on the line.
We started this year giving a range of guidance of I think $3.34 to $3.39.
We came in at $3.44.
So although the fourth quarter we were disappointed by some slipouts that happened not in oncology and not in -- well but happened in X-ray and Security we nonetheless did well.
And so I bet just -- and some of that business has slid into 2012 and gives me optimism for 2012.
So I would have to say overall I'm more bullish now than I was even a week ago about next year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's encouraging.
And yes I guess just last let me just follow up one more.
I thought I was done there.
But if I look 2 years ago your North -- your orders on a constant currency basis were much softer in North America much stronger international.
This past year now in fiscal '11 as I update my model is pretty evenly balanced.
You think when we get through 2012 you think we're going to look more like 2010 or 2011? Are they more balanced there in '12 or will one geographic area outpace the others? I guess my view is that North America -- in the past I've seen North America slow down and then eventually you just get a return.
They just come back because they just have to buy.
I don't think -- I'm not expecting a strong return in 2012 necessarily but I am starting to see signs that people are starting to buy in North America as we emerge from this.
So that leaves me to believe in the long run we're going to see greater North American strength than we've seen for a while at some point here.
I can't tell you exactly when but some time in 2012 2013 we're going to see more strength in North America.
Is it going to be more balanced? Well it's like I say there are 310 million people in North America and 6.5 billion people outside of North America.
Ultimately we're just going to have to grow faster outside of North America than we do inside.
But the nice thing is that if we can develop products for those markets and if we can get nice products like TrueBeam to be well accepted in those markets then we can increase not only our share but we can increase our gross margin in our international businesses.
So in the long run I'm very bullish about international and I'm very bullish that we can increase our profitability from our international business.
Research Division</strong> Elisha just a quick question for you on collections and bad debt in Europe just given the situation which again hopefully is improving after today.
What's your DSOs look like in Europe? How does this compare to U.S.
and then how does it compare to a year ago? Well it's -- I don't have an exact number for you Junaid but it is higher in international markets than in the U.S.
We feel like we have adequate reserves on the books for whatever we might be experiencing in Spain or Portugal et cetera.
So I don't anticipate that there's going to be any real surprises coming out of there.
We do have a few hemo plans in certain countries that we're executing on.
And DSO we have if you average the last 4 quarters we've been right at 80 and yet again this quarter we're right at 80.
So I would say it's just kind of business as usual.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then again in Europe your competitor over there can be call it fairly aggressive on the pricing side.
Just again given the more macro issue going on in Europe how has this impacted pricing? As we started to introduce new products in Europe I think our pricing has done reasonably well.
I have to say I think our competitors are pursuing an M&amp;A strategy and we've been pursuing an organic growth strategy and these are different strategies for growth.
Both of them have their merits but I think it has enabled us to hold our pricing better than you might otherwise think.
Research Division</strong> And that's actually a good segue to your acquisition of Calypso.
Tim could you help us understand how this plays into other motion management strategies that you've been looking at for example Vision RT? Would you -- after Calypso would you think of perhaps moving away from Vision RT? Or alternatively would you even consider something more strategic similar to your deal with Calypso? Well motion management is one of those things where there are a lot of different ways to do the problem to solve the problem.
And to some extent I guess you might say -- I don't know if you ever played roulette.
We talked about drunken sailors earlier so I'm going to use a gambling example.
If you're playing roulette and you bet on 0 and double 0 and all the numbers you stand a greater chance of winning.
So in a way we're betting on all the numbers here.
We -- one way to know whether or not you're positioned properly is to use what I call active markers and that's what Calypso makes.
And active markers are nice because they -- the Calypso marker has -- you don't have to use ionizing radiation it tells you where it is.
Some people are going to prefer imaging.
And of the people who prefer imaging some of them are going to want to use what I call passive markers which means gold seeds.
They don't do anything except they're visible under radiation and some want to use no markers at all.
And we really don't know -- if you talk to one customer you talk to one customer about how they prefer to solve this problem.
We're going to provide an answer for the people who want to use no marker we're going to provide an answer for the people who want to use passive markers and we're going to use -- we're going to provide an answer for people who want to use the Calypso markers.
In lung think about lung because lung is very important to us going forward but also liver.
In lung and liver if you want to do stereotactic treatments it's a little different.
In the lung some lesions are visible when you treat them in the lung.
So you can use regular imaging methods and maybe no fiducials inside the lung for visual -- for visible tumors.
For other kinds of tumors that are hard to see and hard to distinguish between the background then a marker might be very good.
And the nice thing about the Calypso marker is you don't have to use extra x-ray to do imaging during that period.
For liver you can't see tumors at all in the liver with traditional imaging methods.
And so Calypso could be very useful inside the liver but also passive markers would be useful.
So we don't know how this is going to play but we do know that a lot of people love the Calypso product.
Obviously we didn't buy it without talking to users and a lot of users are very bullish about it.
But this is going to be -- it's not a one-size-fits-all market in terms of how this will be solved.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I like the drunken gamblers analogy.
Tim we're about a month away from RSNA.
I know that's Bob Kluge's time to shine versus the larger oncology business.
I know that you've all already renewed with one of your larger OEMs for the year on the X-ray business.
But as we head into RSNA and with new products coming could you give us a sense for this meeting and it's magnitude to the X-ray business and perhaps signing up some other larger OEM customers? Well this is where Bob gets to show his new stuff and he will be showing lots of new products.
And obviously a lot of his customers already sort of had guessed or know what we're coming up with and what we're going to show at RSNA but we can show a broader variety of things.
So for him RSNA is an important show.
He's way more busy.
All of the oncology people -- we talk to people who come in from the Chicago area and from the Midwest but otherwise that's just not a big oncology show.
But there's a tremendous number of customer meetings that goes on for Bob Kluge that -- where we get to meet important customers that are major buyers from us.
So it's a huge show for Bob Kluge.
Research Division</strong> First question.
Tim appreciate the color you've provided on reimbursement before.
Just wondering if you can comment on the dynamics of the private payers? There's obviously been some noise there with Blue Cross Blue Shield in Massachusetts.
And just wondering what you're hearing from customers about pushback from the private payers? And is your view that this ultimately doesn't impact demand on the freestanding side? Yes we've heard things like New England Blue Cross has been limiting IMRT to prostate which is strange because we're head and neck -- you'd be crazy not to do IMRT for head and neck patients because you're going to experience tremendous cost.
So we've seen insurers do nuts things before and obviously we're going to still see insurers do crazy things.
We've  seen some Western insurers blocking prostate SPRT and we've seen insurers blocking IMRT for breast.
IMRT for breast is probably not going to be well paid for except in certain kinds of cases and there's a difference between left breast and the right breast for treatment.
So it's hard to say where that's going to go.
We've seen clinicians successfully challenge nonsensical denials and I think we will continue to be and we're investigating.
We're putting money into clinical trials to provide more clinical evidence.
But I don't know what I can tell you.
Obviously some insurers are going to ignore the facts.
But if you have relatives that live in New England and they don't get IMRT when they have head and neck cancers treated then they ought to do something nasty to their insurer.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned the clinical trials.
I mean to what degree do you feel a need to get a cost of that versus just coordinating? And obviously we've seen some papers come out of the SPRT release at ASTRO.
So how much are you able to quantify what you're spending on coordinating these trials? Well we spend a lot of money every year on research that's done by customers.
Now what we spend is small I think compared to the total amount of clinical trial stuff.
A lot of what we spend is additional money to help facilitators speed up the course of a clinical trial.
But in the end the critical trials that most people like best are the ones that the manufacturer doesn't support.
They're paid for by the large investigative bodies like RTOG.
But we're participating and for example lung data.
We want to get lung data and we want to get it more quickly.
So we're going to participate to the extent that we can speed up the accrual of patients because that's something we would really like to see.
So if we can pay for a better status more statisticians or easier assembly of data et cetera that's good.
Also sometimes we want them to use a technology that's uniquely ours in a clinical trial.
And so if you have a general-purpose clinical trial and only one vendor has a particular technical solution then probably you're going to want to see some money from us to support that effort.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Calypso and now that the business is in your fold any thoughts on the pricing structure there? I mean the system's a couple hundred thousand dollars.
Does that make sense going forward? Or do you feel a need to maybe adjust the pricing and further integrate the device itself into the Linacs? Well the Calypso had a pricing level that was based upon its volume.
What we hope to do over time is increase the volume and get some advantages that we can offer in terms of pricing because we get scale.
But right now the scale isn't there yet so we're going to have to be very careful in what we do in terms of pricing.
And obviously we're going to spend some money on cost reduction activities to see what we can do.
Any technology like this the more inexpensive we can make it the better.
But this remains a very exotic device right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of the competitive dynamics we tend to get is as we think about the dynamics here in the U.S.
in particular around the Tomo-Accuray merger how do you view the opportunity to go after some of those vaults and importantly bringing UNIQUE to some of those customers to some of those low-energy vaults? Well TomoTherapy vaults yes people pull them out.
Some people have decided not to put them -- I mean they're putting TrueBeams in some of those things and some of them are putting 600 CEs in there.
UNIQUE is a potential opportunity for some of those sites and I have seen people express an interest in doing that sort of thing.
So the only places I think where we -- maybe something special would be required that like UNIQUE would be extremely small vaults in North America that's not really a big opportunity.
There are small vaults in North America but most of those small vaults are outside of North America.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one on capital deployment.
I think your Analyst Day back in May you'd kind of talked about ballpark $300 million to $400 million-type deals.
Obviously Calypso's much smaller.
So can you just talk to the extent you're still looking at M&amp;A? Yes I think I said $300 million in aggregate over several years right? I don't want to scare the heck out of everybody else on the thing.
Calypso is small.
We're still looking at a number of opportunities.
I think ultimately Augmenix can be big.
Right now it hasn't been approved for use in the U.S.
but ultimately I think it can be extremely important worldwide.
I think there's about 100 000 prostate patients treated in the United States every year with radiation therapy.
There's probably another 100 000 or so internationally and that number is going to grow.
So that represents a very large opportunity for us if we can get a good share.
And I think that there's maybe some Augmenix opportunities elsewhere in the body as well.
So I think Augmenix is probably already one of them.
It's just that you haven't seen the rest of the acquisition happen.
You've just seen the initial investment.
Calypso I think is important but is never going to be gigantic in terms of that number.
And there are a number of other acquisitions but for the most part they're not huge.
I mean they are -- I think some of them have big revenue torque but not very many.
But nonetheless I think I've got a list that adds up to $300 million.
That's going to be all the questions that we can take today.
I want to all thank you all very much for participating in the call and we're certainly happy and look forward to meeting with you next week in New York.
We will give you additional information.
Again that thing will be webcast as well.
This call has been recorded.
A replay can be heard on the Varian website where it will be archived for a year.
And if you want to hear a telephone replay you can dial 1 (888) 286-8010 from inside the U.S.
or 1 (617) 801-6888 from outside the U.S.
and entering confirmation code 14920221.
Telephone replay will be available through Friday and thank you very much for participating.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!