Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.’s Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2014 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in Bard's 2013 10-K including disclosure of the fact I am sorry the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 22 2014 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome you to Bard's third quarter 2014 earnings call and also thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I'd expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and the total call to last about an hour.
The agenda today will go as follows I'll begin with an overview of the results for the third quarter of 2014 John Weiland our President and COO will review the third quarter product line revenue John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline and then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will go through the third quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the fourth quarter and then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2014 net sales totaled $830 million that's up 9% over Q3 of last year on both an as-reported and a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was favorable by about 50 basis points.
The Gore royalty payment of $38 million contributed 500 basis points of growth to the quarter and then the net impact of acquisitions less the EP divestiture contributed about 30 basis points of revenue growth for the quarter which means that our organic growth for Q3 2014 was approximately 3.7%.
Looking at net income for the third quarter was $131.3 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.69.
Excluding items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover in more detail later.
Third quarter 2014 net income was $149.2 million and diluted earnings per share which exclude amortization of intangibles were $2.15 that’s up 22% and 28% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter of 2013 third quarter net sales in the U.S.
was up 13%.
Internationally we grew 1% on a constant currency basis with Europe growing 1% Japan declining 3% and other international businesses growing 4% for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales constant currency net sales in Q3 grew 6% in the U.S.
and 9% internationally with Europe growing 11% Japan growing 1% and our other international businesses growing 11%.
Emerging markets represented about 8.5% -- 8.5% of total sales this quarter which accelerated sequentially as we have projected.
Six quarter’s ago in Q1 of 2013 when we announced our strategic investment plan our organic growth rate was about flat.
As you know our plan included additional spending of approximately $70 million a year in both 2013 and this year 2014 in targeted emerging markets and R&amp;D projects with expected returns to begin in the back half of 2014.
We are obviously now in the back half of 2014 and I would tell you we are pleased with the execution of the strategic plan so far but of course we have a lot of work still in front of us to accomplish our objectives.
A key factor of the plan is to realign the portfolio toward faster revenue growth and you see that what’s happening.
We are seeing the initial returns from our investment plan and we expect accelerated organic revenue growth as we continue to execute.
So with that now let me turn you over to John Weiland for review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in the comparison to the prior period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 9% for the quarter or 10% on an as-reported basis with total sales of $231.5 million.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales total Vascular sales grew 2% globally with the United States business flat and the international business growing 5% in the quarter.
Sales in our Surgical Graft category were down 2% in Q3 consistent with recent experience.
Excluding the Gore royalty our Endovascular business increased 3% in third quarter within Endovascular our biopsy products grew 2% this quarter compared to Q3 of last year.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 9% with continued strength of Lutonix Drug Coated Balloon sales in Europe as a key driver of the global growth in this category.
We were very pleased with the early FDA approval on October 10th although Lutonix DCB in the United States we use in femoropopliteal arteries.
This first to market device provides clinicians and their parents -- and their patients with an important new treatment option and we have seen very good early interest so far.
The decline in our stent business moderated this quarter compared to recent quarters declining 3% in Q3.
We continue to expect significant pricing pressure in this product line.
And finally net sales in our vena cava filter line declined 1% in the third quarter.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $209.6 million up 8% versus Q3 of last year on both the constant currency and in as-reported basis with the products from the Rochester acquisition in Q4 of last year representing nearly all of the growth in the category.
United States business grew 5% while internationally we grew 14%.
Our Targeted Temperature Management products grew 7% this quarter including mid single-digit growth in the United States and strong double-digit growth internationally.
Our basic drainage business was up 6% globally in the third quarter with about 400 basis points related to the Rochester acquisition.
Excluding the product -- the acquired products the United States basic drainage business grew 2% this quarter which is consistent with recent quarters.
So we haven’t seen any notable increase in U.S.
volumes from daily Folye usage and we are not aware of any meaningful shifts in shares.
Our I.C.
Foley business was flat globally and down 2% in the United States.
Our continence business increased 36% in Q3 driven by the acquired products from Rochester.
Excluding those sales our legacy continence products declined 12% consistent with recent trends.
Sales in neurological specialties grew 6% in Q3 driven by the acquired products included in that subtotal our brachytherapy business was down by 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization product line declined 2% in Q3.
Now let’s go on Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $229.7 million an increase of 6% on a constant-currency basis and 7% on an as reported basis over Q3 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 6% and international sales were up 8%.
Our port business increased 1% again this quarter.
Our PICC revenue was up 10% in Q3 included strong results in the United States Europe and emerging markets again this quarter.
We were very pleased with the clinical adoption of our advanced technology which helps patients and can save time and cost for the hospital.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 16% this quarter related to the launch of our new Site-Rite Vision II system.
And our Dialysis Access product line was up 5% over Q3 of last year.
So let’s conclude now with our surgical specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $135.6 million up 15% on both the constant-currency and as-reported basis.
United States sales were up 16% and international sales grew 11% this quarter.
The Medafor acquisition which anniversaried on October 1st contributed approximately 12 percentage points of global growth to this category in Q3 and caused our portfolio of BioSurgery products to more than double compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 6% in the third quarter.
Within soft tissue our synthetic ventral repair products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
While our natural tissue products declined 22% as we continue to see a market shift the way from biologics.
With these changing dynamics we believe we’re well positioned with the most comprehensive product offering within hernia repair including our Phasix resorbable synthetic mesh.
Our hernia fixation business declined 5% this quarter consistent with recent experiences.
And closing out the surgical category our performance irrigation business was down 11% in Q3.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks and good afternoon everyone.
As John already stated our big news is the recent approval and launch of the Lutonix DCB for SFA and popliteal disease.
Beyond that product however we have a robust pipeline and some other exciting launches to tell you about today.
The first U.S.
launch of our drug-coated balloon technology is an important milestone but not a destination.
We’re diligently working to expand sizes and indications worldwide.
Excuse me we completed enrollment in our LEVANT 2 Japan study in June.
And we expect to submit next year for approval.
Enrollment continues in our IDE below the knee and in-stent restenosis studies and we’re working toward the initiation of an AV access IDE study with enrollment anticipated to start midyear 2015.
To complement our Lutonix launch we received clearance and are rolling out our new Ultraverse 035 family of PTA balloons with our new GEOALIGN technology.
GEOALIGN is a new marking system on the catheter that’s designed to simplify placement and track catheter movement to reduce procedure time and radiation exposure.
Also in vascular we received CE Mark approval for the new LifeStream Balloon Expandable Stent Graft and launched in Europe earlier this month.
We also began enrollment a few days ago in the LifeStream IDE where we’re studying the use of the device in the treatment of iliac artery disease.
Finally in vascular we are awaiting FDA clearance to begin the launch of the first in the series of new True Flow PTA catheters for use in valvuloplasty procedures.
True Flow is designed to treat cardiac valve disease without the need for rapid pacing required to reduce cardiac output during balloon inflation with other valvuloplasty catheters.
True Flow is designed to allow blood flow to past to a large channel in the center of the balloon promoting prolonged inflation to potentially improve efficacy and reduce complications associated with rapid pacing.
Next moving to our urology business.
We launched DIGNISHIELD with medication delivery and our new solo hybrid guidewires since the last call.
In our targeted temperature management portfolio we’ve launched our new pad systems for use with neonates and pediatric patients this past quarter in Japan as well as neonatal kit in Russia.
We waive regulatory clearance to launch the product here in the U.S.
We’re also on track to launch a new software upgrades with enhanced functionality and additional international language support later this quarter.
Moving to oncology we’re waiting U.S.
regulatory clearance to allow the launch of our Freehand Stereotactic System for vascular access named Pinpoint GT.
This first launch of the technology is expected to rollout on a new ultrasound platform around the middle of next year.
The system is designed to improve the success of first attempt needlestick access across multiple clinical applications.
The technology is also backwards compatible to the installed basis to Site-Rite 6 Site-Rite Vision 1 and Vision 2 systems.
In PICCs we’re tracking toward expected clearance of our first family of thromboresistant catheters in the first half of 2015.
We planned to broaden the thromboresistant offering to our full line of PICCs over the course of the following quarters.
Similarly we anticipate launching our first antimicrobial PICC in the second half of 2015 subject to regulatory clearance followed by a series of launches to support coated PICCs in our popular PowerPICC and PowerPICC SOLO configurations.
We’re also progressing on our entirely new PICC platform we believe will be the foundation for several new product family.
We now anticipate launching our first product to mid next year.
For competitive reasons we may continue to hold the details back until that first launch.
In June we mentioned the development of our next generation PowerGlide Midline Catheter family.
And I’m pleased to report we’re making steady progress and anticipate a first product launch in the second half of next year.
This new generation of PowerGlide builds on our simplified insertion technique in all-in-one design to enhance in fusion therapy for patients who need venous access for up to 29 days but don’t need access through the central circulation.
I’ll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
And I’m pleased to announce the recent clearance of the first ever antibiotic quoted biologic mesh XenMatrix AB.
We’ve talked about the development over the past several calls and I’m excited to tell you that we’ll begin the rollout of XenMatrix AB later in Q4.
XenMatrix AB utilizes our proprietary coding which is intended to preserve the integrity of the BioLogic graft and abdominal wall reconstruction procedures and as demonstrated broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically encountered bacteria.
Moving to our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel Sealant seeking to expand use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
Our filing was on schedule and we remain optimistic for our first half 2015 approval and launch.
Next we’re just a few patients from completing enrollment in our vascular sealant pivotal IDE.
This study should expand our indications beyond thoracic surgery to include vascular applications of Progel.
We now anticipate submission of our PMA in the first half of 2015 which is about a quarter ahead of our previous schedule with potential approval early to mid 2016 depending upon the regulatory review path.
And finally in mesh fixation we remain on track to launch our first spring-loaded resorbable pack device named OPTIFIX in the first half of 2015.
We also anticipate launching another fixation platform later in the year but given the highly competitive nature of the space we’ll hold further details on device specifics until closer to launch.
The products discussed today represent just a few of the highlights of our new product pipeline.
I look forward to discussing these in further detail and introducing others in the coming quarters.
Thanks very much for your attention.
I’ll hand the discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let’s start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had a net benefit in our acquisition-related items of $1.2 million driven by a favorable purchase accounting adjustment.
We took a $6.2 million charge for an asset impairment and a $1.7 million charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
Last quarter we told you about the judge’s order and the women’s health litigation that we work up 200 cases simultaneously which has now been increased to 500 cases.
The charge in Q3 for those expenses was $13.2 million.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes of the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $521.1 million or 62.8% of sales for Q3.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $518.5 million or 62.5% of sales up a 100 basis points from the prior year with a 180 basis points of benefit coming from the Gore royalty.
New amortization of intangibles related to transactions closed in the last 12 months was about 70 basis points again this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 130 basis points on a revenue line and about 40 basis points in gross profit which we were more than able to offset with about 70 basis points in cost savings.
Next in FX where each headwinds of about 20 basis points this quarter.
So our gross margins improve sequentially over Q2 as we projected and we expect Q4 on an adjusted basis to be an improvement over Q3.
So right now it looks like we are going to exceed our original gross margin guidance for the full year.
SG&amp;A expenses were $242 million for the quarter or 29.2% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29.1% no change from Q3 of 2013.
We continued to invest significantly in emerging markets and the early approval of Lutonix will drive some additional launch expenses into 2014.
So we are now projecting to be around 29.5% of sales for the full year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $73.1 million or 8.8% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D was $65.9 million or 7.9% of sales and we continue to project to be around 8% for the full year.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the third quarter no change from the prior year.
Other income and expense was $14.5 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and about a $0.5 million of income on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.5% and with the higher mix of U.S.
income and originally projected we now expect the effective tax rate for the full year to be around 25% assuming the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in Q4.
Diluted shares for the period were 76.3 million as we did not repurchased any shares in the third quarter.
I will remind you that we were active with repurchases in the first half of the year and we continue to have a little over $500 million of authorization for additional repurchases.
And that result is adjusted EPS for Q3 of $2.15 well above the guidance range we provided for the quarter driven by the higher sales.
The balance sheet as of September 30th reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.04 billion versus $1.01 billion at June 30th.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were down 1.3 days and inventory days were up 0.1 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $34.4 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of September 30th compared to $1.6 billion at June 30th.
Debt to total capital at the end of the third quarter was about 43% and total shareholder investment was $1.8 billion at September 30th.
Now moving to financial guidance.
For Q4 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 8.5% and 9.5% with about a 100 basis points of headwind from FX on a reported basis.
At this point if rates stay where they are we expect the impact to 2015 net sales to also be around 100 basis points of headwind.
Included in the Q4 sales guidance is a headwind of about 50 basis points from the net impact in the quarter from our 2013 business development activity.
It’s been a benefit during the first three quarters of 2014 but flips to a headwind in Q4 now that the Loma Vista and Medafor acquisitions are both out of the calculation and the impact from the EP divestiture outweighs the partial quarter from the Rochester acquisition.
From an EPS standpoint excluding the items affecting comparability we are raising our full year guidance to between $8.34 and $8.38 which puts Q4 between $2.22 and $2.26.
This includes about $0.06 from the assumed renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit and incremental headwind from FX of about $0.02.
So those of you wondering about the FX headwind on 2015 we would estimate that to be around $0.10 given today’s rates.
Finally as I mentioned due to the early Lutonix approval we have significant launch expense in Q4.
So we expect the incremental EPS impact from the early launch of Lutonix to be about neutral to Q4 2014.
With that I will turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the large number of investors on the call I'd ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thanks.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay? We can Bob.
Fine Bob.
Great.
Good afternoon.
So two questions one for Tim and one for Chris.
First Tim I realized you were asked this question last quarter but it’s a strategy question and a lot has happened in the last quarter in med tech.
So historically you guys have been very consistent when it comes to your M&amp;A strategy but I just -- you were compelled to ask the question in terms of how that might evolve going forward given all the consolidation that we are seeing in the marketplace and given the change we are seeing going along the hospital level? So I guess my question is are you more likely to consider potential larger transactions or is a larger deal no more likely than it would have been a year ago? Yeah.
I would say what’s going on within the sector doesn’t really impact our views strategically on acquisitions generally or the size of them.
I think it’s one of the advantages of -- frankly the product leadership strategy that we’ve had in place for a number of years as you know we are number one and number two in a large percentage of our revenue 80% or so totally so.
When you maintain that kind of position and work hard towards that the aspect of others consolidating doesn’t really have much of an impact on new strategy or shift there might be.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then for Chris just a question on 2015.
You guys have been providing us at least some color historically on 2015 thoughts and I realize there is a few moving parts but it seems like you may have pretty significant amount of operating leverage next year.
And so I just wanted to get a sense for kind of any thoughts you would be willing to give on operating margin leverage goals for next year and just how you are thinking about next year relative to the performance you are delivering here year-to-date in 2014 which of course is a little ahead of consensus thinking? So I’m just looking for any updated thoughts on ’15 especially as it relates to operating leverage goals.
Sure Bob.
I am certainly not going to give 2015 guidance today so hopefully you understand that.
I think we continue to be very focused on and Tim laid it out in his prepared remarks.
We are year and half into executing the strategic investment plan.
I think we’ve done everything we said we would up until now.
We certainly understand that 2015 is a very important year.
We continue to accelerate organic growth as we said we would this year.
That continues to be the objective going forward.
And we’ve talked about ’15 being a year that does have significant operating leverage with the Gore royalty having being anniversaried at that point.
So we are focused on doing everything we said we would.
I am not going to give guidance today but we are focused on finishing 2014 strongly.
We certainly delivered and exceeded the commitments we made to you on ’14.
And hopefully you will tune in at the end of January and we can talk about 2015 guidance.
Fantastic to those two.
Thanks.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Chris a follow-up to that on the Gore royalty.
It seems like $38 million has been about the number.
Is that what we should have in our models? And then do you have any updated thoughts on the durability of that royalty looking forward? Yes.
I think we continue to think obviously 35 to 40 as a reasonable number.
I would -- we are certainly focused at the low end of that range.
That’s what we talked about coming into the year.
And we continue to think about it that way.
We don’t have any update frankly with respect to the durability of that royalty.
We as we talked about would expect it to decline over time but there is really no additional information.
Again we are focused on things we can control.
We recognize there is potential variability in that number which is we hope you will understand that we continue to guidance within a range on the top and bottomline.
But it will be something that will take quarter by quarter.
And again we are focused on doing things that strengthen the organic engine of the business such that over time the royalty obviously is a much less meaningful component of the P&amp;L.
Thanks.
And then follow-up to that.
You guys are throwing up obviously a ton of cash.
We talked about M&amp;A.
Maybe for John Weiland or Tim can you talk about maybe organic investment opportunities be it emerging markets or throwing a little bit more money at sales or R&amp;D? Kind of what are you seeing as the big opportunities in the current portfolio? Let me maybe I will describe our process how we work that and John can maybe give you a little more detail.
We for years now have had a process where every quarter we have a standing queue of additional investments we would make once we get comfortable with where we’re going to be for the quarter.
They are pretty much longer profile of the investments we made in the past R&amp;D and sales force expansion.
So we are kind of standby ready to go and it’s a regular part of our business process here to be able to turn spending on incrementally over and above what our individual businesses’ P&amp;Ls.
So we are set to go to move pretty quickly on that.
I will turn it over to John.
I think the only thing I would add to that as you may recall we added approximately 200 physicians in 2013 primarily focused on the emerging market side of it and really focused on the end of the year.
We have continued to add physicians into those markets this year.
So you are going to -- you are seeing in the SG&amp;A a component of the growth of those heads that we added last year as well as from the sales forces that we added this year.
So we continue to invest in those opportunities as we see the opportunities present themselves.
So safe to say emerging markets top of the list.
I mean could you give us any view on what might be number two or number three on the list? Well I would start by saying we are trying for higher and faster run rate growth.
So that kind of the top filter that we go through where each of those individual components fit within that are obviously prioritized but I am safe to say there is emerging markets is pretty high.
As you know the return on that will be faster than on some of the R&amp;D investments but we are kind of looking at all fronts and not just singularly focused on any one.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
I recognized that it’s extremely early in the U.S.
launch for the Lutonix DCB.
But I am just curious sort of what you’re hearing from the field and specifically how the messaging is going to the physicians relative to the nuisance of the LEVANT 2 study? I think that we are very encouraged with what we see early on in the marketplace.
The physicians that we’ve had the opportunity to spend time with all see the value of DCBs in their practice.
I would also say that I am not sure if you noticed or not but when we received the approval on Friday we actually started shipping product on Friday and actually did our first cases on Saturday.
So I think that it was obvious to us that the marketplace and patients were waiting for this therapy and we are delighted the way it’s started.
Okay terrific.
And then Tim you are coming up on the anniversary of the Rochester Medical acquisition so I would be curious your thoughts on kind of how you think the first year went with that organization in place and how you are thinking about again the opportunities to move outside of the hospital and build that side of your business as you move into 2015? Sure.
I will answer part of that and then I will turn it over to Chris to answer the other part.
Generally speaking we are pleased with the piece of the integration the acceptance of the technology and our organization capability development as it relates to the homecare market in that regard.
I think we have expanded our capabilities both outside the U.S.
in that area taking advantage of the breadth that we have in terms of just critical mass and continuing to move forward.
And we do expect that to be an ongoing trend in the U.S.
in terms of the shift of treatment out of hospitals more to the home.
So generally speaking we are pretty pleased with the acquisition so far.
Yes.
I think the integration has gone well.
We are tracking nicely relative to our model.
I think we are further appreciating some of the global expansion opportunities with the portfolio more broadly across Europe frankly and we are working on some expansion plans as we speak.
I think bringing together the portfolio in the U.S.
has gone well and is giving us an important new way to speak to urologists and to frankly partner with the DMEs in the way we haven’t historically.
And we are also frankly looking at different sales channels into some of the rehab centers and some of the market categories that Rochester hadn’t been focused on as a standalone company.
So I think there is a lot to still do in the core of what we acquired and what we already had.
We are continuing to assess other product opportunities and service opportunities even more broadly outside of urology but I think there is a lot to do and a lot of growth to get within the core franchise.
And as we look at adjacencies if you can find opportunities that make sense we will pursue them but I think that’s going to be over the more medium and long term since there is plenty to do with the existing.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Sure Larry.
Thank you.
We have a question from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
The two questions.
So the first question is the geographic performance.
So if we look at what I think you said your revenue growth was ex the Gore royalty and ex the M&amp;A activity.
Your growth has really been led by the U.S.
and it doesn’t really look like you are getting the contribution yet from the emerging markets piece of the business.
So maybe just talk a little bit about that because I think we would have looked back 18 months ago I think we would have thought that emerging markets would have been given the size of the company would be driving the growth and the U.S.
would have been growing still relatively low single digits.
So it’s good news but obviously the U.S.
has accelerated the way it has but the second piece of it seems like there still some opportunity there in emerging markets which hasn’t yet been realized.
Yes.
Mike I think part of what you need to remember is emerging markets is still a relatively small part of the portfolio.
It think it’s growing very well.
It’s up to 8.5% of sales even after the divestiture of EP which is showing frankly significant momentum over the last year or so.
I think again the U.S is so dominant and prominent in the portfolio that as the U.S does better it obviously makes it harder for even a very strong performance in emerging markets to move the needle as much as you might like.
But I think we’re very bullish about where we are in the emerging markets how we’ve executed in the emerging markets and the runway we still have and listen I’d love for increase contribution from emerging markets to be harder to get because the U.S is growing faster than we might have thought it would.
That’s going to be great for the company.
So I would disagree a bit with the characterization.
I think we’re executing exactly the way we thought.
It’s going to continue to become more prominent.
But the flipside and good news to that is the U.S is doing a little bit better than we thought as well.
So Chris really and so there you guys break it out with that the different buckets and other international.
So there is basically the adult call it developed world outside of the U.S is weighing down the international performance.
So we’re not really seeing the impact in the emerging market because of that as you are saying? I think obviously there are certain geographies.
We -- Europe is actually growing nicely even on organic basis.
Obviously the Rochester acquisitions are significant contributor there but even excluding that we’re continuing to see nice organic growth in Europe largely driven by Lutonix and frankly our success in increasing PICC penetration.
I’m not exactly sure what you’re focused on.
I think other international… Yeah.
I was just… Yeah.
Other international when you exclude… … revenue growth there.
When you exclude the impact of EP divestiture is up 11% and obviously emerging markets is driving that growth to a very significant degree.
Yeah.
Let me ask one strategic question for Tim.
And so Tim this is really a different question than Bob’s earlier on and if you look at the deals that have been done in the sector or contemplate in the sector over the last nine months most of them are primarily financial deals the strategic piece would seem to be secondary? And when I say the financial deal the big part of that is probably I’m saying is that you had management teams you had board that have looked opportunistically to create shareholder value utilizing the balance sheets and utilizing certain opportunities that you have to borrow at relatively low rate and then due immediately accretive transactions and set themselves up the multiple years of double-digit EPS growth? Does that type of transaction still not appeal to you? One that have been announced and that separate from the strategic question and the value of them but we have to create a shareholder value through this financially very attractive deals that some of your counterparts are doing? Yeah.
I think it’s a great question.
I think our eyes are wide open.
On one hand we’re very focused on revenue growth and we’re big believer that that creates a lot of shareholder value with that and clearly the investments we’ve made over the last several years have all been focused towards that.
On the other hand we understand the impact of leverage and accretion and trying to pull something else into our financials or operations and grinding it out that way.
I think the question is in our view how does that set you up for growth going forward? And that’s a longer term view.
And then I think it’s important that you need to take a balance look and understanding both of those things.
So again never to say never on anything relative to a deal but I think we do a pretty good job of keeping our eyes wide open in terms of assessing both kinds of transactions.
If you want to look at one is being more revenue driven the other one is being just more accretion driven.
Chris I think you want to add.
Yeah.
And I would say we’re not against or afraid of those types of transactions.
Particularly in some cases its lot easier.
And certainly we consider them and we will continue to consider them and if we find one that we think make sense we’ll pursue it obviously not without risk.
And I think the Tim’s point whatever we do we certainly would hope on top of nice financial accretion over some short period of time.
We’d be able to strengthen the portfolio as you think about how it’s going to be able to grow organically long-term.
And we’re open to it.
We look at everything.
We consider everything and we’re certainly focused on driving shareholder value at the end of the day.
And if we find things that we think make sense we absolutely are not afraid of pursuing them and doing them.
That’s great.
Thank you guys.
Sure.
Sure.
Thank you.
And we’ll go next to Dave Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Is our understanding you guys have invested a lot in that Lutonix launch.
And I was wondering if you will be willing to share maybe in some incremental details with us.
Either docs targeted how many of these guys you know already your sales force size? And then maybe even coders or even the timeline of those coders in terms of the production you’re looking for?  I’m going to give you the first five pages of our playbook here but Dave we really can’t.
I will tell you we have a very integrated playbook.
Our teams are fully trained.
Our targets are established.
We’re active in the field.
All of us are engaged the senior leaders in the organization.
I would say the best way for I -- that we could characterize this is it’s probably one of the largest launches we’ve had as a corporation.
We recognize that when we resource that appropriately.
The only think I would add is obviously with any PMA approval product.
You have some period of time to prepare for this.
So it’s not like -- it’s not upon us your -- so we've had a lot of prep time.
We actually have conducted senior management reviews of the launch program well in advance of a year prior to the approval and we’ve gone through iterations of that.
So we’re all pretty well familiar with what’s been going on.
And I can tell you that I would be hard pressed to find somebody to come in here and tell us that there is something we have thought about relative to launching product.
Thank you.
And I guess just as a quick follow-up.
Any noticeable I’m imaging you’re still adding some flows but any noticeable uptick and maybe some quality reps from some of your bigger peripheral competitors who may now need to divest some assets? Thanks a lot.
No obvious change in that issue in the marketplace from our perspective.
We certainly have our eyes and ears open but we’ve not noticed anything significant.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to go back to confirm did you guys did no share repurchases in the quarter? Is that correct? Yeah.
That’s right Kristen.
Okay.
I was just curious as to why when I look back I guess it’s over the last 12 quarters or so there has been pretty consistent share repurchase activity.
It was just a pause for any particular reason or how should we just think about that? I know in the last quarter or two you had mentioned that you had finished the redeployment of cash from the Gore settlement.
I’m just wondering how should we think about share repurchases going forward?  So obviously to that point Kristen we were aggressive doing the first half of the year as we completed the commitment we had made around Gore.
Frankly as we got towards the end of Q2 went into early Q3 post the panel and while we are in very interactive review with the FDA it became clear that an earlier approval of Lutonix was possible.
And upon the PMA being approved we had a $100 million milestone payment which you guys all know.
So that’s something we had very good visibility.
That was going to be coming in the October timeframe.
So that’s an allocation of cash flow and capital that we’ve deployed.
So as we talk about visibility to pipeline and M&amp;A opportunities factoring into the gating of our repurchase activity that’s the way you should think about that.
But we’ll continue to be active.
We have 529 million of authorization remaining as we sit here today.
And again the commitment around returning free cash flow to shareholders to the extent we can find more productive ways or better ways to invest it is something that obviously we’ve shown through nine months in 2014.
So I think it’s really just a combination of those factors but you should expect to see us to continue to be active on a go-forward basis.
Perfect.
And then just on the guidance I think you touched back this on a prior question but did you specifically break out what your assumption is for Gore and underlying growth for the fourth quarter on an organic basis? I know there is something about headwinds net of the divestiture would be about like 50 basis points.
But what are you expecting for organic growth? And Tim maybe if you can maybe comment on the overall environment.
You seem to suggest that you didn’t see any noticeable uptick with respect to the Foley business though there is some other companies out there saying they are seeing some modest increase in utilization.
Thanks.
All right.
So Kristen I think the way to think about it is 8.5 to 9.5 of constant currency which included a 50 basis point headwind from the business development activity.
So you are at 9 to 10.
I think from a rounding standpoint you would think of Gore is 4.5%to 5% of that growth.
So you are really in the 4% to 5% organic range toward Q4 is the way I bracketed for you.
Okay.
And in terms of the environment it’s a -- kind of a mixed pack.
When Chris talked about emerging markets obviously we are seeing good underlying growth within those markets that continues.
And the U.S.
is kind of a mixture of lot of different things that I’m not sure will provide anymore clarity than what we’ve seen in prior quarters.
As you mentioned the Foley line which is more of an in-hospital admission oriented product line for us.
From the way that it did and as procedures move where patients are treated outside the hospital all that means for us is our sales people move from a hospital setting to some place else.
So it’s just really hard to say right now.
It feels a little bit -- perhaps that the volumes have come back a little bit.
But when you look at our peer group as you all do we see mixed bag in some of those results as well.
So hard to predict feels like it might be getting a little bit better but hard for us to pinpoint any metric to tell you with a lot uncertainty that’s the case.
Great.
Congratulations again on the early approval of Lutonix.
I’m sure a lot of work went into that.
Thanks Kristen.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We have a question now from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead please.
Hi there.
Guys it’s actually Chris Hammond in for David.
My first question I wanted to circle back to Brooks’s question regarding the existing product portfolio and where you guys are really focusing on.
And if I think back to beginning when you laid out your initial strategic plan back in the first quarter of last year you had really set the goals around trying to get back to or above market growth rates.
But looking at other companies that have really reported thus far it seems to us on average that most of these companies are starting to grow now in the 5% to 6% organic growth range.
And you guys have had clear uptick in performance.
I think it was just like 0.5% growth first quarter than just over 3% last quarter or 3.7%.
This quarter there is a lot of acceleration there.
But there is still seems to be a few -- a couple hundred more basis points in order to get back to sort of that market growth rates.
So if I can -- thinking about Brook’s question but just pegging in a different way.
If you really had to anchor to your top three or four best shots on goal where do you think you can drive the needle is that Lutonix Progel new PICCs et cetera what’s really going to move the dial here? Yeah.
Well first of all let me just comment on your assessment of the external environment on a competitive landscape.
That’s not the numbers we have.
I referenced it a moment ago answering a question where we said that yeah we are seeing mixed results.
Organic growth rates from other companies than U.S.
and that’s exactly it.
There are very few companies with an organic growth rate of close to 6% as you talked about.
So you can get to Todd Garner later and try to get clarification there but that’s not what we are seeing.
Secondly as it relates to our growth opportunities the one thing about us or a thing about us we talk about often is we are not about one big thing.
We are about a lot of little things.
You heard John DeFord giving update of the various status of -- not even half of the things that we’ve got going.
All of those directed at faster growing opportunities than what we are growing as an overall company.
So clearly he hit the highlights.
That’s kind of the point why we haven’t gone through that section.
But we are optimistic about all the investments that we’ve made that we’ve laid out over the last several calls to begin.
Okay.
Great.
That’s very help -- they are very very helpful.
And just as a quick follow-up.
You’ve seen pretty good EBIT leverage this year from the Gore transaction but can you give us a little bit of prospective on what’s the forward potential for EBIT leverage as this Gore contribution starts to normalize? Looking at what’s kind of the normal run rate of expansion that we should expect through the next couple of years? Yeah I think Chris certainly ‘15 will show continued nice improvement in leverage.
We talked about focusing on returning to 2012 levels over time that’s what we’re working on doing.
Obviously there has been dilution associated with the business development activity which I think we walked everybody through.
That will take some time for us to overcome.
But the by and large the new products both acquired and invested in our higher gross margin products.
That’s a clear intent of the investments are continuing to try to drive gross margins higher through cost improvement initiative obviously price continues to be a headwind and probably will be for as far as we can see.
But clearly the infrastructures that we’ve been building in particular in emerging markets will drive significantly improved drop through over time as we continue to fill their bags with products through registrations.
And we don’t need to invest in the same level of growth in SG&amp;A while revenue should continue to grow at attractive rate.
So we’re focused on driving leverage improvements year after year and that’s certainly part of the model and that’s certainly part of the commitment that we’ve made.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
I appreciate the questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
And two questions.
One maybe to begin with Tim or Chris can you may be provide a little bit more detail on the hernia claims that you filed in the July Q.
The number jumped out a bit and one of your competitors seem to have a pretty large settlement in Texas.
So maybe where the current reserves are as it relates to the hernia claims and how you see those cases sort of playing out overtime and then one follow-up on vascular? Thanks.
Anthony I assume you are referring to the women’s health-related litigation That’s correct.
Yeah.
So we’ll file our Q in the next couple of days so you’ll get updated disclosure.
Obviously we are well aware of what is going on with respect to the litigation more broadly across the industry.
Obviously by the fact that we didn’t take an incremental reserve this quarter by definition means that we are comfortable with how we are currently reserved based on everything we know.
That’s something we continue to evaluate.
Obviously in Q2 you did see us enter into a meaningful settlement as well and -- we are certainly as we move forward going to manage that exposure the best we can on behalf of share holders and that will be through a combination of continuing to litigate aggressively and obviously settling to the extent that we can do so what we see as appropriate and reasonable level.
So there will be more to come clearly over the coming quarters for us and others.
But it’s obviously something that we’re focused on in working hard at putting behind us the best where we can for the company.
All right.
it’s helpful and just on vascular broadly may be John DeFord or Weiland if you can go in to how you see the landscape playing out in the U.S if we consider peripheral interventions.
Now we have drug-eluting stents available bare metal stance and now of course Lutonix.
So may be when you consider all of those technologies now available in the market place how do you sort of see share ships playing out amongst the categories?.
But we are not really saying there is going to be -- we talked about this last quarter.
We are not -- we have not really thought that there is going to be a significant share shift.
We think that drug-eluting balloons can be used adjunctively to a lot of other therapies that are around in the market place today.
And we think there is some unique patient benefits associated with it.
And our job is really to grow our portfolio of products within our vascular business by coming out with new products new indications that have significant meeting the clinicians and patients and that’s exactly what we will do.
And I’d evidence that by FLUENCY Plus which we launched in the second quarter.
The light stand additions which John talked about in his prepared remarks and that is really meant to give us momentum across the product lines within vascular while have to jump to broke coming out of our DCB launch? And so John DeFord here just a couple of other quick points Lifestream which is our balloon expandable stent graft.
It’s another device we just launched in Europe but going back to the drug coated balloon we do think over time that drug-coated balloon will be the primary initial therapy.
We think that DCB will ultimately replace standard PTA as kind of standard of care as a first line.
And then if you don’t get an optimal result we think -- or you don’t think you can get optimal result we think atherectomy will still be used in patient stencils still be used.
We think overtime with the kind of results that we’ve seen with our technology and re- intervention rates so they’re virtually identical to stent alone that you’d see this as the first-line therapy.
And then in the event you get recoil significant dissection or something like that it might go to a stent to another technology.
No it’s helpful.
Maybe -- is atherectomy an area you think you need to fill? We were constantly looking at all the different technologies and where we think it would make sense for us to be involved and where we think we could meaningfully add to patient treatment and clinician needs.
So never say never we’re always looking.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a question from Matthew O'Brien with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
For John DeFord can you give us a sense for when we should anticipate seeing the 24-month data from Lutonix? Sure.
As we said on one of our previous calls late this month is sort of the absolute earliest.
So if you think about we have a two-month follow-up window.
Last enrollment was in July.
So end of September would be last follow-up.
And I can confirm that we have at this date all of our two-year follow-ups have taken place and all of our one-year follow-ups have actually taken place now for our continued access registry so that additional 657 patient.
So now it’s a matter of getting them monitored.
We have a unique aspect of the LEVANT 2 study where every adverse event is adjudicated by the clinical events committee.
That’s a little bit burdensome frankly but that’s the way that study was designed.
So that’s also in process right now to try to get that done.
So we think the best case sort of late November early December we could have data available and scrubbed for two year and then it’s a matter of when is the best time we have around that to disclose.
So I can say that there is discussions going on and we are not holding anything back.
We think frankly what we’ve seen so far is very good durability of results but we don’t want to give you initial numbers and then updated numbers and then final numbers.
We want to just give you a one set of numbers.
We think that’s going to be -- technically we should have it in our hands around the end of November early December.
And then it’s just when is the right time to present.
Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up on Lutonix.
And just another question was asked before as far as the rollout goes.
I mean fairly early in the quarter where you’ve got that improved and you mentioned John Weiland that you already saw in the product.
And I’m assuming that the investment here that you’re going to make for the quarter is going to be pretty sizeable but just still kind of guiding to neutral impact to earnings.
So would it be reasonable to assume that the revenue contribution in Q4 would be something around 1% of revenues maybe something north of that?  Yeah.
I think Matt I mean obviously we didn’t get it in the beginning of the quarter right.
And I think that’s the reasonable number to think about if perhaps we had a full quarter and if perhaps we had the quarter two ourselves.
I think it’s certainly fair to assume that we might not even have all of Q4 to ourselves when you think about the competitors’ potential timeline.
So I think so on a very high side that that’s probably reasonable again with the full quarter and with the full quarter alone.
Since I think we’re not quite talking about that you’re probably talking about something slightly below that number.
Okay.
So when you talk about the neutrality of the earnings then that’s inclusive of any kind of cannibalization or potentially the competitor getting to market maybe in December? Yeah.
Got it.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
We will go next to Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for squeezing me in.
Just the two quick ones.
You mentioned pricing -- ongoing pricing pressures I was just wondering if you could update us there any delta or changes for prior quarters and what you’re seeing out there? Then I have a follow-up.
Yeah.
So for the quarter as we said we’re 130 basis points on the topline.
Year-to-date we’re about a 110.
We’ve talked about this new -- unfortunately new normal of sort of 100 to 150 basis points.
So we’re continuing to be in that range.
It really highlights the criticality of having product leadership and I think the Lutonix DCB is a great example of how you fight against price overtime by having really differentiated technology.
So unfortunately we’re managing in that environment that’s what we expect to deal with going forward.
So I’d say that there has been no real change over the medium term.
And as we said here today we’re going to be where we thought we would be relative to our guidance for the full year somewhere between 1 and 150 basis points.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then just on R&amp;D just it was a bit below what we’re looking for.
And is that push-out I think you got it to greater than 8% previously and now you’re saying it’s expected to bounce back to 8%.
Just any comments there on that.
Yeah.
Sure 7.9 for the quarter and frankly we’ve exceeded the topline.
And the nature of those investments are not as we exceed the topline we can immediately increase R&amp;D spend versus that.
So I think an 8% number for the full year in an environment where we’re going to have nicely exceeded the topline for the full year makes sense to us.
And certainly when you think about the level of spend on a dollar basis it’s dramatically higher than it was in 2012 when we embarked on this plan.
So we’re spending what we really planned on spending.
The percentage being somewhat lower really is primarily related to the fact that the topline is higher than we had thought.
Well and there were a few timing issues.
So R&amp;D isn’t completely smooth.
We have clinical trial expense that kind of bumps around and we’ve direct project expense that again kind of moves around.
And so I think that all-in-all we’re where we need to be where we want to be.
I always asked for more.
So we’re always negotiating for the next step.
We’ve plenty of good ideas in the pipeline and we are after it.
Hey operator we’re seven minutes past the hour.
I apologies to those in queue but we’re going to take one more question and then wrap it up.
Okay.
That will come from Michael Matson with Needham &amp; Company.
Go ahead please.
Thanks for fitting me in.
I guess I have two questions.
The first just to be Lutonix for the potential label expansions or indication expansions below-the-knee and in-stent restenosis.
Can you just gives us an update on where you’re with involvement and what the pathway with you with the FDA to get those approved? And then my second question which is the what sort of impact do you expect from the new coatings on the PICC products the thromboresistant antimicrobial is that something you think you can get a pricing premium for so it would be a mix driver?  Okay.
Let me jump in first with that BTK and ISR and our work to expand the indications for the drug-coated balloon.
Frankly BTK is a tough enrolling study.
Some of that we think is a little bit of chill effect based on the recall of the competitive product that was on the market.
And so that’s -- enrollment in that study is slower than we’d like for sure although we’re making good progress.
We’ve continued to try to work through FDA and work with investigator to find the appropriately patient mix to drive reasonable enrollment.
But that’s a little slower that we’d like.
In-stent restenosis a little bit easier to enroll but also challenging primarily around the fact that there are lot long length stents with restenosis that again we’ve got to work with the agency to try to figure out the right way to enroll all of those patients.
And I think we’re fully focused on doing what we can to expand those indications.
It’s going to take some time.
I think our AV access study that I said that we anticipate starting enrollment mid next year.
We think that’s probably a faster enrolling study.
And so we’re going to be focused on getting that out there as well.
The coatings let me ask John again turn over to John Weiland to talk about.
We do believe that any of the new coatings that we come to the market with on our PICC products will all be creative to the normal standard ASPs that we have today.
All right.
Thank you.
Welcome Mike.
Okay.
I guess that concludes the Q&amp;A.
Thanks for all your patience.
Sorry if we weren’t able to squeeze somebody in.
With that I’d just like to thank all of you for joining us today.
And as I always do thank Bard employees around the world for all of their hard work and commitment not only for the quarter but for the entire year.
Thanks everybody.
Have a good night.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.