Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CR Bard Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference will be recorded -- is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on management's current expectations.
The accuracy of these statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as anticipate estimate expect project intend forecast plan believe and other words of similar meaning.
Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product development sales efforts income tax matters and outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings.
The uncertainty of loss reserve estimates share repurchases acquisitions and other economic business competitive and regulatory factors.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30 2014 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2013 10-Q including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product categories.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures with respect to the company's historical financial results are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of January 29 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to prior -- are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the conference over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
That's a lot of work there I appreciate it.
I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
I would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 35 minutes or so.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the fourth quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review fourth quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
And then Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the fourth quarter income statement balance sheet and also provide our financial guidance for 2015.
And then finally we'll wrap it up with Q&amp;A.
Fourth quarter 2014 net sales totaled $867.2 million that's up 10% over Q4 last year on an as-reported basis and up 11% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter of 2013 was unfavorable by about 140 basis points.
The Gore royalty revenue in the quarter was approximately $38.6 million.
The impact of the divestiture of our EP business which occurred in Q4 2013 net of the impact of the Rochester Medical acquisition in the same quarter was unfavorable by about 20 basis points to growth for the quarter.
That all puts our organic growth rate for Q4 2014 at approximately 6.3% with a little over 200 basis points from the early approval and launch of the Lutonix drug-coated PTA balloon in the U.S.
Net sales for the full year 2014 were $3.3 billion that's up 9% as reported and on a constant currency basis which exceeded our original guidance for the year.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $134.2 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.72.
I'll remind you that we recognized the onetime gain from the Gore litigation in the prior year quarter.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability results between periods which Chris will cover later fourth quarter 2014 net income and diluted cash earnings per share which excludes amortization of intangibles were $158.9 million and $2.29 that's up 39% and 40% respectively.
Full year 2014 net income was $294.5 million and diluted EPS were $3.76.
Excluding items again that affect comparability between periods full year 2014 net income was $586 million and diluted cash EPS were $8.40 and that's up 23% and 29% respectively from 2013.
Again well in excess of our original guidance for the year.
Looking at fourth quarter revenue growth geographically compared to the prior year on a constant currency basis net sales in the U.S.
grew 14%.
Internationally we grew 5% with Europe up 3%; Japan up 2% and our other international geographies up 8%.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the EP divestiture impact net sales in the U.S.
grew 7% and total international sales were up 10% with Europe up 10%; Japan up 3%; and the remaining geographies up 11%.
As anticipated in our strategic investment plan our emerging market sales continued to increase and represented about 9% of our total revenue in Q4.
Looking back on 2014 we're pleased with the progress that we've made throughout the year.
2 years ago to remind you we introduced our 3-year strategic investment plan and then that same quarter our organic growth rate was flat.
We finished 2014 with our organic growth rate of our other portfolio in the mid single digits which is what we had projected.
It's difficult to know precisely what's happening in real time in the underlying markets but we believe the market organic growth continues to be in the low single digits.
While many in our sector had stronger growth in Q3 than expected some of those same companies then saw sequential deceleration of growth in Q4.
In contrast we continue to see sequential improvement on organic growth rate.
And we believe the implementation and execution of our strategic investment planning contributed to this acceleration.
As we look to 2015 we expect the full year organic growth rate to again improve over the full year 2014.
And to be clear that assumes no benefit from any underlying market improvement.
If the market improves as some are suggesting then we should do even better than that.
2015 is an important year of execution once again for us.
We expect our investments in emerging markets to continue to shift the mix of the portfolio of faster growing geographies.
The key to this initiative is improved productivity from the teams that we've built and additional product registrations in these markets.
In 2015 we also anticipate we'll begin to see some returns from our R&amp;D investments.
Over the past couple of years we've significantly increased the level of R&amp;D as we pursued expanded indications of current product platforms and introductions of new technologies.
We remain in investment mode.
The long-term objective is to drive above market revenue growth with a lower risk profile on a sustainable basis.
There obviously remains significant uncertainty in the market including unsettled issues in Washington.
FX headwinds at this magnitude frankly are as difficult and come up as quick as we've seen in years.
The market acceptance reimbursement decisions competitive response around drug-coated balloons in the U.S.
could have meaningful impact on our results.
And we have no way of knowing whether Gore royalty will increase decrease or be consistent compared to 2014 levels.
However amidst these uncertainties we remain focused on the execution of our strategic plan and the things we can control.
We believe our investments will improve the organic engine of the company in both revenue and profitability.
And as we said we measure success over the long term.
If 2015 brings some tailwinds to the market as some suggest we would look for opportunities to invest any short-term out-performance back into the business for longer-term benefit.
Chris will give you more details when he lays out our financial guidance.
We continue to believe that the effective execution of our strategic investment plan will allow us to continue to increase shareholder value over the long term and on a sustainable basis.
With that as an introduction let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our fourth quarter product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start as usual I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's start with Vascular.
Total net sales in this category for the quarter were $244.6 million an increase of 19% on an as-reported basis and 22% on a constant currency basis when compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the impact of the EP divestiture global Vascular sales were up 9% with the United States business up 14% for the quarter and international up 3%.
Sales in our Vascular graft category were down 6% in Q4.
Excluding the Gore royalty our Endovascular business grew 11% in the fourth quarter.
Within Endovascular our biopsy line was up 1%.
Our peripheral PTA products were up 49% this quarter driven by the early FDA approval of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon in the United States on October 10.
We're extremely pleased with how our Vascular sales development and operations team executed the early launch of this first-of-a-kind product in the United States.
As you know we were shipping product to customers on the day of approval with the first cases being performed the following day.
The early market acceptance has been impressive and we look forward to expanded adoption of this technology longer term as the market continues to develop.
Our Stent business was down 10% in Q4 which is within the range of recent experience.
As we've said pricing headwinds continue to drive down ASPs in this category.
And to complete the category sales in our vena cava filter line were flat in the fourth quarter.
Now let's move to Urology.
Total net sales were $217.8 million which is up 8% versus the Q4 of last year on an as-reported basis and 9% on a constant currency basis.
About 600 points of this global growth was related to the Rochester acquisition which anniversary-ed in the quarter.
The United States business was up 6% while internationally we grew 14%.
The Targeted Temperature Management products saw strong double-digit growth this quarter and we remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects of this technology platform.
Our vesic [ph] drainage business was up 7% in Q4 with about 400 points of that growth coming from the acquired Rochester Medical products.
I.C.
Foleys were down 2% globally with the United States down 4%.
These results in vesic [ph] drainage are fairly consistent with recent quarters.
While some surveys and reports have suggested improvement in United States hospital volumes we haven't seen any underlying improvement reflected here so far.
Our continence business grew 24% over the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of the acquired products our legacy continence products were down 6% for the quarter within the range of recent experience.
Sales in urological specialties were up 11% with emerging markets growing close to 40% organically in this category.
Our brachytherapy products were down 3% globally for the quarter.
And finally sales from our StatLock catheter stabilization line decreased 3% in the fourth quarter.
Now let's turn to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $237.5 million an increase of 8% over the fourth quarter last year on an as reported basis and 9% on a constant currency basis.
Net sales in the United States were up 7% while outside the United States sales were up 15%.
Our port line was up 5% versus the fourth quarter of last year with significant growth coming from emerging markets.
PICC revenue growth was 11% in Q4 but strong performance again in the United States and internationally.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line was up 8% this quarter.
And our dialysis catheter business was up 11% in the fourth quarter.
And we'll finish with Surgical Specialties.
Net sales in this category were $145.0 million in the fourth quarter up 3% on an as-reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis.
United States sales increased 4% while international sales were up 6%.
As you know we anniversary-ed the 2013 acquisition of Medafor on the first day of the fourth quarter.
Our biosurgical product portfolio grew double digits organically in the quarter and we're excited about the long-term potential here.
Sales from our biosurgical products already exceed the combined sales of our fixation products and our natural tissue products.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 5% overall in the fourth quarter.
Our total synthetic hernia products were up double digits again this quarter while our natural tissue products declined 15%.
Closing out the surgical category our fixation business was down 3% in the fourth quarter and our performance irrigation business was down 14% versus an above average quarter 1 year ago.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John.
Good evening everyone.
2014 was a pretty busy year at Bard.
We launched over 40 new products and our pipeline of launches in 2015 is also robust.
Starting with drug-coated balloons.
We're making good progress on additional sizes and indications worldwide.
We're in the follow-up phase of our Levant 2 Japan study and we expect to submit late this year for Japan approval.
Enrollment continues in our Below the Knee IDE and in-stent restenosis studies and we are making good progress in our AV access IDE study with enrollment anticipated to start mid-2015.
We're also expanding the clinical science of DCBs through our robust real world clinical experience.
For example at LINC this week Dr.
Markus Stein presented a first look at interim 1 year results from the Lutonix global SFA and popliteal registry of almost 700 patients.
Lesion lengths were over 100 millimeters and treated lengths were almost 200 millimeters while roughly 30% of lesions were located in the popliteal artery.
Primary patency was 81.7% and 88.5% of patients were free from a re-intervention at 1 year.
Though randomized study designs are quite different making comparison of results very difficult across different studies.
Registries provide a more balanced comparison across technologies and we believe these results compare well to any of the competitive DCBs.
Also in Vascular we launched the LifeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent in Europe in Q4 and enrollment is going well in the IDE study to support an iliac artery disease indication in the U.S.
Finally in Vascular we're responding to some FDA questions and anticipate U.S.
launch in Q1 of the first in a series of new Tru-Flo PTA Catheters for use in valvuloplasty procedures.
Tru-Flo has a unique flow-through design to allow blood to pass through a large channel in the center of the balloon promoting prolonged inflation while potentially reducing the need for rapid pacing or other hemodynamic maneuvers used to reduce cardiac output during the time the balloon has expanded.
Next moving to Urology.
We've just begun the rollout of our new skyline sub 2 French stone basket family.
This new product in our endourology line provides the urologists with one of the smallest baskets in the industry yet provides high strength and maneuverability along with a highly visible atraumatic tip to aid in safe and accurate use.
In our Targeted Temperature Management portfolio we've just launched our new PAD systems for use with neonates and pediatric patients in the U.S.
And we're rolling out a new software update to support enhanced functionality and additional languages.
Moving to Oncology.
We're anticipating U.S.
regulatory clearance and launch about midyear of our freehand stereotactic system for Vascular Access named Pinpoint GT.
The technology will initially be offered on a new Site-Rite 8 system in a planned simultaneous launch.
Pinpoint GT will also be backwards compatible to Site-Rite 6.
In PICCs we're now tracking towards submission around midyear of our first family of thromboresistant devices.
We plan to broaden the offering to our full line of PICCs over the back half of 2015 and into 2016.
Similarly we anticipate submitting our first antimicrobial PICC in the second half of 2015 and launching upon regulatory clearance.
This first product will be followed by a series of launches to support coated PICCs in both our PowerPICC and PowerPICC SOLO configurations.
Turning to midlines.
We're making good progress in our next-generation POWERGLIDE family and currently anticipate our U.S.
regulatory submission in Q4 with a first half 2016 launch.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
We informed you on the last call that we just received U.S.
regulatory clearance of the first antibiotic-coated biologic mesh XenMatrix AB and I'm pleased to tell you that product was launched in December.
XenMatrix AB utilizes our proprietary coding which is intended to preserve the integrity of the biologic graft in abdominal wall reconstruction procedures and has demonstrated broad spectrum safety and efficacy against several typically-encountered bacteria.
Moving to our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel sealant seeking expanded use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
We continue to be optimistic about approval and launch in the first half of this year.
Also we completed a follow-up early this year in our TRIDYNE vascular sealant pivotal IDE study.
The team is working toward PMA submission in the first half of the year and we anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we remain on track to launch in the first half of the year our new spring-loaded resorbable tack device named OPTIFIX.
We also anticipate launching another fixation platform later in the year.
As Tim said we have a very important year of execution ahead of us and we look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
As part of our effort for continuous improvement we initiated a survey of investors last year.
And one of the more common suggestions we received was to take a fresh look at the need to hold a formal analyst meeting every year.
We've been clear about our growth drivers and the opportunities we're pursuing and our investment strategy has not changed.
Because of that we have determined that a resource and time-intensive effort like a formal analyst meeting is just not justified this year.
We'll update you on our pipeline and growth drivers throughout the year if circumstances allow in the appropriate forum.
Thanks very much for your attention.
Now I will hand the discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let me start by covering the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We had acquisition-related items of $7.5 million pretax mostly related to Lutonix milestone accretion and a $10.1 million pretax charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
We also booked expense of $12.7 million related to the judges order in the women's health litigation that we work up 500 cases simultaneously.
And finally we had a credit of $3.5 million pretax related to the medical device excise tax paid in 2013 after reaching an agreement with the IRS.
These items are detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q4 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $547.7 million in Q4 and $547.4 million on an adjusted basis or 63.1% of sales up 230 basis points from the prior year with 170 basis points of that improvement related to the Gore royalty and about 120 basis points coming from cost improvements.
We also had about 50 basis points of benefit when compared to the higher integration costs and investments in Q4 of 2013.
Some headwinds to GPs in Q4 were new amortization of about 50 basis points foreign exchange at about 10 basis points and mix of about 20 basis points.
Pricing pressure was about 100 basis points of headwind on the revenue line and about 30 basis points in GP in Q4.
We continue to expect pricing pressure going forward between 100 and 150 basis points on the revenue line.
For the full year 2014 that brings adjusted gross profit as a percentage of sales to 62.1% up 110 basis points from 2013 much better than our original guidance of 30 to 60 basis points of improvement.
While the Gore royalty did exceed our expectations the effect on GP was only 10 to 20 basis points higher than our projections from 1 year ago.
The overachievement was primarily driven by more favorable mix than originally expected.
SG&amp;A expenses were $257.5 million for the quarter or 29.7% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was $261 million even or 30.1% of sales down 170 basis points from the prior year period driven by the Gore royalty being in the denominator as well as improving leverage from our emerging markets investments and the integration of our 2013 acquisitions.
For the full year 2014 adjusted SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 29.6% a decrease of 40 basis points from the prior year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $79.2 million for the fourth quarter or 9.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was $71.5 million or 8.2% of sales a decrease of 70 basis points from the prior year period mostly driven by the Gore royalty now in the denominator.
For the full year 2014 on an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense was 8% of sales compared to 8.5% in 2013.
However without the Gore royalty and the revenue line R&amp;D expense would've been 8.4% of sales in 2014.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the fourth quarter and $44.8 million for the full year.
Other income and expense was $25.1 million of expense for the fourth quarter.
On an adjusted basis it was $2.2 million of expense for the quarter and $4.7 million of income for the full year.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 23.2%.
On an adjusted basis it was 21.1% taking us to 24.3% for the full year.
The quarter was lower than the full year average due to the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in December.
At the beginning of the year we had told you to expect about 100 basis points of improvement in the effective tax rate in 2014 and we came in at 90 basis points of improvement despite significantly stronger U.S.
income than we had anticipated.
That all adds up to cash EPS of $2.29 for Q4 excluding items affecting comparability which brings us in at $8.40 for the full year on the same basis.
That's a full $0.10 above the high end of our original guidance for the year and above our updated guidance as well indicative of the strong performance we saw in 2014.
We purchased about 785 000 shares of the company's stock during the fourth quarter taking the total buybacks in 2014 to approximately 4.5 million shares at an average price of $146.67.
Between buybacks and dividends we returned approximately $725 million to shareholders over the course of 2014.
The balance sheet as of December 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.01 billion versus $1.04 billion at September 30.
For the full year AR days were down 7.3 days and inventory days were up 0.2 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $36.6 million for the quarter and $126.6 million for the year.
On the liability side total debt was $1.5 billion as of December 31 versus $1.4 billion at September 30.
Debt to total capital at the end of the fourth quarter was about 45% and total shareholder investment was $1.8 billion at December 31.
So with a strong 2014 now in the books let's turn to financial guidance for 2015 excluding the impact of items that affect comparability.
For revenue we project 2015 constant currency organic revenue growth between 4% and 5%.
Given the potential variability of the Gore royalty our overall constant currency revenue guidance is between 3% and 5%.
As Tim said this assumes no fundamental improvement in the market growth rates from where they have been the last couple of years which we would characterize as low single digits.
If the markets improve as some suggest then we would expect to do better.
But with all of the uncertainties surrounding us we think it's too early to count on any improvement in the underlying markets.
Obviously foreign exchange rates are a significant headwind for everyone as we head into 2015 and we are certainly not immune to that.
We estimate that at current rates we're looking at a revenue headwind related to currency of about 3%.
As far as constant currency revenue growth in our 4 disease state categories in 2015 we expect Vascular revenue growth to be between 3% and 7%; Urology to be between 1% and 4%; Oncology to grow between 3% and 6%; and our Surgical Specialties business to grow between 3% and 6% as well.
We expect our overall gross margin percent to decline in 2015 by between 30 and 70 basis points compared to 2014.
That reflects about 50 basis points of pressure from FX and about 30 basis points of incremental amortization from the U.S.
approval of Lutonix in October of 2014.
Pricing pressure continues to be a significant issue for us.
And we estimate the impact on 2015 to be between 40 and 60 basis points of headwind to GP.
Fortunately our cost improvement programs are projected to once again contribute about 50 basis points of benefits to GP and we expect mix to be favorable between 20 to 40 basis points.
So organic constant currency gross margins are expected to improve in 2015 as we projected when we first introduced our strategic investment plan 2 years ago.
And again as we said we expect to see improving operating leverage in 2015.
While we continue to increase investment in emerging markets we expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales to decline between 50 and 100 basis points in 2015.
And we expect R&amp;D as a percentage of sales to be in the mid-7% range both excluding items that affect comparability.
We expect interest expense in 2015 to be between $45 million and $47 million.
We expect the effective tax rate to improve again this time between 0 and 50 basis points for the full year and this does assume the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit for 2015.
All of that adds up to adjusted cash EPS for 2015 excluding items that affect comparability between $8.95 and $9.05 per share.
That includes a negative currency impact of about $0.25 based on today's rates.
So without this very atypical currency situation we would have been forecasting at or above our target of 10% EPS growth.
While we evaluated alternatives that could increase earnings for 2015 given the expected FX magnitude and the fact that this is certainly not a Bard-specific issue we don't think it would be wise for short-term benefit to scale back investments and possibly interrupt the momentum in organic growth that we achieved during 2014.
In the end we believe maintaining our flexibility and continuing to focus on the longer-term organic growth profile of the company builds better value for our shareholders.
In Q1 we expect constant currency sales growth between 4% and 5% and adjusted cash EPS between $2.04 and $2.08.
As for capital expenditures we expect 2015 to be similar to 2014 between $120 million and $140 million.
And we expect operating cash flow to be in the $700 million range again in 2015.
I'd like to conclude my comments by reminding you that the objective of our strategy is to position Bard from a portfolio standpoint to deliver above market revenue growth for years to come.
The key measure of success for this transition plan will be the improvement in the organic engine.
This plan was never about maximizing EPS in a given year but the strength in the business for the long-term in a disciplined and thoughtful way.
We believe we are doing that.
While we expect further improvement in our operating margins in 2015 we intend to remain in investment mode with the desired outcome of positioning the company for long-term success to enhance shareholder value.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
While we're pleased with our performance in 2014 we have a lot of work in front of us to position the company where we want it to be.
As many of you have heard me repeat one of my favorite quotes great strategy is more about great execution than it is about great thinking.
2015 is a very important year of execution for us.
We're not taking anything for granted.
I'm sure there will be bumps along the way as there always is.
We're focused on the long-term health of the business with the intention of increasing shareholder value.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I would just start off Tim with asking a little bit.
You laid out nicely the expectations for 2015.
But I guess I'm thinking past 2015 and really trying to understand what the ultimate game plan is here.
Can you talk about as you look out what you think the appropriate levels of organic growth and perhaps EPS growth would be for the company? Yes Larry.
Obviously the market's volatile and especially as you grow into more and varied geographies the underlying market growth rates get even more complex.
We as we stated don't anticipate any change in the external environment for this year.
If it happens we'll do better than that.
We stated a couple of years ago that our goal was to be 200 to 300 basis points above what the market growth rate was and the competitive aspect of that within the sector.
That would still be our goal.
We're big believers that sustainable revenue growth drives shareholder value and that's what we're about.
So we remain fixated on that as a strategic objective.
We do think that there's a lot of leverage for us with the investments we've made in some of the emerging markets.
Just to put it in perspective that represents almost 1/3 of our total sales headcount but as we mentioned 9% of revenue.
So we think there's a lot of room to grow into that.
And those markets are growing clearly above what we called out as the market average in total.
So to the extent we can accelerate growth in those segments that are growing faster we should continue the momentum that we demonstrated last year.
Yes.
The only thing I'd add Larry as it relates to EPS growth is we're absolutely focused on double-digit EPS growth 10% EPS growth.
And certainly we believe the model will allow us to deliver that.
And without this recent move in the dollar we would have delivered 10% to 11% EPS growth in 2015.
So the growth organically on the top line we believe over time will allow us to drive 10% EPS growth.
Again this unprecedented move which cost us $0.25 now as we turn into '15 has just prevented that from happening this year.
But the plan the strategy and the leveraging on the investments over time should allow us to achieve that objective.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just again on the uses of cash you guys obviously generate a significant amount of free cash flow.
No significant M&amp;A done in 2014.
You obviously bought back a bunch of stock associated with the Gore bolus [ph] payment.
But can you talk about 2015 perhaps what your expectations may be for M&amp;A as well as would you be open to deploying cash for share repurchase? Sure.
I'll cover that kind of at a high level and Chris can chime in with detail.
Clearly our use of cash has not changed for well 10 years or longer.
It's strategic first.
We want to continue to invest in businesses technologies and platforms to grow the company.
And we'll continue to do that prioritize it that way.
Second would be share repurchases.
And third would be dividends in that order and there's no change to that.
Yes.
So again Larry I think obviously it's very much transaction dependent.
And as Tim says we're looking for the right acquisitions to make for the company every day.
I think the free cash flow does allow us to do both in the ordinary course continue to make acquisitions of a certain size as well as continuing to consistently return cash to shareholders.
We'll generate free cash flow in the $500 million to $600 million range that we can deploy in 2015.
First priority is strategic.
But even in conjunction with that I think we'll continue to have flexibility to do a bit of both.
Again deal dependent.
But in the ordinary course I would expect a balanced use of cash.
And our next question comes from the line of Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple on emerging markets for me.
Tim you mentioned 1/3 of sales headcount in emerging markets versus 9% of revenue.
How long will it take for that ratio to normalize? And kind of can you walk us through the levers that's associated with that? That's question 1.
Question 2 is where you are with the product registrations in emerging markets now versus where you want to be? Sure.
Well in terms of the comparison of kind of productivity per sales rep across geographies that's difficult to do for a couple of different reasons.
Number one by design in the emerging markets we didn't give every country manager the 14 000 SKU playbook and tell them to go sell everything.
So we're being very strategic relative to how we target within those geographies.
And I'm not sure that's a good way to look at the analysis frankly.
But we're pleased with the productivity that's being made there.
We do think there's a lot of room to grow into that investment.
That was really the plan.
And we're pleased with the execution to date.
And the second part of the question? Registrations.
Oh yes the registration pipeline.
I kind of view that as almost like a second R&amp;D funnel.
And it's something we measure and metric every month frankly from the divisions.
So there are literally hundreds of registrations sitting as we speak at various ministries of health around the world.
There's even more than that sitting within our geographic business centers waiting to be filed being prepared to be filed with the ministers of health.
And even beyond that in the sourcing divisions there's more than that hundreds that are being prepared to submit to our business centers that in turn gets submitted to the ministers of health around the world.
So we're pleased with the pipeline and the flow that we've got in the regulatory side of things at the moment in those markets.
Next we'll go to the line of Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of items first just to clean up on the guidance.
So Chris in the 2015 guidance what are you assuming for share repurchases? We're assuming sort of an ordinary course number Mike.
We'd certainly look to offset dilution from benefit plans as well as a little bit of an incremental reduction in the share count.
We don't want to commit to a specific number because again the range of opportunities we might face on the M&amp;A front could force us into a little bit of a different place.
But we would expect to continue to be able to move the share count lower to a certain degree.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The 4% to 5% organic growth guidance kind of x the Gore noise feels like it should be a little bit better than that this quarter or think about the last few quarters the kind of underlying business pre-Lutonix has been moving from what was 3% to moving closer to 4% you have your first quarter of Lutonix out there and Lutonix just adds over 200 basis points to the growth this quarter.
So it feels like you're being a little bit conservative both on the base business as well as Lutonix.
Like in the Oncology guidance Oncology was up 7% constant currency in 2014 and you're guiding with 3% to 6%.
So could you just spend a minute on the 4% to 5% and why that doesn't -- it feels conservative.
Why is that not conservative? Yes Mike.
We'll tag team this.
I think first of all -- I don't know if you said Urology or Oncology? Research Division</strong> No Oncology.
Oncology was up 7% in '14.
You're guiding to 3% to 6%.
Yes.
I think with respect to ports for example we have a number of large contracts and there's certainly some timing associated with large multiyear contracts that could from a pricing standpoint provide a headwind in certain categories.
I think bigger picture certainly we expect a very competitive dynamic with respect to DCBs over the course of 2015.
We'll see how that plays out.
We certainly have ambitions to do very well but we also want to make sure that we're maintaining the right level of caution.
I think Europe where we had a very strong 2014 we're somewhat cautious just given some of the macro challenges and headwinds that the continent is facing as well.
And as Tim said there's a lot of uncertainty surrounding us and the sector overall including as it relates to the health care in the U.S.
and as the Affordable Care Act continues to remain under some uncertainty longer term.
So or as we said we're certainly going to try to do better and if we get some tailwind we can.
But we believe 4% to 5% as we exited '14 is absolutely the right place for us to be.
Research Division</strong> And are there any other headwinds that you didn't mention that we should know about? Nothing major.
Next we'll go to the line of Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One first for Chris.
In the 4% to 5% can you just give us a sense as to the year-over-year change that goes into that 4% to 5% from just the Gore royalty and Lutonix revenues? Yes I think with -- we tried to capture the range of scenarios we see with respect to Gore in the constant currency number of 3% to 5%.
So there are some scenarios there Bob.
They don't move the needle much on the high end than they do tick it down a bit on the low end.
So again we believe we're capturing what is likely within the 3% to 5% as it relates to Gore.
And we're certainly not going to give specific expectation around Lutonix as we look at '15.
We're going to continue to work like heck to help develop the market and penetrate the market.
But I assume you can respect from a competitive standpoint we're not going to be more specific than that at this point.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I think I gathered from Tim's comments that maybe in the fourth quarter you did high teens revenue for Lutonix? Yes I think you guys will be able to do the math to get to a number that's in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for John on the launch a couple of things.
I'd love just to kind of get your views on what you're seeing as you pioneer this new therapy.
So a couple of quick things.
One what's the progress on the add-on payment? When do you expect that? Do you have any evolved views on market size and what will happen to the stent market as a result of drug-coated balloons and what you're seeing in the early launch? Just would love to get some thoughts now that you're in the marketplace.
Let me just give some general perspectives on the launch itself.
I think first of all our team did an excellent job preparing for this launch literally over the last year in great detail.
And I'd evidence that by the comments that we made where we had approval on a Friday we were shipping that Friday and our first case was done on Saturday.
And I think that the knowledge base of physicians in the United States in anticipation of the technology was significant.
And I think that our team has done an excellent job helping to continue educate physicians since the October launch.
We have 2 thresholds for payment reimbursement changes potentially in the second quarter and fourth quarter one for inpatient and one for outpatient.
All of our submissions are in the CMS at this point in time.
And we'll see what develops there.
We have no reason to believe that they're not looking at this very favorably at this point in time.
In terms of market size the -- we had always said that the European market was about $80 million.
That's not changed substantially.
And we could all take a -- have a pool on what the United States will end up at at the end of 2015.
We're certainly working hard to make it as large as we possibly can.
But I think that will be a wildcard and we'll see how the whole market develops now that a competitor is approved as well.
Research Division</strong> And then on stents are those being affected just generally? In the early reviews that we've done we have not seen that at this point in time although I would imagine that downstream the total stent market may be affected slightly.
But we have not seen anything at this point in time.
But I think the good news is that our market basket so to speak of products offered into the vascular surgeons interventional cardiologists obviously went up substantially.
So our presence went up substantially and we staffed it accordingly.
And next we'll go to the line of David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First for Chris.
Chris there's a pathway within guidance at least in our view to get sort of the mid-25s in terms of operating margin noting [ph] your specific targets.
But if I think about just putting that in context over the last several years that sort of puts you halfway between sort of your peak margins before the reinvestment and then the trough margins around 22 obviously during the reinvestment.
You're sort of halfway through the trough and the peak.
Can you kind of give us a sense of the amount of time it will take to get back to that peak? Yes.
I think what we've essentially committed to with the guidance today is 50 to 100 basis points of operating margin improvement in 2015.
And that's with this unfortunate currency headwind that's nicking GPs by 50 basis points.
And so when you think about the dilution associated with the portfolio moves we made in 2015 which cost us about 200 basis points I think we're well on our way to getting back to those mid-27% level.
And the objective as we look at the model is to drive 50 to 100 basis points of operating margin improvement annually.
So we're making a nice downpayment on returning to those levels in '15.
That will be the objective again in '16 and the objective for several years.
So we feel good about the trajectory.
Again the portfolio moves that just lowered the jumping off point we believe were absolutely the right things to do for the company.
And again if you adjust for those we'd actually be -- and without the currency headwind we'd be right in spitting distance of those margins in '15.
So we feel good about that.
A lot of work to get those improvements year after year.
But that's the commitment.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And maybe just a quick detail question on the product side for John.
John there's a lot of strength in PICCs this quarter.
We've seen actually several quarters this year where PICC strength was significant.
This particular quarter ultrasound was a little weak.
Was there anything specific there that we should be thinking about as we head into 2015? I wouldn't say ultrasound was weak this quarter.
We had a pretty good solid quarter in ultrasound.
And that varies from time to time based on product launches and things like that.
But I would say that the reality is we had a very strong quarter across the board.
Every product line showed significant strength on Oncology around the world.
And in the United States we're delighted with the performance we had in Oncology in the quarter.
Yes.
And we've got a pretty good pipeline going into 2015 with our Site-Rite 8 [ph] planned for launch around mid-year as another addition into that pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just stick one more in? Actually maybe for Tim or for John.
I guess what's really interesting is in the period where Bard was decelerating there was this commentary that utilization was one of the factors.
And what's really fascinating is on the acceleration your underlying growth this quarter was 4.5% puts you well above peers' underlying growth rate.
And you're not doing it with contribution from Foley's and some of those key utilization-sensitive markets.
So it looks like frankly it's just good old-fashioned Bard and it's not market driven.
So market obviously is upside.
So Tim as you sort of think about the underlying business performance where do you think the 2 or 3 areas that you feel most confident in the last 2 years have driven that underlying performance given it doesn't appear to come from market at all? Yes.
Well as we said if you want to grow faster you've got to invest in faster-growing segments and that's frankly what we've been doing.
Clearly the underlying market growth rates in the emerging markets are faster than the total average probably closer to a double-digit kind of growth rate underlying market growth rates.
The acquisitions that we've made over the last several years were all thought of as platforms here for us to invest in because those were in faster-growing segments.
And then the R&amp;D investments that we've made across the board have also been in faster-growing segments.
So as we execute and those things start to pay off and come to fruition the plan called for the growth rates to be higher and that's what you're seeing.
So it's really not any more complex than that frankly.
We have a question from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed this but did you give a growth rate for Lutonix outside the United States? And are you still seeing good growth on the heels of all the data from a market perspective? Yes we did we saw excellent growth outside of the United States.
Research Division</strong> Any way to quantify? Other than excellent? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we were delighted where we were at the end of the quarter both in the United States and outside of the United States.
We continue to take share.
Right.
I think that was the point.
We continue to take share every quarter x U.S.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess bigger picture I guess Tim.
I guess how are you thinking just about M&amp;A in terms of the size of a company? Or would you be willing to step out and do something a little bit larger? Yes.
Nothing has changed in terms of our perspective on that.
As we've said we've never shied away from doing a big deal.
But we haven't seen one that's been so compelling that hits all the filters that we have set forth for all of our acquisitions.
Frankly size isn't something we even start with.
That probably comes into play in the third or fourth round of questions.
So we start strategically.
We look at it as a platform and is the growth sustainable and is it a market leadership or does it help the market leadership positions that we have in the current portfolio.
And we answer all of those first.
So would we be willing to do it? Sure.
But it would have to be so compelling that we were convinced that it was the right thing to do for the long-term growth of the company.
And frankly we don't even think about size when we look at deals.
Research Division</strong> And then for Chris just in terms of the gross margin guidance that you provided mix favorable by 20 to 40 basis points.
I would have thought that would have been maybe a little bit better just with Lutonix coming in this year and also strong growth across the BioSurgery business which I thought was a little bit higher as well.
Can you maybe just speak to us what are the I guess puts and takes from a mix perspective? Yes.
I think there are other areas that are going to be -- continue to be important contributors but are not -- are lower margin.
And I think we're working on improving the margins from the Rochester portfolio.
That's going to take some time.
We're not there yet.
That's still another year to 2 out.
Those products are growing nicely.
And so that's actually something that's hurting us in this intervening period.
And again hopefully as we get out 12 or 24 months from now that will be a contributor.
But I think 20 to 40 is a very nice number.
And if that -- as we constructed the portfolio we think it's something that's sustainable.
We actually feel pretty good about that.
Certainly we'd like to see the number higher.
But as we look at 2015 and the puts and takes that's how we see it.
Research Division</strong> And just to go back to Lutonix that number that you quoted or the contribution was there any stacking or are you on a consignment basis? We're -- I mean there are certainly some initial stocking orders.
We've also though seen very significant levels of reorder as well which we're tracking closely.
So it's impossible to say perfectly.
But there's a healthy portion of customers that have reordered more than once already.
And that's why -- listen it's going to take a little bit of time for this to settle out.
But to John's point we feel great about the launch and certainly great about the initial demand.
Next we'll go to the line of David Roman Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just start with the emerging markets which clearly has been a very successful relatively fast return for you guys.
Could you maybe just talk through kind of where you are in the -- just in the evolution of that strategy and ultimately where you can foresee that business going in terms of mix in the overall company? Sure.
David the -- as Tim said earlier we are -- we've invested ahead of the growth potential within those markets.
We're delighted with how well we've done in China since we embarked down this journey.
We think we have an awful lot of runway yet ahead of us in China in many different product lines especially new products that we have not yet launched in that specific geography.
Emerging markets in -- within Europe we're delighted with our uptick there across both Europe and Russia.
And I'd say that we are anticipating the investments that we've made in Latin America yet to generate the results that we're expecting.
So I think that '15 and '16 will be a particularly important year for us in the Latin American marketplace.
We like the traction that we're getting around the world in the other markets that we've invested in.
And I think that you'll continue to see this be a significant contributor to Bard's growth in the years to come.
We don't have an upward limit in terms of this.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in one of the prior questions you alluded to Lutonix having the potential to give you a better foothold with the interventional cardiologists and potentially the vascular surgeon.
To what extent over time can that become a potential leverage point? And do you have sufficient products in your bag really to use that call point potentially more efficiently? And how much of a focus is that? It's certainly an opportunity for us to use that call point more efficiency -- efficiently I think especially as we become a bigger part of those operating suites with DCB and the other products that can be utilized within this suite.
I'd say that if you look at it long term though that's only one aspect of our DCB strategy.
You see the other indications that John talked about.
I mean it gives us a runway of new platforms for the next 5 years or so that we think will be very significant and we'll have an opportunity to build large markets over the years.
Below the knee is an obvious example as are the other indications that John talked about.
So I'd say this is as much about being a larger part of the operating suites as well as being able to take this significant technology and move it to other indications.
Next we'll go to the line of David Turkaly JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tim just quickly just a follow-up I guess maybe to wrap up this M&amp;A lines.
Your competitor mentioned that they thought the market was getting a little more competitive or it's harder to find things.
Would you agree with that? Are you finding -- are you being presented with still interesting technologies? Or is the overall M&amp;A environment more competitive today? Yes.
We're finding things.
In fact I just recently internally looked at a kind of scattergram of technologies and companies we've looked at.
And it's as full as I've ever seen.
So we're pleased with that.
I think you worry a little bit down the road about the way venture capital money has shifted over the last several years within the sector.
We haven't bumped into any troughs in the market flow because of that yet but who knows down the road whether that happens.
So -- and the other part of that is we're more actively -- as these emerging markets and other geographies grow our expectation is there may be more opportunities in those sectors to look there.
So we put more resource into that as well.
So now we weren't pleased with our execution in 2014 but it wasn't because of a slowdown in the deal flow.
Research Division</strong> And would you say that it also was not because of evaluations or your evaluation sensitivity? I don't think so.
I mean there are some things that frankly like anything else in life when you go to buy something it's a negotiation.
You can look at somebody and say "You're crazy we're not paying that".
And that happens but that's not new.
That happened 5 years ago and 3 years ago and that's the way life is right? So I don't think we -- we certainly haven't changed our evaluation profile that we look at nor we do see any reason to do that.
So that doesn't concern me at all relative to deal flow either.
Next we'll go to Matthew Taylor Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask one about I guess your philosophy behind the Gore guidance because if we take your top line guidance you're obviously forecasting some kind of decline.
Is that just general uncertainty? Or is there something that you're expecting that will cause it to decline? No I think Matt it's just trying to be prudent about the range of scenarios that could happen.
Again we don't think there's a level of upside that again that moves the guidance which is why it's still at 5% rounded on the high end.
It certainly could continue at the current level or as we've always said it could decline.
It's absolutely out of our control.
And as we have said and we'll repeat again now we don't have any information that leads us to believe that it will decline.
But we wait and on a quarterly basis understand what sales were and what the royalties were.
So we're trying to be prudent and make commitments to you guys that we can deliver on within a range of scenarios.
And certainly as we think about potential upside we're giving you bottom line commitments that we're committed to delivering.
We'd certainly like the ability to reinvest any upside back into the business while still delivering bottom line commitments.
So we're trying to take in what we think are the likely scenarios and then make commitments that we're going to hit within those scenarios.
Research Division</strong> And this is a kind of a probability weighted forecast for you in terms of what could happen? Yes that's a good way to think about it.
Operator we are well past an hour now.
We're going to take 3 more and we apologize to the rest of the people in queue.
But obviously you can call us and we can catch up after.
But we'll take 3 more here on the call operator.
Joanne Wuensch BMO Capital.
I think a lot of us are focused on what are you going to buy next.
But can we shift the topic a little bit to what you might divest next? How do you...
Sure.
So yes let me deal with that.
So it's always easier to divest a business than it is to divest product lines.
With 14 000 plus SKUs at any point in time we've got a number -- a large number of SKUs that are actually declining that frankly if we had our druthers we'd get rid of sell whatever.
They are needed in the marketplace by patients and clinicians which is why we continue to manufacture those and provide those.
But they're also a time distraction to do that kind of thing.
So we'd rather have our management's efforts and workforce focus on growth as opposed to divesting singular product lines.
And there's really not a business as such that we have in total outside of what we did with electric physiology that would be nicely packaged for a divestiture.
So no current plans at the moment for anything there.
That's helpful.
And then the other thing which I've always liked about your catheter business is that it sort of becomes the precursor of volume trends.
And yet you're not really saying that you're seeing the pickup in volumes.
Do you have an idea why you're not experiencing it while others are sort of starting to talk about it already? Well when you look at the catheter business I think it's an interesting aspect of it.
One is that hospitals have tried to reduce catheterization because of their need to reduce urinary tract infections or hospital-acquired infections.
That's one aspect of it.
The other aspect is oftentimes on outpatient surgery a patient will not be catheterized also.
So you'll see the trend being very very close on inpatient surgeries but it won't capture demand from outpatient surgeries.
I think that's -- there's a couple of the aspects of Foley catheterization that are nuanced in this case.
I appreciate that clarification.
But do you have an idea why you're not starting to see that kind of pickup that others are talking about? I don't think we're seeing an inpatient surgery.
We don't see inpatient surgeries increasing.
Next we'll go to Richard Newitter Leerink.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi Misra in for Rich Newitter.
I have 2 on Lutonix.
One maybe regarding the other indications that you're exploring.
I was wondering if you were willing to put any aspirational timelines on some of those approvals? And then two I think last fall we were discussing on these calls the publication that you guys were searching to put the Lutonix data in.
An update on that would be appreciated.
Sure.
So let me just jump on the approvals side.
We've talked about starting the AV access study.
So enrollment that's going to be -- if we started mid this year which is the plan.
We expect that to enroll relatively quickly.
But with the timing of that that's probably sort of 2018 time frame for AV.
Now below the knee enrollment has been a little slower.
We had hoped for a sort of 2017 approval.
We think that's still possible probably later in the year just based on the way that enrollment is going right now.
And the in-stent restenosis indication there's another one that we -- I want to hold back a little bit on that.
We'd talked a little bit about a 2017 -- late 2017 kind of time frame in the past.
But we're trying to see where we can get information and more data that could give us other opportunities.
So I don't want to commit to anything at this point.
But certainly there aways out for U.S.
indications.
Now as far as the publication goes I can tell you no one is more frustrated at the timing than I am.
But this is clearly something that's not within our control.
As we understand it the author's investigators have the manuscript under review with the journal.
It's not within our control as much as I'd like it to be.
And we continue to believe that it's important to get it published.
So as soon as we know something and we have an opportunity to let you know we will.
The last question will come from Mike Matson Needham &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering with the Lutonix product obviously you had good sales.
But is reimbursement an issue at all? And with regard to the add-on payment I mean I think that's for inpatient.
So how many of these are being done inpatient versus outpatient? Is there any potential to get some type of pass-through or something for the outpatient setting that would increase reimbursement as well? So let me just jump in on reimbursement.
First off I think we're trying to track inpatient versus outpatient use.
We don't have great visibility to that frankly.
But we believe that this is primarily outpatient use which is typical for SFA popliteal kind of procedures.
So we think that's probably sort of in the 60% range or so.
On reimbursement we think it is an issue.
There are certainly certain value-conscious buyers that would be holding off until they hear more about reimbursement.
Obviously we're getting pickup in spite of that at this stage.
But there are as John mentioned earlier 2 paths for reimbursement.
There's the outpatient reimbursement piece which CMS there's really no official time line.
They can work within whatever they want.
We think an April time frame is reasonable.
Again CMS is not obligated to work within that time frame.
But typically sort of a couple of cycles of review is common.
And we're in that time period from when we submitted our documentation to CMS last fall.
Now as far as the inpatient piece goes I just saw today actually on the CMS website the agenda for a meeting next week a town hall meeting where drug-coated balloons will be reviewed.
And I think that's the last step is my understanding at least the last public step in the review process for the inpatient piece.
But remember inpatient only receives the approval or changes one time a year which is typically the October time frame.
So John alluded to a Q4 inpatient time period which is what we think would be sort of the reasonable customary time frame.
But again CMS is not obligated to work within any of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just in your surgical business can give us an update on the natural tissue products? It seems like the market sort of had moved away from those and I guess where your antibiotic coated product would fit in.
Sure.
I think that entire market is under some significant pressure I mean primarily based around price.
The ASPs of some of those grafts are very very substantial.
And I think that hospitals and clinicians are being very prudent about the use of natural tissue products and really trying to focus those only when they're absolutely necessary.
The product that we recently launched Xen AB is the first of its kind.
It's the first product or graft that is antibiotic coated.
We think that has significant opportunity to be utilized in those indications where patients may be compromised.
We -- the excitement in the marketplace is substantial.
Our launch was significant.
And we're delighted as well as where we are in that initial launch in late December.
Okay.
Moderator thank you very much for all of your assistance.
Let me also thank everybody for joining us today.
And I'd like to also take this opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a very solid year of execution.
Looking forward to an even better one this year.
And I also thank them for their dedication and commitment.
And we'll talk to you after the first quarter.