Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.R.
Bard Inc.
First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard’s website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainty.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information and the information under the caption “Risk Factors” each in Bard’s 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance for the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings release on the company's website at www.cr.com - I’m sorry crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of April 23 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information.
Unless otherwise noted all comparisons are to the prior year periods.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
I’d like to welcome everybody to Bard's first quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
We’d expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and we're going to try to keep the total call to about an hour or less.
The discussion today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the first quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review first quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
Afterwards Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will cover the first quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for Q2.
And finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
First quarter 2015 net sales totaled $819.7 million.
That's up 3% over Q1 last year on as-reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus last year was unfavorable by about 260 basis points.
The quarterly royalty payment from Gore was $38.4 million which represented slower growth than our product portfolio.
So our organic revenue growth this quarter was about 5.3% which was better than our guidance.
Net income for the first quarter was $139.8 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.82.
That's down 6% and 2% respectively excluding certain items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later.
First quarter 2015 net income was $142.4 million up 6% and diluted adjusted earnings per share which exclude amortization were $2.10 that's up 10%.This was also above our expectations despite the additional headwind from currency and represents a good start to what's an important year of execution for us.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the first quarter of last year Q1 net sales in the U.S.
grew 4% compared to a year-ago.
On a constant currency basis in Europe we were up 1% Japan was up 5% and our other international businesses were up 18%.
We saw strong sales growth across all of our emerging market geographies in the first quarter as our investments over the last couple of years have strengthened our position in these faster growing markets.
As a percentage of total sales in the first quarter emerging markets represented between 8% and 9% of sales compared to just 7% a year-ago.
And while it's still a small percentage of the portfolio in some of our major product lines the actual dollar growth we saw in emerging markets exceeded the dollar growth for the same products in the U.S.
this quarter.
As you know emerging markets is just one of the opportunities we've highlighted as a key long-term revenue growth driver for us.
In fact you'll hear as John Weiland takes you through the sales results that each of the growth drivers we've highlighted as part of our strategic investment plan performed well quarter.
We remain focused on the execution of that plan and providing the expected returns of those investments in 2015 and beyond.
Chris will provide the detailed update to our guidance a bit later in the call but I’m pleased to tell you that our strong start to the year and our confidence in our ability to execute on the things we can control we believe we can manage the challenging foreign exchange environment so far and maintain our original financial guidance for 2015.
So with that summary let me now turn you over to John Weiland for review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with vascular.
Total net sales were $231.9 million up 6% over last year on a reported basis and up 10% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
vascular sales were up 8% in Q1 and international sales were up 11%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 4% this quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business was up 10% in the first quarter and it was up 12% excluding the Gore royalty.
Our biopsy products had a strong quarter up 9% driven by good growth internationally especially in emerging markets.
Our peripheral PTA line increased 32% in the first quarter with sales of our Lutonix DCB exceeding our expectations.
We saw a good acceleration in the daily usage of the device after some large initial stocking orders in the fourth quarter.
In Q1 we worked with Boston Scientific to train their reps in the product and in Q2 received our first order from them.
As you probably saw hospital outpatient procedures are now eligible for reimbursement through CMS as of the beginning of the second quarter an important milestone for the category.
Our Vena Cava Filter line grew 6% in Q1.
Our stent business declined 3% in Q1 compared to the prior-year and we continue to expect significant price pressure in this category.
Now let's move to urology.
Total net sales were $205.6 million up 2% versus the first quarter of last year on a reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
The United States business was up 4% and internationally we grew 6%.
We saw double-digit growth in our targeted temperature management products again this quarter and we remain encouraged by the long-term opportunity here.
Our basic drainage business was up 4% in Q1 and up 2% in the United States.
Within that category our I.C.
Foley business was up 1% globally and down 2% in the United States.
Our continence business was up 7% in Q1 driven by double-digit growth in our DigniCare and male external catheter sales.
Our women's health product lines continued to decline but now make up less than 20% of the continence category and less than 1.5% of Bard's total sales.
Sales in urological specialties were down 1% in the first quarter with our Brachytherapy business down 4%.
And finally stand-alone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 5% in Q1.
Next is oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $224.6 million an increase of 3% over Q1 last year on a reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 1% and international sales were up 15%.
Our port business was down 3% over Q1 of last year.
We forecasted significant United States pricing pressure here related to GPO contracts signed in 2014 which drove the decline as units were essentially flat with prior year.
Our PICC revenues were up 9% globally with good growth in the United States and even better growth internationally.
And to close out the category our vascular access ultrasound product line grew 12% this quarter and our dialysis catheter product line was up 8%.
So then let's finish with surgical specialties.
Total net sales in this category were $135.9 million up 1% on a reported basis and up 3% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
sales were up 5% and international sales were down 4% in the quarter.
Most of that international decline was driven by our performance irrigation business which was down 34% globally due to the discontinuation of certain products in this category which now represents less than 1% of total Bard sales.
Our soft tissue business - soft tissue repair business grew 5% this quarter.
Within soft tissue our synthetic hernia business grew 8% in Q1.
In biologics we are very pleased with the first full quarter of sales from our XenMatrix AB product which is a porcine graft with an antibiotic coating.
Thanks to the contribution from this new first of its kind device our total biologic category was flat in Q1 reversing the trend of double-digit declines.
We have the broadest portfolio in hernia repair across all types of products from a wide range of synthetics to natural tissue and now antibiotic coated natural tissue.
We're working with physicians to identify the right products for the right patient and provide a wide range of options for them.
Our hernia fixation line declined 9% this quarter - 7% this quarter within the range of recent experience.
As you'll hear from John DeFord we have some new products in our pipeline that we believe will help us get back to growth in this category.
We are well past the anniversaries of our acquisitions of BioSurgery and that business grew double-digits again this quarter.
We remain bullish on the long-term opportunity here.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
We started off 2015 with several product launches and as you'll hear in my update our pipeline and plans show a very active 2015 and beyond.
I'll start with drug-coated balloons where we’re making good progress on additional sizes and indications worldwide.
We filed the PMA supplement for additional balloon sizes for use in the SFA and popliteal and anticipate launch in the back half of this year.
In our clinical activities we've completed initial follow-up in our Levant 2 Japan study.
We’re in the data analysis phase and we expect to submit in the back half of the year for approval.
Enrolment continues in our below-the-knee and in-stent restenosis IDE studies and we recently submitted are IDE for our AV access study with enrolment anticipated to start in Q3.
We are also working towards the start of our Levant China study and expect to begin enrolment in the back half of the year.
The Levant 2 study design was described in detail in a recent publication authored by Michael Jaff and several investigators in the American Heart Journal.
We also expect 24-month Levant 2 results to the presented at SVS in June.
Also in vascular the LifeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent clinical study is recruiting quickly and we anticipate completing enrolment later this year.
This IDE evaluates the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease.
In other stent graft news our next generation device for use in AV access is nearing completion of development and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4.
This product will require a clinical study for U.S.
approval and we anticipate filing the IDE and initiating a study in the first half of 2016.We have a new Venus stent project that's on a similar development pathway with launch anticipated in Europe in Q4 and an IDE study expected to began around the end of the year.
Next moving to urology.
We've launched our new skyline sub 2 French stone basket family and are working to expand the platform with 2.4 and 3 French versions expected later this year.
Also in endourology we anticipate launching our new Access Sheath System in the back half of the year.
We believe these new products provide the urologist with needed improvements to some of the tools they are currently used in this important interventional space.
In home care we are nearing the launch of a new intermittent self-catheterization product the Magic 3 Touchless slated for release in Q3.
Magic 3 Touchless combines the comfort and insertion benefits of the Magic 3 platform combined with our touchless close system designed to reduce the risk of contamination and infection due to catheter insertion.
We've got a couple of other products in our intermittent catheter family that are slated to launch later this year but I'll hold back the details until we get closer to product release.
Moving to oncology.
We recently received U.S.
regulatory clearance for our freehand stereotaxic system for vascular access named Pinpoint GT.
The Pinpoint GT technology will be offered on the new Site~Rite 8 Ultrasound System slated for launch later in the year.
We believe the combination of Site~Rite Ultrasound Pinpoint GT Needle Guidance and 3CG Diamond Catheter Tip Confirmation in an integration system will provide a complete clinical solution for vascular catheter placements.
In PICCs we’re on track for a Q3 regulatory submission for our new thrombo-resistant coating.
Upon regulatory clearance we plan to launch a broad line of catheters marketed under the covert PICC trade name.
We expect to follow the covert PICCs with a combined antimicrobial and thrombo-resistant coating planned for launch in the back half of 2016.
In midlines we launched the 22 gauge PowerGlide catheter in Q1 completing our sizes in the PowerGlide product family.
We’re also making good progress on our next generation of midline catheters and anticipate our U.S.
regulatory submission in Q4 with a first half 2016 launch.
For the acute hemodialysis patients we’re expanding upon our market-leading Trialysis catheter family with the anticipated regulatory clearance and launch later this quarter of our new Trialysis Slim.
Trialysis Slim incorporates superior flexibility kink resistance and flow rates in excess of 400 milliliters per minute in a small 12 French triple lumen catheter configuration.
I’ll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery.
On our last call we told you about our launch of the first antibiotic coated biologic mesh XenMatrix AB.
As John Weiland told you the product is receiving excellent early feedback and we’re working hard to expand the size matrix available with the additional launches expected over the course of the next several quarters.
We're also making good progress towards the launch of a new product family that incorporates our proven separate barrier technology with our Phasix bioresorbable mesh family to create the Phasix ST.
Phasix ST is designed for intra-abdominal placement and is on track to launch in Q3.
This new offering supplements XenMatrix’s AB - XenMatrix and Phasix to allow us to offer proprietary and differentiated products designed to address the entire spectrum of complex abdominal wall repairs.
Moving onto our BioSurgery product family.
In early Q3 of 2014 we filed our PMA supplement for our Progel sealant seeking expanded use in video-assisted and robot-assisted thoracic surgery.
We received approval from FDA earlier this quarter and I'm pleased to announce the launch is underway ahead of schedule.
Also in January of this year we completed follow-up in our Tridyne vascular sealant pivotal IDE study.
Analysis is complete and the team is working towards PMA submission this quarter.
Following this timeline we anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we're gearing up for the launch in the next couple of weeks of our first spring-loaded resorbable tack device named OPTIFIX.
OPTIFIX has been designed to employ stored energy for ease and efficiency of tack delivery while reducing tissue trauma that’s been associated with some competitive devices.
In past calls I've told you that we have another fixation platform under development but we’ve not disclosed the details.
Now the time is right and I'm pleased to announce that we anticipate launching our new permanent fixation device named CapSure later this quarter.
CapSure is the result of several years of analysis of the permanent fixation market and was designed to reduce the risk of tissue injury due to exposed sharps and concern over adhesions and reliability while providing the functional requirements of a permanent tack including the ability to penetrate hard tissues such as Cooper’s ligament.
With these two fixation launches we're excited to move back to playing offense in this highly competitive space.
Thanks for your attention today.
We look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year.
Now I'll hand our discussion over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let me start by covering certain items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
We had a credit in acquisition related items of $9.2 million pre-tax a $3.9 million pre-tax charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives and we recorded expense of $10.3 million primarily related to the judge's order in the women's health litigation that we work up 500 cases simultaneously.
The P&amp;L impact of these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and in the reconciliation accompanying our Q1 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $508.5 million or 62% of sales for Q1.
On an adjusted basis GP was $498.6 million or 60.8% of sales down 60 basis points from the prior-year quarter consistent with our guidance.
FX cost us 30 basis points in GP this quarter and the new amortization from the Q4 2014 Lutonix approval was 40 basis points in Q1.
Price pressure drove 130 basis points on the revenue line in Q1 and about 50 basis points of headwind on GPs consistent with our expectations.
Our cost improvements drove about 40 basis points of benefit to GPs this quarter and mix was favorable by about 20 basis points.
As we look to Q2 we expect gross margin to be similar to the Q2 2014 level despite FX pressure and the incremental amortization.
SG&amp;A expenses were $235.7 million for the quarter or 28.8% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales was 28.7% a decrease of 90 basis points.
We are on track with our annual guidance of delivering improved P&amp;L leverage for the full-year.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $60.6 million for the first quarter or 7.4% of sales on both a reported and adjusted basis consistent with our guidance.
Interest expense was $11.3 million for the first quarter.
Other income and expense was $16.3 million of expense for the first quarter as-reported and $1.6 million of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.3% on a reported basis and 24.9% on an adjusted basis the same level as a year-ago.
And again our full-year guidance assumes the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit but that will not be included in the reported numbers until it is renewed.
Diluted shares for the period were 75.8 million and we purchased 1.2 million shares during the first quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $2.10 which exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
The balance sheet as of March 31 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of approximately $1.03 billion versus $1.01 billion at December 31.
For the quarter accounts receivable days were up 0.7 days and inventory days were up 0.3 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $29 million for the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.6 billion as of March 31 compared to $1.5 billion at the end of December.
Debt to total cap at the end of the first quarter was about 48% and total shareholder investment was $1.7 billion at March 31.
And looking at Q2 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 4.5% and 5.5% and would expect organic growth to be within the same range.
We are now expecting currency headwinds based on exchange rates of their current levels to reduce reported sales by about 4% for Q2 and the full-year up from about 3% in our original guidance in January.
From an adjusted EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability and the amortization of intangibles we see the second quarter in the $2.15 to $2.19 range.
Despite the challenging and volatile FX environment based on exchange rates at their current levels we expect to deliver adjusted EPS between $8.95 and $9.05 for the full-year of 2015.
And with that I'll hand the call back to Tim.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
Let me now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
To accommodate the number of investors on the call I would ask that you limit yourself to one question only.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question only.
If you have additional questions you may re-enter the queue.
And one moment please for the first question.
Our first question comes from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Go ahead please.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everyone.
I guess for Tim and perhaps Chris.
One of the consistent investor concerns is the ability to fill the gap when the Gore royalties cease really in 2020.
So I was hoping that you guys might help us think a little bit about how you are thinking about that scenario and what options are available as you sit here today thinking about how to fill the gap? Sure.
Appreciate your long-term perspective.
That is clearly something that we’re well aware of.
We've known about it for quite a while now.
We have fully in fact frequently discussed this with the board and clearly have put a plan together to invest back in the company to achieve growth at above market level.
As that continues to manifest if you will and exponentially the company gets larger becomes less of an issue that we have to deal with and frankly doesn't really become a deal - an issue for us until almost the end of I think the last quarter of 2019.
So we have plenty of time to deal with it.
We've got clear sight of what that is but as the company gets larger the issue becomes smaller.
The investments are doing very well the ones that we put in place a couple of years ago that’s not - that plan doesn't stop it kind of continuous and we would expect to continue to grow beyond that.
Chris something to add to that? Yes I think Larry the only other thing I’d add and I think we've talked to investors about this is in addition to the entire objective here being to grow the company in a way that that portion of the income statement becomes smaller and smaller which I think this quarter again shows we’re having good success in doing we certainly over time will have balance sheet flexibility as well as one other arrow in the quiver to deal with the final ending of the royalty.
But as Tim says that runs through August of 2019 and through a combination of growing the business utilizing the balance sheet certainly we expect to continue to be adding through inorganic means over time as well.
We think it's a problem - if you want to call it problem that would be certainly manageable by the time we approach 2019.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike Weinstein with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
I’m going to apologize upfront because we have a couple of calls going on at the same time.
So I may have missed some of this but just the commentary upfront on Lutonix.
Obviously it's tough to try and read market trends with the stocking that goes on and now a competitor coming in but it looked like the first quarter out of the box which was your fourth quarter you had this really strong quarter and sequentially it steps down a little bit because of the entrance of a competitor and maybe less stocking.
Could you say A is that generally an accurate depiction and B can you give us more of a picture of what's happening underneath all of that? Yes I'll take a top-line shot and then I'll give it to John.
I think what's important to us anyway internally within the management group is that for the first quarter we exceeded what our expectations were for the products.
So we’re all about long ramp here in growing this market.
And clearly from what we have budgeted we think that for Q1 fourth quarter aside.
So I'll let John give you some more color.
I think that was the most important fact quite frankly Mike.
Secondly I'd add to that is that we see our momentum building not waning.
And in addition we completed our training of Boston Scientific in Q1.
They'll come on board in Q2 in certain areas and quite frankly as Tim said we exceeded our expectations and we really like where we are right now.
Just from an accounting standpoint Chris will you guys get any stocking benefit from supplying Boston Scientific rests the product in second quarter? Yes I think there will be probably a larger than typical order in the first quarter as they get the product broadly into the hands of their reps in our second quarter.
And then again we'll have to see over time how that plays out in Q3 and Q4 of this calendar year.
But again it's not overly material as we look at the total sales of Lutonix overall for the company but it will be slightly higher order out of the box.
Okay.
And then last question and I’ll let somebody else jump in here.
But could you just talk about the performance of the urology business? That was probably the one business that was probably the most notable ahead of our expectations.
Can you just talk about relative to your own internal model and what was better-than-expected? Yes I think it's interesting we’ve talked for awhile now that unfortunately that business’ growth rate has been masked by some declining categories.
Those declining categories are starting to get relatively immaterial and that’s allowing some of the good things going on there to really shine through.
And it was really I think the Rochester business has done very well.
We saw really growth globally in Q1 there.
The targeted temperature management had a really strong quarter again globally and we're trying to bring value to customers in basic drainage in a market that from a unit standpoint is pretty flat.
But by really bringing trays that allow them to provide efficiency and effectiveness in terms of deploying that product around the hospital and getting nurses to be able to insert it in a consistent way we're seeing good growth.
And so I think you're seeing the impact of the SureStep product in Q1 helping to contribute to that.
So you put those things together and it lines up for pretty nice quarter out of the gate.
Great.
Thanks Chris.
Thanks guys.
Sure Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Go ahead please.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hi Brooks.
On Lutonix again guys.
Understanding the unwillingness to give us a specific number.
Can you speak to the market? There has been some speculation on the street that maybe your initial thoughts on $100 million market should be expanded.
Can you give us some commentary there? And then second is can you give us some of the dynamics between the U.S.
and international markets on the Lutonix device? So I'll take the first one.
We're essentially almost two quarters little over a quarter and a half out of the box in the U.S.
and the new market.
We referenced the stocking order in the fourth quarter.
So it's difficult to - I wouldn't change what we thought the size of the market was based on what we’re seeing so far.
I will tell you this.
We like - we track the order rates.
We like the way that's going.
We like the anecdotal feedback that we’re getting.
Both John and I have been out in the field recently ourselves and continued to feel very optimistic about the anecdotal feedback from the customer base.
So too early to change any macro market size based on a couple of quarters but we’re very pleased with the progress so far and what we’re hearing about the product and technology.
And I'd say on the difference in dynamics between the United States and international.
Really international now is only really Europe to speak of although we have some approvals that are coming through and we’ll launched those products as the approvals start is that we continue to take share internationally specifically in Europe.
We'd like the momentum we have there.
The United States speaks for itself.
I think the market as Tim mentioned we’ve continued focus on that same $100 million in the first full year in the United States.
And I'd say what we are concentrating on is the rollout of the different indications as we finish the clinical trials for the different indications in the United States.
And then geographically as we finish the clinical trials and/or approvals in the major marketplaces becomes a pretty powerful operation having both of those positive items as momentum-builders as you go through the next number of years.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Sure Brooks.
Thank you.
We now have a question from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Go ahead please.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just a couple of really quick ones first on Lutonix.
Last quarter you kind of suggested that how much Lutonix contributed to the growth rate of the company so we could understand what the organic growth rate was of the base business.
And I was wondering if you'd be willing to kind of comment on that here this quarter? Yes Bob it was just a little less than two points of the growth in Q1.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just real quickly I know it's early but either for Tim or for John your thoughts on how you’re competing in the marketplace with Medtronic.
It's really early but are you guys confident that at a minimum this can be 50-50 share? And then lastly I wanted to see if Tim would just comment on the environment we’re in right now from an M&amp;A perspectives and what you're seeing out there is the pipeline full? Just want to get an update there.
Thank you.
Sure.
Yes we actually don't even internally predict market share goals or objectives.
We just try to get a little bit more every day.
So we’re pleased with the positioning of the product.
We think as more of the real world data comes into play versus the clinical trial data that was used for the approvals that becomes increasingly meaningful for us and certainly proceed that way and the market I could tell you firsthand from that.
So we’re pleased with where we are and technologies everything we got it thought it was going to be.
As it relates to the M&amp;A environment we are still extremely active and we were not pleased with the execution last year in terms of getting things done.
It wasn't for lack of effort or emphasis.
It’s just kind of the way deal flow happens.
There is lot of things going on right now and I wouldn't be surprised if you start hearing more from us soon about those kind of things but again you got to have two sides to agree and we’re very active right now.
So we'll let you know as things occur.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Dave Turkaly with JMP securities.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
Just quickly what kind of diligence if any did Boston Scientific do on Lutonix? And I guess if you could just comment on how sort of the number of reps you guys will have combined will compare to Medtronic? Thanks.
We had to make sure they knew how to spell it and we made sure we trained on that.
Beyond that I think with the publication of the data and the fact that was available in the market outside the United States I think they certainly thought they had an diligence to make whatever decisions they ended up making.
I think Dave when you look at the combined commercial presence between ourselves and sort of the proportion of Boston's rep’s time that you could expect would be spent detailing Lutonix we're on a pretty even playing field with the new Medtronic Covidien commercial footprint.
So from that standpoint I think we feel like we're in good shape.
Thanks a lot.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Then we'll go next to Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead please.
Glad to hear Boston call spell Lutonix.
Hopefully they can sell it.
Yes I'm pretty sure they got 100 all across the board.
I’m not sure what I did firstly on it.
I keep [indiscernible].
Okay.
Anyway thanks for taking the question.
I guess Tim I was wondering if you could just comment more broadly just on like the vascular landscape? I guess more intravascular just with Cardinal's pending acquisition of Cortis and what that may mean just for your business? I know there has been a lot of pressure from the stents.
Just kind of perspectives on or any concerns that you might have as they try to I guess genericise to some degree - some end-markets.
Sure.
Well if I can only - I can't speak for them.
Obviously you're going to have to ask them what their perspectives were.
I can tell you that from our experience in my own personal experience in fact there is a very interesting report that was just issued by one of the major consulting companies about an analysis done on product leadership versus breadth of line which kind of wins out at the end of the day.
We have nothing to do with that analysis but it does point out the fact which is one we concur with market leadership and technology leadership as opposed to breadth of line is where we would rather be.
Let's put it that way.
And I think that clearly you don't get many companies larger than J&amp;J and they decided for whatever the reasons were to sell that business.
So we like product leadership.
We like - even in this environment we think having the best product that clinicians prefer for their patients is important.
And beyond that you have to probably ask them about their decisions there and what they expect to do with that.
So you don't expect any additional pressure just from a pricing standpoint? Don’t know.
I guess it's to be seen.
Okay.
And then maybe Chris could you comment on just given the change in FX rate movements? What if any FX from an EPS perspective you are absorbing since you did maintain your EPS guidance? Yes it's relatively - we talked about $0.25 for the full-year.
It's slightly higher than that Kristen.
There was a number of moving parts as you can imagine and certainly there are currencies that have weakened where we've got large expense bases as well.
So it's probably just slightly higher than the $25 million -- $0.25 for the full-year.
And I think a range around where currencies are today I think we can manage through if there is another material step-down we’ll obviously have to reassess that.
But clearly the business and the operations are performing in a way that has allowed us to absorb that slight incremental increase.
Last kind of random one.
Other was down pretty significantly this quarter.
Can you just maybe remind us what's in there and why? Yes sure.
And actually that was when we acquired Rochester there were some distributed products in Europe that came with the acquisition that we essentially discontinued really in April 1st of last year.
So those are about $1.1 million of sales in last year's Q1 in other that we discontinued.
So that's driving the large - most of the decline there in other.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead please.
Good afternoon.
Chris just thinking about vascular.
I know you didn't update guidance for the year but given that Lutonix was roughly in line with our number within $1 million the non-Lutonix business obviously did dramatically better.
When I think about your vascular guidance for the year if Lutonix builds momentum as per some of the comments on the call it just appears that the vascular guidance is either conservative or you’re certainly going to be at the upper end of the range.
So just wondering if you could talk about non-vascular performance if Lutonix builds or what that means for vascular guidance? And then I had a quick follow-up.
Yes I think we'll take it quarter at a time David.
Certainly from that respect we’re off to a very good start.
We've got again good ambitions for the rest of the year in vascular.
We saw a good performance to some of the other categories frankly better than we had expected in Q1 including in the filter segment as well.
So we'll take it as we come and we get through Q2 and we'll certainly reassess how we think the full-year looks.
But everybody in each of the businesses certainly is doing they can to get to the top end of the range for the year.
But it's a good start for us.
And also biopsy had a pretty strong Q1 and a lot of that is outside the U.S.
So that's a focus product area for us in emerging market and they had a strong quarter.
Okay just two quick follow-ups.
The number one there was some commentary on the PICC business and GPO positioning.
I mean there has been a lot of jockeying in the PICC market these last couple of years with some of your smaller competitors.
I'm just curious why now why this year and not the prior two years that we saw more significant GPO pricing? And the other follow-up was just on the willfulness suit as it relates to Gore.
Any updated timing on when the proceeds may flow or just the updated legal time from your perspective? Thank you.
I think you meant the port business because we had a very strong PICC business in - PICC results in Q1.
So we did see some pressure in the port business primarily around new GPO agreements that we signed early in 2014 so that this is really the first quarter they are kicking in as a new agreement for us.
So there is some price pressure because of the lower prices in those GPO agreements.
If you look at our units we set our units were just about flat but it's more pricing than anything else there.
Yes.
And we have actual signal that David on the January call we called specifically out port pricing pressure.
Those are long-term contracts.
We obviously thought strategically have made sense for us to sign them and we’ll obviously lap pricing pressure over time.
On willfulness we would expect as we sit here today to receive the funds at some point during Q2 all signs lead to that.
With interest it’s just under $209 million and they have our bank account information and we’re anxiously waiting to receive.
But I would expect to be during Q2.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Taylor with Barclays.
Go ahead please.
Hi this is actually Yong Lee in for Matt.
Thanks for taking our questions.
The first question I guess in the U.S.
we’ve been hearing about lot of improvement in terms of volume and utilization not a lot but incremental improvement.
I guess are you seeing that trend as well and can you talk about maybe from European perspective as well? In fact I think that while we've seen certain glimmers of improvement and primarily you saw a little glimmer in March’s improvement in terms of volumes.
That was probably offset by January and February’s volumes where there wasn't a substantial improvement in hospitals in United States.
So if you aggregate it all I'd say we’re optimistic but we have not seen anything extremely tangible and I think I’d evidence that by the way we look at our basic business and drainage quite frankly.
In terms of Europe there was a number of reimbursement issues that are going on in Europe.
France is foremost in those.
We didn't have a great Q1 in our European business as you probably saw but we’re optimistic that those volumes will come back as we go through the course of the year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then I guess a quick second question.
Regarding the emerging markets business can you just talk about some of the key geographies that are driving the growth as well as maybe the sustainability of that growth? Yes they are all the ones we’ve mentioned previously.
So there is the ones in Asia and then the ones in Latin America and then Eastern Europe and the Middle East and they're all doing very well right now.
All right great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
This is Ravi in for Rich Newitter.
I have a couple of maybe big picture questions.
First I’ll start with - a lot of people talk about what assets you are going to buy.
I’m curious to get your thoughts on some of the businesses that you said that are now sort of less than 1% of sales perhaps PI and women’s health.
What's the strategic outlook for those segments? Well let me back up and give you a broad answer.
So when you look at the portfolio 14 000 SKUs this isn't new.
This has been - I've been here 23 years.
It's been like since I've been here.
You have 25% or so of the SKUs that are actually declining over time.
So the balancing of the portfolio and where we make the investments and where we look for acquisitions where we expand sales force etcetera etcetera you're constantly going after the higher growth areas probably very similar the way you manage your own investment portfolios.
So we don't get too hung up on movement of one or another.
I will tell you this relative to divestiture decisions it's a lot easier to get rid of a business than it is a product line.
And we'd rather have - having done both we'd much rather have our management teams focused on increased revenue growth opportunities than pruning off product lines.
Yes and the only thing I'd add Ravi is obviously you'd expect and we do run an economic analysis to determine whether or not the value of some of those declining product lines are worth more to us if we resource them appropriately from a cash flow standpoint as opposed to what you might if even anything get through a sale of a product line.
So certainly the things we are keeping rest assured we think that’s the right decision even if they are in a declining mode.
Great thanks.
And then maybe one question on hernia.
A lot of - it looks like the OPTIFIX and the CapSure products coming out soon.
I'd like to hear maybe your general view on how many of minimally invasive surgery and potentially robotics can affect the long-term view or the long-term outlook of that business especially if there is more conversion from open to MIS procedures? Sure I'll take the bigger picture.
We're very pleased by the way with the positioning of the entire hernia portfolio.
We've got great breadth of line.
We've got strength now.
The one area we were kind of weakest in my view was the fixation area John DeFord talked about couple of projects that we had alluded to previously but feel pretty good about them now.
So we've got a great - probably if you were to go by category maybe our single strongest portfolio right now across the various vertical groups within that broader category.
As it relates to the robotic thing our view is we provide the products the implants etcetera that would be used with the robotics.
So I don't see dramatically impacting the business.
In fact several of our products to the extent that there are people I think there is more talk than action right now relative to that.
But we know that a couple of our products have become the product of choice to be used in some of those procedures.
With that I'll let John DeFord put some color.
Sure I think just to weigh in I think maybe you were alluding to in robotic surgeries fixation devices aren’t typically needed because they can suture with the robotic device.
Right.
And so again I think we see that - we’re well positioned.
We don't see that happening overnight.
And certainly robotic surgery is pretty limited right now.
There are some benefits of course.
You can close the abdominal wound before some of the fixation is required.
You can do a few other things.
But it's pretty limited in the procedures that you can use robotics in today.
So we think we've got a good mix.
As Tim and John had said earlier we think we've got from a mesh or implant perspective a great mix of products that work well with the robotics surgery as well as with laparoscopic and open.
And we also think our fixation products are going to be useful in a number of different repairs that aren’t necessarily amenable to robotics today.
Thanks.
I appreciate that very detailed response.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the question.
Good afternoon everybody.
I wanted just to start with a follow-up on your M&amp;A commentary Tim.
There is a tremendous amount of deal euphoria in healthcare as obviously everyone has observed but can you maybe just talk to us about how you think about cash EPS accretion versus ROIC? I mean I understand the benefit of a press release that goes out with a 15% accretion number in it but also obviously you're stuck with the asset over time.
So how do you think about really finding value given the M&amp;A environment now? Yes it's an interesting question.
So I think you go - and this isn't a new thing.
Those kinds of properties and models if you will call accretion versus revenue growth if you want to just book in the two have always been there.
We've had our eyes wide open to those especially when you get into larger deals someone is actually got to go find that synergy and execute against that.
And that's always tends to be a little more difficult than people think.
And while you're doing that those are the same management groups that you’re expecting to grow the other part of the business that you have.
So really the decision for our management group is where you want your people and your management teams spending their time.
So we have watched what's occurred in the marketplace.
We’ve watched our investors that reacted to those deals.
It's kind of interesting.
And we clearly have targets.
We put them into different categories but we clearly are more of the revenue growth mindset at the moment versus the accretive and slower revenue growth mode.
Yes and the only thing I’d add David is ROI is very important to us.
So when we’re evaluating opportunities we're trying to be good stewards of shareholders’ capital.
And we think the notion of near-term accretion for a transaction that frankly is not a good return for shareholders.
We’re going to be very careful as to how we deploy capital and we're going to do it in a way that's not going to only be driven by near-term accretion.
It’s got to make sense strategically from a return standpoint and if it’s accretive that's obviously terrific as well.
But all of those factors are certainly important to us and we're not going to weight short-term accretion over ROI.
Okay.
That's helpful context.
Thank you.
And then maybe just a follow-up on the business and perhaps sort of along the same lines emerging markets obviously remains quite strong for you but still as a percentage of sales it's relatively small compared to the peer group.
And it just seems like it's going to take a while to see that number move in sort of a step function type of way.
And I guess we've seen some others in med-tech go into emerging markets and pay decent premiums for assets there.
I mean is there a strategy - is there a vehicle organically to accelerate the emerging markets adoption where that can get to a mid-teens call it percentage of sales number or is that something that would have to come through external investment? I think that the game plan that we put in place which was investing heavily in building our teams and people around the world and then arming them with the products that come through our R&amp;D pipeline and do that via great training of physicians is that right long-term strategy for us.
We made the investments.
We're seeing the growth in all those segments.
We like the game plan and I think it's one-step at a time for us but we believe that's how you build a meaningful business long-term that has great staying power.
And I think coming back to ROI I think if you look at some of those larger transactions in emerging markets I question what the returns are going to be on those.
And again coming back to the right balance between risk and growth to John's point we think we've got the right strategy.
We certainly are looking for targets that make it through our filters and we spent a lot of time looking.
And again our bar is reasonable but relatively high and we clearly have not found targets that we think makes sense for us.
In the meantime we're doing a terrific job growing the business organically.
Okay great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening.
Thanks a lot for taking the questions.
Chris just one for you.
I was hoping you could help us think about longer term operating margin expansion opportunities and getting back to the levels that you had - Bard had performed at prior to 2013.
Looks like you’re doing a great job navigating the reserve in the FX this year and seeing some operating margin expansion to get to the midpoint of EPS range but how should we think about operating margins in the out-years? Yes I think this year is going to be a nice down payment I think Josh on returning to those levels.
Certainly as we talked about some of the portfolio moves we made in 2013 were dilutive in terms of exiting the EP business and adding Rochester in particular.
Those were the right moves for the company no question.
And we’re really pleased with the portfolio.
Having said that it did set us back a bit.
'15 will be a nice down-payment.
Every year our commitment is to drive operating leverage and operating improvement.
That's what the management team is tasked and committed to do.
And I won't give you a point in time where we'll get back to that level.
But I think we're well on our way and everything we've done in constructing the portfolio in terms of adding higher margin products.
To John’s point we've got infrastructures built in emerging markets that are going to be leverageable for a number of years to come.
We feel good about the ability for us to continue to move higher year after year.
And just one follow-up.
Thanks a lot for that Chris and one follow-up for John DeFord and maybe Tim can pitch in on just the vascular business now being leader in stents as well as drug-coated balloons.
Is there anything else in the portfolio that you need to fill your bag with and maybe a specific commentary on your outlook for the combo of atherectomy and drug-coated balloons and the need for Bard to have an atherectomy technology? Thanks a lot gentlemen.
Sure.
We constantly look at what we think are the right combinations of products within all of our spaces vascular certainly.
We've always had a close eye on atherectomy in particular.
We’re always a little nervous about the reimbursement in that space.
That said it seems to continue to hold much to my surprise but something that we'll be continuing to keep a close eye on.
We think the potential combination with DCB could be interesting.
We’re already seeing and running some studies around using our technology with stents using our technology in other chronic cases.
And so we'll continue to keep that as something to evaluate.
And I would just add.
I think a lot of the opportunity we have we already own.
So the ability to get further indications for below-the-knee we think that's really interesting being able to go after smaller vessels with DCB.
The whole AV access area we think is a huge opportunity both relative to stent grafts and the drug-coated technology and/or combinations to those.
So we think there is a lot of runway left both in our internal revenue and expanding the markets just what the platforms that we have today.
Yes.
And we just mentioned today a couple new products that we expect to be launching in Europe by the end of the year entering the Venus market with a Venus stent technology and also our AV Access the next generation stent graft kind of products.
So we think those are organic ways to continue to expand the pipeline as well.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And it does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Bard’s management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody for staying with us.
Sorry we went over a little bit over the hour.
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Bard employees around the world for a very strong start for the year and look forward to updating you on our progress at the end of the next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.