Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer; Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management team will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's March 31 2015 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors and Bard's 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of July 23 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to the prior-year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I'd like to welcome all of you to Bard's second quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
We would expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 25 minutes and the total call will last about an hour.
The agenda today will go as follows.
I'll begin with an overview of the results for the second quarter.
John Weiland our President and Chief Operating Officer will review second quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior Vice President of Science Technology and Clinic Affairs will give you a brief update on our product pipeline and then Chris Holland our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will review the second quarter income statement and the balance sheet as well as our expectations for the third quarter and the remainder of the year.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Second quarter 2015 net sales totaled $859.8 million that's up 4% over Q2 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 8% on a constant currency basis.
Currency impact for the quarter was unfavorable by about 380 basis points.
The royalty payment we received from Gore in the quarter was approximately $36.9 million.
That's down 2% from a year ago.
We believe the decline was due to FX headwinds but we don't receive that level of detail from them.
Our organic revenue growth was approximately 8.2% this quarter which exceeded our expectations.
That does include a little more than 250 basis points of benefit from drug-coated balloon sales in the U.S.
alone.
Net loss for the second quarter of 2015 was $54.7 million and diluted loss per share was $0.74 which included a net charge for product liability.
Excluding this and other items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later adjusted second quarter 2015 net income and diluted earnings per share were $154.3 million and $2.27.
That's up 8% and 10% respectively.
These adjusted results exceeded the guidance we provided for the quarter and the first half of the year has come in a little bit better than we projected.
Looking at the revenue growth geographically compared to the second quarter of 2014 net sales in the U.S.
increased 7% on a constant currency basis Europe grew 5% Japan was up 2% and our other international businesses grew 20%.
We continue to be very pleased with the acceleration we're seeing in emerging markets which represented 10% of our total sales in the second quarter with all of our major geographic categories contributing strong double-digit growth.
We're seeing good returns from our increased investments over the last couple of years.
As we told you a key objective of our investment plan was to accelerate the growth rate of the company.
In Q2 every business performed either at the top or above our stated guidance range for each category.
And each of the major growth drivers that we've been highlighting mainly emerging markets drug-coated balloons biosurgery homecare and targeted temperature management all grew in the healthy double-digits this quarter.
We continue to believe that executing our investment plan will allow us to provide a sustainable above-market revenue growth rate for the overall portfolio in the mid to high single digits with attractive returns for shareholders.
On the business development front in early July we acquired Vascular Pathways and its technology to enhance our wire-assisted vascular access devices for approximately $90 million plus milestones.
While the existing revenue is very small we believe this strengthens our future pipeline and revenue opportunity long term in a very large and important market for us.
With that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I will be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to prior-year period on a constant currency basis unless noted otherwise.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Total net sales were $248.6 million up 7% over last year on an as reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the royalty payment and the transition agreement related to the divestiture of electrophysiology products total Vascular sales were up 15% in Q2 with the United Stated business up 18% and international up 11%.
Sales in our surgical graft category were down 5% in the second quarter within the range of recent experience.
Our endovascular business grew 17% in the second quarter excluding the Gore royalty.
The key driver of this growth was strong Lutonix sales globally which drove our peripheral PTA line to increase 45%.
Our stent business declined 3% in Q2 consistent with recent trends.
Sales in our vena cava filter line were up 8% in Q2.
And as disclosed previously we recently had FDA inspections that resulted in a warning letter and we are working closely with the agency to resolve the issues identified.
And to complete the Vascular category our biopsy family of products grew 11% this quarter driven by over 40% growth in emerging markets.
Biopsy is one of our more global product lines in the portfolio with approximately 60% of our sales coming from outside the United States.
Let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $209.2 million up 1% on an as-reported basis and up 4% on a constant currency basis compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The United States business was up 4% while internationally we grew 6%.
Our basic drainage business was up 3% both globally and in the United States with our I.C.
Foley business down 2% globally and 4% in the United States.
Our targeted temperature management products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our continence business was up 4% in Q2 compared to a year ago.
Sales in urological specialties were up 3% this quarter including our brachytherapy business which grew 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock catheter stabilization line increased 2% in the second quarter.
Let's move on to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $235.2 million an increase of 5% on an as-reported basis and 8% on a constant currency basis over Q2 last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 5% and international sales were up 17%.
Our port business was up 1% versus Q2 of last year.
Our PICC revenue was up 11% this quarter with each of our major geographical regions performing well.
As we've said before we believe PICCs represent our largest single outside of the United States revenue growth opportunity and we are focused on developing the international markets and advancing lives in the delivery of healthcare across the globe.
Our vascular access ultrasound product line grew 20% this quarter with significant growth coming from both the United States and internationally.
And to close out this category our dialysis access product line was up 7% this quarter.
Let's conclude with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $143.8 million up 3% as reported and up 6% on a constant currency basis.
United States sales were up 6% and international sales were up 9% this quarter.
We are pleased with the continued momentum from our biosurgery business which grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 8% in the second quarter which is the best result since the first quarter of 2011.
Our synthetic hernia products grew 9% this quarter and our natural tissue products grew 8% driven by our new XenMatrix antibacterial porcine mesh or XenAB.
And our hernia fixation business which is included in the soft tissue repair subtotal declined 5% this quarter.
John DeFord will tell you about a couple of launches that we hope can change the trajectory here.
Closing out the surgical category in Q2 our performance irrigation business was down 35% similar to last quarter as we told you that we discontinued certain product lines in this category at the beginning of 2015.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
I'll now turn you over to John DeFord for a pipeline update.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</strong> Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
Q2 was a pretty busy quarter for our R&amp;D teams and for the sake of time I'll just hit some of the highlights today.
I'll start with drug-coated balloons where we're excited to report the publication of the LEVANT 2 study in the New England Journal of Medicine on July 9.
We also released a first look at the 24 month results from the LEVANT 2 study and data from our global registry at the Society of Vascular Surgery meeting in mid-June.
While those are important events we're continuing to push forward with additional configurations sizes and indications worldwide.
Our PMA supplement for 120 millimeter and 150 millimeter balloon lengths was recently approved and the rollout of these sizes is underway for use in the SFA and popliteal arteries.
Enrollment continues in our below-the-knee IDE and in-stent restenosis studies and we received IDE approval and enrolled the first few patients in our AV access drug-coated balloon study.
We're also on track to start our LEVANT China clinical trial and enroll our first patient before the end of the year.
Also in Vascular the LifeStream balloon expandable covered stent IDE continues to enroll very rapidly and I am pleased to announce that we've completed enrollment of the initial cohort required for analysis of our primary endpoint.
We're continuing to enroll a larger cohort and anticipate completing recruitment by the end of the year.
This clinical study is evaluating the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease with a nine-month follow up.
In other stent graft news our next generation device for use in AV access is in final internal testing and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4.
This product will require a clinical study for U.S.
approval and we anticipate filing the IDE and initiating a study in the first half 2016.
Our Vena stent project is on a similar development pathway and we anticipate launching in Europe in Q4 and initiating an IDE study around the end of the year.
Next moving to urology and home care we're anticipating the launch of a new intermittent self-catheterization product the MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS later this quarter.
MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS combines the comfort and insertion benefits of the MAGIC 3 platform with our TOUCHLESS closed system to reduce the risk of contamination and infection due to catheter insertion in more challenging environments outside of the hospital.
In June we launched our new HYDROSIL Rose 2 intermittent catheter designed specifically for the female patient.
HYDROSIL Rose 2 incorporates a new handle design to further ease insertion with the technology of our MAGIC 3 silicone catheter and very low friction coating.
The new handle is also designed to simplify the interface of the catheter with the drainage bag for enhanced patient control.
Closing this category I'm happy to tell you about our new self-lubricating catheterization product the MAGIC 3 Go.
This new family of catheters anticipated to begin rollout around the end of the year incorporates our new and proprietary coating technology that provides a hydrophilic low-friction insertion without the mess and inconvenience of a water sachet.
This new coating provides a sterile and wetted catheter surface straight from the package without excess moisture and is designed specifically to address the needs of users outside the acute setting that may have limited dexterity.
Moving to Oncology earlier this month we launched the new Site-Rite 8 ultrasound system with integrated 3CG diamond in Europe.
The Site-Rite 8 with Pinpoint GT technology and 3CG diamond is slated for U.S.
launch in Q4.
We believe the combination of ultrasound needle guidance and catheter tip confirmation in an integrated system will provide a full-featured user-friendly and intuitive solution for vascular catheter placement.
In PICCs we've submitted for U.S.
regulatory clearance a new catheter line that's highly resistant to the chemicals used in chemotherapy as well as cleaning and disinfecting agents.
This new and proprietary material is designed for extended exposure to these various solutions while maintaining the catheter characteristics that have made our PICCs the market leader.
We anticipate product launch in Q4.
As Tim announced we've recently closed the acquisition of Vascular Pathways and have begun selling the AccuCath product.
We believe the combination of our PICCs PowerGlide Midline family and AccuCath will help us bring the best guidewire-assisted peripheral devices to a broad spectrum of patients with vascular access needs.
We're also working toward the launch in the first half of 2016 of a next generation of both the PowerGlide and AccuCath products.
For the acute hemodialysis patient we've recently launched our new Trialysis Slim catheter.
Trialysis Slim incorporates superior flexibility and kink resistance with flow rates in excess of 400 milliliters per minute and a small 12 French triple lumen catheter configuration.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with surgery and I'm pleased to present a series of launches ongoing or anticipated this quarter.
First in hernia repair our new Phasix ST is expected to launch in just a couple of weeks.
Phasix ST incorporates our proven Sepra barrier technology with our bioresorbable Phasix mesh to provide a fully resorbable ventral hernia repair solution.
This new offering supplements XenMatrix AB XenMatrix and Phasix and allows us to offer proprietary and differentiated products that address the spectrum of complex abdominal wall repairs.
Moving on to our biosurgery product family in Q2 we filed our PMA supplement seeking approval for our new TRIDYNE Vascular Sealant and continue to anticipate approval and launch in mid-2016.
And finally in mesh fixation we're in the early launch phase of our OPTIFIX spring-loaded resorbable tack device.
OPTIFIX has been designed to employ stored energy for ease and efficiency of tack delivery while reducing tissue trauma that's been associated with some other fixation devices.
We're also in the early rollout of our new permanent fixation device named CapSure.
CapSure is designed to reduce the risk of tissue injury due to exposed sharps seen on some other permanent fixation devices and incorporates a small cap on the tack to reduce the risk of adhesions also seen with some other products.
With these two fixation launches we're excited to move back to playing offence in this highly competitive space.
Thanks for your attention.
Let me know hand it over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let's first start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
This quarter we received $210.5 million related to the willfulness ruling in the Gore litigation.
In product liability matters based on recent developments including progress on several large settlements in Q2 we recorded a net charge of $343.7 million primarily related to pelvic health product litigation.
We also had acquisition related items of $4.5 million in the quarter and charges of $8.5 million related to restructuring and productivity initiatives.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statement and the reconciliation accompanying our Q2 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $526.1 million or 61.2% of sales for Q2.
On an adjusted basis GP was 61.4% of sales up 10 basis points from the prior-year quarter a little better than we expected.
New amortization of intangibles relating to activity in the last 12 months cost us about 30 basis points year-over-year this quarter.
Price was unfavorable at 120 basis points on the revenue line and 40 basis points in gross profit consistent with expectations.
And foreign exchange was about a 50 basis point headwind to gross margin in the quarter.
Mix was favorable by 40 basis points and our cost improvements and the timing of manufacturing variances drove approximately 90 basis points of favorability in GP in Q2.
As we've described in the past manufacturing variances can be somewhat lumpy from quarter-to-quarter and in comparison to prior year causing some ebbs and flows in GP.
So in Q3 we expect the gross margin of about 61% even.
Our cost savings and margin improvement programs are on track and we remain comfortable with our full-year guidance of GPs of between 61.4% and 61.8%.
SG&amp;A expenses were $250 million for the quarter or 29.1% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A as a percentage of net sales was 29% even or 60 basis points lower than Q2 of 2014 consistent with our full-year guidance.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $64 million for the second quarter or 7.4% of sales on a reported basis.
On an adjusted basis R&amp;D expense as a percentage of sales was 7.3% again consistent with our full-year guidance.
I'll remind you that a couple of years ago we significantly increased the level of R&amp;D investment and we are now seeing leverage from that higher investment level as sales increase.
We remain on offense from an investment standpoint and based on what we've seen in the results in the first half of the year on sales and income we intend to increase funding towards certain projects in both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D that we believe drive long-term shareholder value.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the second quarter and other income and expense was $141.7 million of expense for the second quarter as reported or zero on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.9% down 80 basis points from the prior year.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate for the full year to improve between zero and 50 basis points when compared to the full-year 2014.
As a reminder our full-year EPS guidance continues to assume the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit in Q4.
Diluted shares for the period were 75.5 million and we repurchased approximately 194 000 shares in the second quarter.
The net result is adjusted EPS of $2.27 well above the range we provided by the quarter driven primarily by the overachievement in sales.
The balance sheet as of June 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion compared $1.03 billion at March 31.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 0.4 days and inventory days were up 0.6 days.
Capital expenditures totaled $28.4 million in the quarter.
On the liability side total debt was $1.4 billion as of June 30 compared to $1.6 billion at March 31.
Debt to total capital at the end of the second quarter was about 46% and total shareholder investment was $1.7 billion as of June 30.
Now moving to financial guidance for Q3 we are expecting constant currency sales growth between 6% and 7% and organic sales growth between 6.5% and 7.5%.
We expect the Gore royalty to decline compared to the prior year due to foreign exchange.
With regard to the full year we now expect constant currency sales growth to be between 5% and 6% and organic sales growth to be between 5.5% and 6.5% which is a full 150 basis point improvement from our original guidance in January.
And we now expect foreign exchange to reduce sales for both Q3 and the full year by about 350 basis points.
From an EPS standpoint excluding items affecting comparability we expect the third quarter in the range of $2.21 to $2.25 per share reflecting a somewhat lower gross margin and the higher R&amp;D spend compared to Q2 and the prior year.
For the full year we're increasing our adjusted EPS guidance by $0.05 to a range of $9 to $9.10.
This higher range reflects modest dilution from our recent acquisition and the increased investments we expect to make in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D during the second half of 2015.
In summary the first half of the year has gone quite well from both a sales and profitability perspective.
As we now move to the second half we remain focused on executing our investment plan and pursuing strategic opportunities with the clear objective of driving attractive and sustainable revenue growth profitability and shareholder returns over the long term.
I'll now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now turn the call back to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the number of investors on the call I'd ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
As Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up only.
If you have additional questions you may reenter the queue.
One moment for the first question.
We have a question from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thanks can you hear me okay? Sure can Bob.
Sure.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Good afternoon.
Given the outperformance in revenues I wanted to focus my questions there.
So I guess from a top-down perspective as you look at the composition of the growth drivers is there anything in this quarter that you think was maybe one-time in nature? And also Tim for you do you think this had anything to do with kind of a pickup in markets? Or is this really more Bard-specific innovation that's driving the growth? Sure.
With respect to the first question Bob and I think we've tried to capture it in our guidance our organic revenue growth guidance for Q3 of course Q2 was the first quarter in which Boston Scientific was distributing the Lutonix balloon as well.
As we've talked about we certainly expected some of those initial orders to be stocking orders.
It's difficult to be at all precise in terms of what portion of it were but certainly that probably would be the one item.
And we had signaled that clearly coming into the quarter that is relatively one-time in nature.
Obviously only a couple of quarters to cycle through that otherwise I think everything else is really part of the core at this point.
Yeah as it relates Bob to the underlying market it still is hard to say exactly.
Things feel a little bit better.
It's hard to hang your hat on a lot of specifics.
Clearly we watch other competitors and companies in our space or close to it and ancillary spaces and try to get a feel from their trends.
I'd say for the first half of the year it's been somewhat positive although it is mixed when you look at some of the larger companies there.
So it's hard to say.
I would say we're pleased with our emerging market growth and that's a lot of moving parts but everything seem to be moving in the right direction for the quarter for us.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Yeah that was – So my second question one of the things that I thought was impressive is that in addition to drug-coated balloons it looks like the underlying core business also accelerated here.
So was emerging markets kind of in that 20% threshold like you've been seeing or did that accelerate? And then maybe lastly if you could comment a little bit on hernia because you've got some product momentum going there which I know is a very high-margin business.
So if you could just talk about maybe in a little more detail some of these launches that you've recently had and have coming in the near future and just put those in perspective for us about how big an opportunity those might be? Thank you I think the quarter could be summed up as that we had really very consistent growth through all the different businesses and geographies.
I mean it was hard to go through our entire portfolio and find a weakness in it this quarter.
As it relates to emerging markets and we actually without giving out any numbers of what our actual growth was we did see an uptick in growth and it really was across the board of the emerging markets.
Again the consistency theme that we started with.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> And Bob just jumping in on the pipeline and some of the launches I think we have had a pretty good string here of some good launches around the company XenAB for example that John talked about.
The Phasix product in the synthetics seems to be doing well.
We've talked about Phasix ST as a upcoming launch here in the next few weeks and then obviously OPTIFIX and CapSure really too new to have changed trajectory yet.
But we think that all of those and you talk about hernia in particular are a pretty reasonable bag that we've got right now of new technology a lot of stuff for the rest to talk about and a lot of good products to help patients.
Larry Keusch with Raymond James is next.
Please go ahead.
Mr.
Keusch please press your mute button we can't hear you.
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry about that.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> For Tim and Chris I wanted to touch on the capital allocation.
Obviously Tim you've stated in the past that you're a little disappointed with the cadence of M&amp;A last year and here we are sitting in July with not much done yet.
So I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about the environment and do you still think you have some opportunity there? And then obviously not a whole lot of stock repurchased during the quarter so really just trying to understand you guys have a lot of cash a lot of cash flow generation kind of what the plans there are? Sure.
I'll cover that broadly and if Chris wants to comment relative to anything specific I'll let him jump in.
Our strategic use of cash has not changed strategic first.
But we continue to be extremely active in the business development front.
That's a bit opportunistic and timing to bring things along but we're as active as we've been.
And hopefully we'll be able to post some more things going forward.
But certainly that's more timing-related than effort or focus-related.
And the share buyback would be the second use of cash and dividend third beyond that.
Chris do you want to...? And Larry we'll continue to do both.
Obviously we knew we would be closing the acquisition in early July so obviously we had a use of cash coming into Q3.
And as we move forward through Q3 and Q4 I would expect us to continue to be active on the repurchase side always with a view to what the pipeline looks like.
And as Tim said and as you guys all well know it ebbs and flows and you can't exactly predict which ones are going to get over the finish line despite the I think very high level of activity that we have.
So the priorities are clear.
We'd love to be closing more.
We're certainly trying.
And absent that and in conjunction with that we'll continue to return cash to shareholders in a pretty consistent basis between buybacks and obviously the slightly increased dividend.
Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan is next.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So Tim this is your best quarter since I think the fourth quarter of 2008.
What do you think – besides Lutonix and the launch which we're all aware of what do you think kicked in this quarter in the base business? And it looks like you had some U.S.
businesses that did a lot better than they've been doing trend-wise but you also had like surgery had a really big business outside the U.S.
so it's kind of all over the map.
What was special this quarter that kicked in? And obviously based on your guidance you're assuming a high level of sustainability.
Yeah really there wasn't any magic formula.
We've been making a number of different investments as you know for several years across the board both in SG&amp;A sales force expansion and R&amp;D.
And a lot of those just happened to come together from an execution point of view in the quarter.
As John said it was very consistent across the board both from a product and geographic standpoint and I give a lot of credit to the management teams and the employees around the world for a very high level of execution in the quarter.
Okay.
So if I look at some of the different businesses so surgery outside the U.S.
as I mentioned was up 9% this quarter versus down 4% last quarter.
Part of that was because of the product lines you discontinued in irrigation.
But like that high single-digit performance in surgery outside the U.S.
that's sustainable obviously.
The Oncology performance outside the U.S.
which has been fantastic in the mid-teens or better that's sustainable? I wouldn't disagree with your viewpoint on that Mike.
We've talked for a while getting productivity in the sales forces that we've expanded.
We talk a lot about the pipeline of registrations in markets around the world all of that's been happening.
And you've got now larger more productive sales forces with more products in their bag.
And again it's two-plus years into the investment plan and I think you're seeing again Mike a lot of the results of those investments.
That's great.
Nice to see you guys.
Congrats.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
David Lewis with Morgan Stanley is next.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick questions.
Chris just first for you on the reinvestment.
It's obviously a dramatic opportunity here on the top line you're reinvesting some of that away but given the prior investment over the last 18 months can you give us a sense of where these investments in the second half of the year are going relative to where the prior investments were the last 15 or 18 months? And what does this tell us about the abilities to drive leverage as we look forward into 2016? And I had a quick follow-up.
Yeah I think clearly even with these investments David over the coming years we certainly intend to and believe we can continue to drive leverage.
I think the balance we're trying to strike is this sustainability question to take advantage of strength to make sure that we're doing everything we can with the pipeline and with the emerging geographies to continue to strengthen them over time.
And again I think this quarter and how we've done in the first half gives us some of that luxury.
We're frankly looking at some additional opportunities in emerging markets on the sales force side with a couple of product categories including in China.
We're ramping up some of the clinical trial work in a number of places.
John DeFord mentioned the trial in China.
And there are a couple of other projects that frankly we're able to turn on as we move into the back half of the year that we probably wouldn't have been able to if we hadn't performed quite as well as we have through the first half.
So we're trying to strike a balance with delivering strong returns in the near term but also continuing to set the portfolio up to drive attractive organic growth rates for the long term.
And that's the challenge and that's how we're trying to manage it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then John you spent a fair amount of time on the call talking about intermittent catheters and that doesn't happen that often.
So I wonder if you could talk about the how you're seeing your portfolio and how you could exploit that opportunity in light of the patent expiry coming up for Coloplast SpeediCath.
Thank you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Sure.
Well I think again just as Chris said and as Tim said we've had a lot of focus on execution and getting products through our development pipeline.
And so you see we're in a position to talk about some of these products that have been in the development pipeline and we're either launching or very near launch.
So it's a pretty exciting time for us.
I think as far as the intellectual property goes look we're certainly aware of all of that.
We already had internal developments of our own.
We think that we're in good shape and obviously on a go-forward basis we'll continue to look at ways that we can expand and develop products to meet the needs of our patients.
Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank is next.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
I just wanted to address a couple things.
First with respect to the willfulness how should we just think about the cash that you're going to be receiving? Should we be thinking about it in the same context with respect to the lump sum that you received in terms of reinvestment in the context of giving back half to shareholders and reinvesting the rest back into the business? Or should we just think about that in terms of going to offset maybe some of the increased product liability claims that you have? How should we think about that offsetting from a P&amp;L perspective? Sure Kristen.
The cash actually was received in Q2 so it'll be reflected on the balance sheet for the quarter.
It's about $150 million after-tax.
And I think we've been pretty consistent.
It sort of goes into the kitty.
It obviously gives us some increased flexibility.
But it's not like we're going to do an incremental $75 million buyback on the back of the receipt of that cash.
So we'll as I said continue to be active from a buyback standpoint.
The money is already in the bank.
And again as Tim said we're also actively looking at opportunities on the business development side.
And again just a reminder with respect to the product liability...
Inc.</span></strong> That's O-U.S.
cash right? Those cash needs we'll be able to be serviced with our O-U.S.
cash.
Inc.</span></strong> And you also have like half of it you have it's offset by – you can claim against I guess it's now Medtronic or your other partner that you the original manufacturer as well right? Yeah.
As we've said and the Q will be out tomorrow and actually obviously there's been a lot of activity in the quarter vis-à-vis product liability and so there will be a lot of good disclosure for you.
But about half the claims as we've talked about relate to Medtronic and there's been good progress there as well with respect to a settlement.
So I think a lot of frankly productive activity as it relates to the product liability exposure and I think we feel good about where we are now exiting Q2.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay good.
And then just walking through the guidance you know it looks like you're – can you help me understand the key underlying changes within the sales growth rate? It looks like Gore is expected to decline due to FX and then you have the base kind of organic growth rate change which is an improvement from January but then you're raising full year EPS by just $0.05 just kind of the moving parts.
Maybe bridging the EPS reflecting the change in Gore relative to acquisitions and investments.
Yeah sure.
And it's a little unusual because organic growth is higher that constant currency and so that's why we're calling it out.
But so for Q3 organic of 6.5% to 7.5%.
We're saying a negative 50 basis points related to a decline in Gore so constant currency of 6% to 7% and FX impact of 3.5% so again a strong quarter.
And again the difference between Q3 and Q2 is Boston stocking orders in Q2.
For the full year the other impact organic at 5.5% to 6.5%.
You'll also see in Q4 a decline in our sales to Boston Scientific related to the electrophysiology products and that's actually material.
So that's why we've got this difference in for the full year from a constant currency basis to the organic number.
And again currency impacting it negatively by about 3.5%.
So a nice strong improvement in organic.
From a earnings standpoint we've talked about some dilution from the acquisition of $0.02 to $0.03.
And you'll see some stepped up investment in R&amp;D and SG&amp;A relative to what we would have done frankly otherwise given the strength in the top line.
So I think that kind of organic growth commitment for the full year moving earnings higher but still being able to maintain a high level of investment I think strikes the right balance.
David Roman with Goldman Sachs is next.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the questions everybody and good afternoon.
I wanted just to start with the Surgical Specialties business which as a number of others have commented had a very nice tick up here.
And I think in your prepared remarks John you talked about the soft tissue repair franchise seeing its best growth since 2011.
Can you maybe just elaborate on that in a little bit more detail? Are we seeing sort of a bottoming out of utilization in that category? And some of the concerns that had driven those declines in 2011 are behind us? Or is it more new product related? No David I'd say it's all new products related.
We launched Phasix the year before last we've had great momentum building that business and continue to have strong momentum with Phasix.
The uptick of XenMatrix AB.
Having an antibiotic coating in challenged cases in ventral is a big deal and we saw outstanding uptake in XenAB in its first full quarter out there.
And we don't have any reason to believe we're not going to continue to be very successful in converting biological accounts to XenAB for those challenged cases.
So the pipeline is what's driving it.
We're delighted to say that with the two new fixation launches that we have over the new few quarters we expect the momentum that we started both in biologics to continue and build on that with the fixation launches.
Okay.
And then maybe just to follow-up on the M&amp;A topic.
Tim on the last call I'd asked about your view on looking at ROIC/growth versus just cash EPS accretion.
I mean over the past 90 days we've seen obviously continued M&amp;A activity across the landscape and valuations continue to move higher but somewhat more mixed equity market reaction to deals being announced.
Is there any sort of update on your thinking as you see the landscape unfold in front of you and the activity that's taken place over the past couple of months and how you're sort of sizing up your parameters for thinking about M&amp;A at this point? And how does the target environment maybe change as you put it into that context? Yeah no we haven't changed our filters at all relative to the way we look at things.
And I think if you were to go back and look at a lot of the growth or some of the growth in this quarter over the last several years a lot of it are platforms that we've either invested in internally like in the surgical area.
You've got bioabsorbables big investment in that whole biosurgical area both with acquisitions and internally.
And you're starting to see those pay off with increased revenue growth at a very nice margin.
So that's kind of the discipline that we have.
And frankly the external environment of diluting revenue growth for more accretion we watch that.
It hasn't changed our thinking at all in terms of how we look at acquisitions.
And Richard Newitter with Leerink Partners is next.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
It's Ravi here for Rich.
Can you hear me? Yeah we can Ravi.
Thanks.
A couple of questions.
One on the acquisition and then one maybe a longer-term question on the Gore royalty.
So I was hoping you could help me understand a little bit of the dilution around the Vascular Pathways.
Is that going to be disproportionate on your gross margins or SG&amp;A going forward? How should we think about that as we model going forward? And then with Gore I think the royalty comes off in 2019.
And just trying to figure out at this point it's a whiles away but what are you thinking about in terms of how you replace it? Is it mostly new indications related to organic organic growth other segments of the business step up inorganic acquisitions? How should we think about what's going to replace that in the long run? Thank you.
Sure.
First on the acquisition Ravi there's really no material sales at all in 2015.
We'll be looking to really launch it more broadly in 2016.
So I said it's $0.02 to $0.03 dilutive in 2015 and we're obviously covering that while still increasing our guidance for the year.
It will be relatively limited sales and breakeven on a cash EPS standpoint in 2016.
And then it'll become accretive in 2017 and beyond.
As John DeFord said it's a really interesting technology addition to the vascular access product portfolio for us and we think it will be an excellent long-term value creating investment for us.
But.
again I think it's too small at this stage for you to worry too much about and from a near-term standpoint we've covered the dilution.
I think the Gore royalty in 2019 we've talked about for a number of quarters now.
The objective of everything we're doing is frankly by 2019 to make that royalty a smaller and smaller and less significant portion of the P&amp;L.
Obviously this quarter helps in that regard.
We're looking internally and externally to find things that will provide good organic growth and then good drop-through so as we get to 2019 again the portfolio is performing in a way that helps to overcome some of that.
And I think we've been pretty frank about continuing to have a lot of balance sheet flexibility to help mitigate that impact as you jump from 2019 to 2020 through utilizing the balance sheet through increased share repurchase activity.
So we spent a lot of time planning and thinking about it and obviously as we get to 2019 there will be an opportunity for us to give you more visibility.
But we're certainly thinking about it in a way that it will be manageable.
And we'll make sure we do everything we can to mitigate the impact for investors.
David Turkaly with JMP Securities is next.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
This is John (51:00) on for Dave.
Can you hear me okay? Sure John (51:03).
All right.
So first I just wanted to follow up on the question Bob asked earlier on Lutonix.
Granted it's a different ball game now with Boston on board and strong registry data out there but given the stocking orders that have taken place make it a little bit tricky to evaluate what's going on.
I think it might be helpful to get a sense of any trends you're seeing in reorder rates.
Any color you can give us there would be helpful.
Well I would say that consistent with last quarter we're seeing uptick and uptake that has beat all of our internal projections which we're delighted with.
This quarter is no different than last quarter.
We like the momentum that we're building ourselves.
We have great expectations for the momentum Boston will bring to it.
In addition one of the areas that I would not discount is the additional reimbursement that was given to Lutonix during the quarter.
And I think a good way to look at that is that in essence there's full reimbursement now for Lutonix in all of these cases.
And the question would be based on the efficacy that you'll see in all the data sets registry datas et cetera why wouldn't you use Lutonix in a purple case? So I think that the momentum we're building at a field selling standpoint the momentum that the full reimbursement will give us and the fact that our own internal results are beating our expectations we like where we are right now.
Right thanks.
That's helpful.
And then I know a couple people have hit on it already but I just wanted to dig a little bit more into the uses of cash.
So if we look back historically at the M&amp;A there was a period of pretty significant activity from sort of late 2011 to late 2013.
A number of acquisitions divestiture of the EP business and then it kind of dropped off.
During that time across life sciences there was obviously a lot of activity.
There has been an enormous amount in the first half of 2015 and it's great to see the Vascular Pathways deal.
Is that a signal that you're refocusing on that in any way? Or is it just that targets have been harder to find? Sellers' expectations have been too lofty? Maybe if you can just comment on that that would be helpful.
Sure.
I'll take a stab at the broader kind of environment comment.
There's a lot of things that go into looking at deals including our high filters.
There have been some assets that have traded over the last couple of years that frankly we'd taken a look at and passed on.
Other companies have gone forward and acquired those.
They didn't meet our expectations on what our filters are which are focused primarily on being a market leader number one.
And number two product leadership the sustainability of that and the revenue growth profile projected on a sustainable basis.
So it just takes time and we're turning over a lot of rocks and all I can tell you is we haven't changed our strategy or mindset relative to doing those things.
We look at those as adding platforms to do more investment with going forward as to just buying revenue.
So I wouldn't read anything into one deal changing our outlook one way or the other from quarter-to-quarter.
And the only thing I'd add to that is that if we look back at the transactions that we made the decision on we wanted to complete our success rate is very very very high.
And I'd use Lutonix as a good example of that.
The next question is coming from the line of Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to just drill down a little bit more on the emerging market growth.
You did provide some details but I was wondering if this quarter there was more of a step up and sometimes I don't like this analogy.
But what inning of your investment are you in there and how long of a runway do you have? Well the best way I can describe that is we think we're kind of in the second inning.
And I'd say that for this reason 35% of our worldwide sales force is in emerging markets yet it represents only 10% of our revenue today.
We've made the investments and we'll continue to make investments in those geographies but I would say we're very early in the cycle.
And that adds tremendously to the accretive nature of those investments that are already made as it relates to future revenues that come from that.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And one follow-up on Lutonix I guess just given the strength are you willing to give any kind of update in terms of your thoughts on market size or market share or the future applications? Yeah I'll take that.
We're either number one or number two.
Market share data doesn't come out for a while.
We're pleased with momentum and the build of the market.
I think if you a lot of analysts have written that they would look at the size of the U.S.
market being closer to the $140 million to $160 million size on an annualized basis.
It's hard for us to project that but that's probably close to being right I think.
We initially thought it was going to be closer to $100 million.
So all that's indicative of a lot of excitement and uptake in the market for a technology and a product that's very important in terms of being able to treat patients with peripheral artery disease.
Anthony Petrone with Jefferies is next.
Please go ahead.
Great.
I'm going to stay on the topics on emerging markets and Lutonix.
I guess first on emerging markets you mentioned the PICC opportunity is quite large in the various markets that you've invested in.
Can you size what the opportunity is and maybe how long it will take to maybe fully realize that opportunity? Well I think we're going to refrain talking about the size of the opportunity for competitive reasons.
But it's – quite frankly it's solely in our hands in that these markets don't exist for the most part today.
We have to do the market building work the education work and the training work in order to build these markets then to substantial opportunities.
So it's not as if we're just trying to convert out someone else's product.
The reality is we have to go in and create these markets from scratch.
I think we have said it is our largest and fastest growing product in China for example.
And to John's point we're in the early stages we believe of really building that market.
And I think the exciting thing about PICCs is that it's not just an emerging market opportunity.
There's lots of developed geographies where PICCs just have not penetrated the market yet.
Frankly some of the investments we started to make a couple of years ago were focused on those geographies and we're seeing strong double-digit north of 20% growth in PICCs in developed markets as well.
So this has a long way to play out.
And as we've said in our prepared remarks it continues to be the largest global opportunity we believe for us.
Hey James we've crossed the hour here.
Let's just take one more and then we'll end it.
Okay.
The final question is from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks a lot.
Just a quick question on Lutonix we talked to some clinicians that are using drug-coated balloons in cases of all varieties above the knee in-stent restenosis post atherectomy and just wanted to see if you could give us some anecdotal information around types of cases that drug-coated balloons and Lutonix specifically are being used in by your customer base? And then just a follow-up for Chris any update in terms of longer-term tax rate targets? And my understanding is that you expect 0 to 50 basis points of improvement in 2015 and maybe can that continue to trend down with some tax optimization strategies in the out years? Thanks gentlemen.
Yeah Josh this is Tim and then I'll let John DeFord comment on the Lutonix question.
Yeah I think it's just too early for us to really be able to call out any trends of usage of Lutonix in either certain types of patients lesions or if other technologies are used or not.
I think what you're seeing and what you're hearing is what frankly we thought when we bought the technology that this is a huge unmet need and that I think over a number of years this is going to play out relative to all the things that you've pointed out and how well they work either together or independently what kind of lesions et cetera.
And the data will tell us how that plays out but suffice it to say that there's an awful lot of use and interest.
Various clinicians tend to focus in one of those areas more than another and we're seeing those physicians have an interest in trying drug-coated balloon technology together with their techniques or technologies depending on how they look at treating the disease.
So I think it's going to take a number of years for that to play out to be able to cite any trends.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah I think that's right Tim.
Anything that we'd share today would sort of be anecdotes and really probably wouldn't be that helpful.
I think it'll take a little while for some CMS data to come out to see how the technology's being used and if it's being used.
Certainly we would expect that there'd be more use of provisional stenting than what we saw in the LEVANT 2 trial for example.
We saw that in the registry it's sort of the 20%-plus range.
So other than that it's all anecdote at this point just too early.
Yeah Josh just on the tax question we actually have over the last couple of years completed some meaningful projects.
Ironically the onset of the Gore royalty which is taxed at full U.S.
rates sort of hit some of the progress we've made on the tax rate.
We're certainly continuing to evaluate additional opportunities.
They will occur over time and certainly as we move year-to-year we'll provide guidance to reflect that.
There are not – there are no easy large big wins if you will but we'll continue to tackle over time and certainly one of our objectives is to move the tax rate down consistently over time and we'll again on an annual basis continue to give you guidance insight into what kind of progress we're making there.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you very much and I'd like thank all of you for taking the time to join us today as well as thanking Bard's employees around the world for their commitment to excellence and a very good execution quarter.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
Thanks.