Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the C.
R.
Bard Inc.
Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded and will be available for future on-demand replay through the Bard website.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M.
Ring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer along with John H.
Weiland President and Chief Operating Officer.
Christopher S.
Holland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and John A.
DeFord Senior Vice President Science Technology and Clinical Affairs.
Also in attendance today is Todd W.
Garner Vice President Investor Relations.
Today Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's June 30 2015 Form 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors and Bard's 2014 10-K including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
During the call references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com.
All information that is not historical is given only as of October 22 2015 and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information unless otherwise noted.
All comparisons are to the prior year period.
At this time I will turn the call over to Mr.
Timothy Ring.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And I'd like to welcome everyone to Bard's third quarter 2015 earnings call and thank all of you for taking the time to join us today.
We expect the presentation portion of the call to last about 30 minutes and the total call will last about an hour.
The agenda today will be as follows: I'll begin with an overview of the results for the quarter.
John Weiland our President and COO will review third quarter product line revenue.
John DeFord our Senior VP of Science Technology and Clinical Affairs will give you an update on our product development pipeline.
And Chris Holland our Senior VP and CFO will review the third quarter income statement balance sheet as well as our expectations for the fourth quarter.
And then finally we'll close with Q&amp;A.
Third quarter 2015 net sales totaled $865.7 million that's up 4% over Q3 of last year on an as-reported basis and up 8% on a constant currency basis.
The currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter last year was unfavorable about 370 basis points.
Excluding the Gore royalty of $38.4 million and sales related to recent acquisitions and divestitures our organic growth rate was approximately 8.3% for the quarter.
That's above our expectations.
The U.S.
sales of the Lutonix drug-coated balloon contributed a little less than 300 basis points of growth in Q3.
Net loss for the quarter of 2015 was $86 million and diluted loss per share was $1.16.
Excluding these items that affected the comparability of results between periods which Chris will cover later third quarter 2015 net income was $154.5 million and diluted earnings per share which excludes amortization of intangibles were $2.28.
That's up 4% and 6% respectively.
Looking at revenue growth geographically compared to the same quarter last year third quarter net sales in the U.S.
were up 7%.
Internationally we grew 10% on a constant currency basis with Europe growing 7% Japan declining 1% and our other international businesses growing 18% this quarter.
Strong quarter in Europe was driven by endovascular radiology and PICCs and a slight decline in Japan was due to inventory fluctuations at our joint venture.
You may have noticed a few weeks ago we announced the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership of our Japanese joint venture.
We expect this transaction to be completed in the coming weeks.
While it comes with some near-term dilution driven by exchange we believe this is strategically important for us.
Increased investment for market development and clinical trials in Japan was difficult with the structure of the joint venture when you combine that with foreign exchange pressure.
So we decided this was a timely opportunity to take full ownership and advance our product leadership strategy in the world's third largest healthcare market.
Our emerging markets business continues to grow in healthy double-digits following our significant investments there over the last couple of years.
So as we look at our overall results for the quarter and the first nine months of 2015 we said at the beginning of the year that it was an important year of execution for us and so far we're pleased with the results.
As we projected at the announcement of our strategic investment plan nearly three years ago now we are back at the top-end of the sector from a revenue growth perspective and we remain convinced that above market revenue growth is a key to a premium multiple.
We remain focused on making investment scenarios of faster growth in a profitable manner to enhance shareholder value over the long-term.
So with that let me turn you over to John Weiland for a review of our product line revenue.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good afternoon everyone.
Before I start let me point out that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior year period on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
So let's begin with Vascular.
Growth in this category was 13% for the quarter or 8% as reported with total net sales of $250.5 million.
Excluding the Gore royalty and the divested EP sales total Vascular sales grew 16% globally with the United States business up 18% and the international business growing 14% in the quarter.
Sales in our Surgical Graft category were up 4% in Q3.
Excluding the Gore royalty our endovascular business increased 18% in the third quarter.
Within endovascular our biopsy products had another strong quarter with 14% growth with nice performance in the United States and even better performance outside of the United States.
Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 48% driven by global sales of our Lutonix drug-coated balloon.
We're very pleased with the performance of this important product which anniversaried its FDA approval and the U.S.
launch on October 10.
It has been a good first 12 months in the United States and we're pleased with results from our Real-World Registry study.
John DeFord will tell you more about this in a few minutes.
As we seek to expand the indications and reach of this compelling technology platform we expect to see long-term global growth from Lutonix.
Our stent business declined 3% again this quarter consistent with recent experience.
And finally net sales in our Vena Cava Filter line declined 3% in Q3.
So let's go to Urology.
Total net sales were $212.3 million up 5% versus Q3 of last year on a constant currency basis and 1% on an as reported basis.
The United States business grew 5% while internationally we grew 4%.
Our Targeted Temperature Management products grew in the healthy double-digits again this quarter.
Our basic drainage business was up 6% globally in Q3 with the United States business up 7%.
Our I.C.
Foley business was up 3% globally and up 1% in the United States.
We believe that Foley's this quarter benefited from some dealer stocking but we don't know the precise impact.
So we've been cautioned against reading too much into these improved growth rates in a single quarter.
Our continence business decreased 3% in the third quarter.
Sales in urological specialties grew 1% with our Brachytherapy business down 1%.
And finally in this category standalone sales of our StatLock Catheter Stabilization product line declined 4% in Q3.
Now let's go to Oncology.
Total net sales in this category were $239.3 million an increase of 8% on a constant currency basis and 4% on an as-reported basis over the third quarter last year.
Geographically net sales in the United States were up 5% and international sales were up 15%.
Our Port business decreased 1% this quarter due to the price reductions in the United States that we talked about at the beginning of the year.
Our PICC revenue was up 13% in the third quarter including strong results in the United States Europe and emerging markets again this quarter.
We're very pleased with the clinical adoption of our advanced technology which helps patients and can save time and cost for the hospital.
Despite the competitive noise on single features here and there we believe that the quality and performance of our broad product offering is why we continue to grow faster than the market.
And as the competition tries to catch-up to our older products we continue to advance the technology and solve unmet needs for our customers and our patients.
John DeFord will tell you more about this.
Our Vascular Access Ultrasound product line was up 1% this quarter.
The growth rates for this system can be a little lumpy around new product launches and that's what we're seeing due to the Vision II launch in the prior year and the pending Site-Rite 8 launch later this year.
And to complete Oncology our Dialysis Access product line was up 12% over Q3 of last year.
So let's conclude with our Surgical Specialties business.
Total net sales in this category were $139.8 million up 6% on a constant currency basis and up 3% as reported.
United States sales were up 6% and international sales grew 4% this quarter.
Two years after the acquisition of the Arista hemostat and three years after the acquisition of the Progel Sealant technology our combined biosurgical product portfolio continues to grow double-digits.
Our soft tissue repair business grew 7% in Q3 with our synthetic ventral hernia repair products growing 6%.
While our natural tissue products grew 14% driven by our new XenMatrix AB coated porcine mesh.
Our Hernia Fixation business grew 2% this quarter which was the first quarter in positive territory since the second quarter of 2011.
We are hopeful that our new product launches here can reverse the trend of declines in recent years.
In closing out the Surgical category our Performance Irrigation business was down 20% in Q3 as we told you we discontinued some products earlier in the year.
This concludes our product line revenue discussion.
And now I'll now turn you over to John DeFord.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</strong> Thanks John and good afternoon or maybe it's evening for everyone.
Thanks for taking time to join us today.
For the sake of time I'll jump right into some highlights starting with drug-coated balloons.
About two weeks ago at TCT we released full 12-month results from our almost 700-patient global SFA and popliteal registry.
Lesion lengths were over 100 millimeters about half the patients had significant calcification and over 30% of the lesions treated were chronic total occlusions.
The study found over 94% of patients were free from TLR through the 12-month follow-up with primary patency in almost 90% of patients.
Interim 24-month results demonstrated 93% freedom from TLR and primary patency in excess of 80%.
We believe the learnings from the LEVANT 2 study on keys to a successful procedure are working their way into real-world practice and we're very pleased with the results.
In our below-the-knee IDE enrollment continues though recruitment remains slower than planned due to the complex nature of these patients and their disease.
We're working with FDA to find ways to speed up enrollment and analysis in this important study.
At current recruitment rates we will likely continue to enroll patients through much of 2016 putting PMA submission in the second half of 2017.
On the other hand our AV Access DCB IDE study that began enrollment last quarter is recruiting very quickly and we anticipate enrollment could be complete as early as Q1 of 2016 which could put PMA submission ahead of schedule in the first half of 2017.
The In-Stent Restenosis IDE study is ongoing and we're currently planning a second half 2016 PMA submission seeking this expanded indication.
We have a host of other DCB studies ongoing or in startup around the world and we plan to begin enrollment in our LEVANT China study in Q1 of 2016.
Also in Vascular the LiFeStream Balloon Expandable Covered Stent IDE completed enrollment in Q3.
This clinical study is evaluating the technology for the treatment of iliac artery disease with a nine-month follow-up.
We anticipate PMA submission in the second half of 2016.
Our Covera (16:26) next-generation stent graft designed for use in the AV Access circuit is planned for launch in Europe this quarter and we're working with FDA to commence our U.S.
IDE study in the first half of 2016.
Our new Venovo (16:42) venous stent recently gained the CE Mark as with Covera (16:45) we're working closely with FDA to initiate an IDE study seeking U.S.
approval with enrollment plan to begin in the first half of next year.
Next moving to Urology and Home Care we're pleased to announce the release of the new MAGIC 3 GO self-lubricated catheter for female patients.
This product's designed for enhanced comfort and ease-of-use for patients that often have limited dexterity.
We plan to roll-out this product selectively during Q4 as we ramp manufacturing.
We also anticipate the launch of our MAGIC 3 TOUCHLESS catheter in early 2016.
Both of these products employ our latest silicone technology designed to enhance patient use and comfort.
We've got some other impactful products in this portfolio for launch later in 2016 but I'll hold off sharing the details until we get closer to those launches.
Now moving to Oncology the new Site-Rite 8 Ultrasound system with integrated 3CG diamond is rolling out in Europe.
The Site-Rite 8 with Pinpoint GT and 3CG diamond is on track for U.S.
launch in Q4 as John alluded to you.
We believe the combination of Ultrasound Needle Guidance and Catheter Tip Confirmation in an integrated system will provide a full-featured user-friendly and intuitive solution for vascular catheter placement.
In PICCs we've submitted the 510(k) and await FDA clearance to launch a new and proprietary catheter family.
These PICCs have been designed to resist common chemicals used in chemotherapy solutions as well as cleaning and disinfection agents.
While these solutions are known to degrade standard PICC materials this new catheter can maintain the same high performance standards available in our current PICCs even after long-term exposure.
We're also expanding our development efforts toward technologies we believe can further reduce the risk of thrombosis.
While we prefer to keep our development plans confidential I will say we have a new product family under development that's based on a new high-performance material.
We expect to begin launching products using this new material in the back half of next year.
Our current plans also anticipate commencement of studies to provide further clinical evidence to support the benefits of these new designs.
In concert with these efforts we've also recently launched a training program and some associated products designed to reduce infections and promote the safe and effective use of our PICCs.
With this change in near-term focus we've reduced the priority we placed on our antimicrobial and thrombo-resistant coating technologies.
The developments are ongoing but we don't believe they'll have a major revenue contribution compared to these other opportunities.
For the difficult stick IV catheter patients we announced on the last call the acquisition of the AccuCath guidewire-assisted PIV products.
We've taken that technology into our development engine and anticipate the launch of an improved family of AccuCath products in the first half of 2016.
These products are anticipated to launch alongside our new Midline Catheter the PowerGlide Pro also planned for launch in that same time period.
We believe the combination of our PICCs the PowerGlide Midline family and AccuCath IV product line will help us bring important guidewire-assisted devices to a broad spectrum of patients with Vascular Access needs.
Lastly for the acute hemodialysis patient we're expanding our family of catheters with the expected launch of a new dual lumen power Xenesis (20:17) catheter in Q1 of next year.
Xenesis (20:23) is designed for superior flexibility in kink resistance along with flow rates in excess of 400 mls per minute in a small 11-French catheter configuration.
I'll close my portion of the discussion today with Surgery.
Just a few weeks ago we launched our new Phasix ST Resorbable Synthetic Mesh.
This launch adds another differentiated product to our complex abdominal wall portfolio that includes XenMatrix XenMatrix AB and the Phasix Mesh technology.
We're continuing our efforts to expand our product offerings based on the Phasix platform and we expect to begin launching those new products over the next several quarters.
We're also making good progress on our development of additional sizes of our one-of-a-kind antibiotic coated XenMatrix AB Family with launches expected throughout 2016 and into 2017.
In our BioSurgery product offering on our last call I told you we filed our PMA supplement seeking approval of our new TRIDYNE Vascular Sealant and we continue to anticipate approval and launch in the back-half of next year.
And finally in mesh fixation we recently launched both the OptiFix spring-loaded resorbable tack device and the CapSure permanent fixation product.
We're working to build upon that momentum through the launch of two additional fixation devices but due to the competitiveness nature of this market I'll hold back the details for later call.
Thanks for your time and attention tonight.
Let me now hand you over to Chris.
Thank you John.
Let's start with the items that affect the comparability of our results between periods.
In Q3 we had acquisition-related items of $2.5 million and a $14.6 million charge for restructuring and productivity initiatives.
This quarter we have made significant additional progress in settlement activity related to our women's health product liability driven by this settlement progress and additional information learned from it as well as recent activity in other product liability matters we took an additional combined charge of $241.1 million this quarter.
The P&amp;L impact for these items is detailed in the notes to the financial statements and the reconciliation accompanying our Q3 earnings press release.
Now let's go through the statement of income for the quarter.
Gross profit was $529.4 million or 61.2% of sales for Q3.
On an adjusted basis gross profit was $530.3 million or 61.3% of sales a little better than we projected and down 120 basis points from the prior year.
New amortization of intangibles relating to transactions closed in the last 12 months was about 50 basis points this quarter and foreign exchange drove approximately 30 basis points of headwind for us in Q3.
Price was unfavorable by 90 basis points on the revenue line and approximately 30 basis points in gross profit and our mix was favorable by about 40 basis points this quarter.
As we forecasted last quarter the manufacturing variances in our plans from year-to-year can be a little lumpy and Q3 is an example of that.
In Q2 cost savings drove 90 basis points of improvement but in Q3 it was 50 basis points negative.
In Q4 we look for Q4 to look more like Q2 with strong favorability.
So we expect gross profit in Q4 on an adjusted basis to be a meaningful improvement over Q3 and back to the Q4 2014 level or maybe even a little bit better which will put us near the high-end of the original guidance we gave you for gross margins for the full year.
So it's been a year of solid organic improvement for us on the gross margin line.
SG&amp;A expenses were $247.1 million for the quarter or 28.5% of sales.
On an adjusted basis SG&amp;A was also 28.5% of sales down 60 basis points from Q3 of last year.
I'll remind you that we typically see an uptick in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in Q4 sequentially but we expect to still see good leverage compared to the prior year and expect to be within our full year guidance for 2015.
R&amp;D expenditures totaled $65.2 million or 7.5% of sales on a reported basis for the third quarter which was the same on an adjusted basis down 40 basis points from the prior year and right on our full year guidance.
We feel good about the level of investment in innovation and continue to drive an active new product pipeline towards faster revenue growth opportunities as you can probably tell from John DeFord's update.
Interest expense was $11.2 million for the third quarter no change from the prior year.
Other income and expense was $258.3 million of expense for the third quarter as reported and $1.8 million of expense on an adjusted basis.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 24.9% which is the same for the nine months year-to-date where we are down 50 basis points compared to the prior year consistent with our original guidance.
We do expect the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit before the end of the year which would lower the rate in Q4.
Diluted shares on adjusted earnings for the period were 75.4 million and we repurchased 767 000 shares during the third quarter.
The net result is adjusted cash EPS for Q3 of $2.28 above the guidance range we provided for the quarter driven by the higher sales.
The balance sheet as of September 30 reflects cash restricted cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion no change from June 30.
For the quarter accounts receivables days were down 1.6 days and inventory days were down three days.
Capital expenditures totaled $21.7 million for the quarter.
On the liabilities side total debt was $1.4 billion as of September 30 no change from June 30.
Debt-to-total cap at the end of the third quarter was about 49% and total shareholder investment was $1.5 billion at September 30.
Now moving to financial guidance.
At the beginning of this year we guided organic revenue growth to be between 4% and 5% for the full year and we're now expecting to be closer to 6.5%.
That includes lapping the anniversary of the U.S.
launch of Lutonix in Q4 of 2014 which included significant initial stocking orders.
Excluding those initial stocking orders from last year which we estimate represent about 1% of sales to the quarter we project Q4 organic sales growth between 5% and 6% with about 300 basis points of headwind from FX and an additional 200 basis points of headwind from other sales reductions on a reported basis.
The biggest of these reductions relates to the pending acquisition of the Japanese joint venture which would add about $40 million to operating revenue on an annual basis.
However the joint venture is holding inventory we have already recorded as sales to them.
So we expect to have a negative impact to reported revenue in Q4 and Q1 until we work through that inventory.
We also as we've discussed in prior calls expect the sales of EP products to Boston Scientific to decline in Q4 as they've now started manufacturing some of those product lines themselves.
So we are projecting reported revenue to be flat to down 1% in Q4 even though the organic momentum in the business is expected to remain quite strong.
Now to update our expectations for adjusted cash EPS.
Following our announcement of the acquisition of our Japanese JV our latest forecast was $8.95 to $9.05 for the full year.
Today we are raising that guidance to be between $9.03 and $9.07.
At the midpoint this also represents a $0.05 increase to our original full year guidance provided in January despite absorbing approximately $0.15 of expected combined dilution from acquisitions and worsening FX during the year.
Specific to Q4 this means we expect adjusted cash EPS to be between $2.38 and $2.42 which includes about $0.06 from the renewal of the R&amp;D tax credit.
This performance speaks to the strength of our execution in 2015.
We've been able to increase investments in the business with the objective of sustaining above market revenue growth while absorbing dilution along the way and yet we still expect to increase the EPS delivered on the bottom line in 2015 above our initial expectations.
Thank you for your attention.
I'll now turn you back to Tim.
Thanks Chris.
That does conclude the formal part of the presentation.
I'll now hand the call out to the moderator to facilitate the Q&amp;A session.
Due to the number of investors on the call I'd ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session And again as Mr.
Ring said due to the large number of investors expected on the call please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up only.
If you have additional questions you may re-enter the queue.
At this time we go to our first question that will come from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah we do Bob.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Great.
Good afternoon.
So two things one for Chris and one for Tim.
First Chris I was just wondering if you could go over some of the thoughts on Q4 especially as it relate to the EP business in Japan.
So that 5% to 6% revenue growth does that excludes those two things and can you just go into a little more detail on how those two things impact the guidance you've given on top line and bottom line? Sure.
So what we're saying for Q4 organic excluding the stocking impact from last year's Q4 is 5% to 6%.
So about a point from Lutonix stocking last year gets you to 4% to 5% organic.
There's then about 2% that relates specifically to the decline in Boston sales expected in the quarter and the impact of lower sales into Japan a result of us expecting to close the acquisition in a couple of weeks here.
So the combination of those and a flat Gore royalty reduced sales by 2%.
So you get the constant currency if you will Bob of 2% to 3% for the quarter.
And then the FX impact as we said is going to reduce sales by 3%.
So that then gets us to the negative 1% to zero on a reported basis.
All right.
I'm sure there'll be some follow-up on that.
But I wanted to ask one of Tim for my second question.
So Tim could you give us your sense as to the broader utilization environment that you saw in the quarter? And if you wouldn't mind breaking it out by the U.S.
and then separately emerging markets? And I ask it that way because it looks like you guys are seeing really good growth in emerging markets some of the orthopedic players like J&amp;J and Stryker have reported a slowdown in implant rates in Brazil and China and just wanted to get your – again your broader comments on utilization broken down U.S.
and emerging markets.
Yeah.
Again Bob I hesitate to call trends out of a quarter-to-quarter kind of a swing just because there's so much uncertainty going on all the time.
But I would have to say that our utilization was pretty strong our volume was strong everywhere.
There wasn't any weakness other than kind of the one we've cited in Japan geographically and emerging markets remains very strong for us.
We watch and hear and read what everybody else reports and we keep looking for that both in the projections we get in from the businesses and our actuals that we just haven't seen it.
So I would say similar to what we saw last quarter overall.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question in queue will come from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Chris I think I need your help.
I'm still struggling a little bit with the fourth quarter guidance as well.
So first part of it is so why – as I understand Lutonix had stocking in the fourth quarter of last year but Lutonix revenues should year-over-year be up why are you describing there's a 100 basis points headwind? And then second just want to make sure I understand the impact both top line and on the gross margin of the Japanese joint venture buy-in in the fourth quarter that almost 200 basis-point reduction you're saying is coming from Japan.
Was there stocking of products into Japan over the last couple quarters that would have benefited those quarters relative to kind of underlying trends? Thanks.
Sure Mike.
I think when we talk about Lutonix and we talked about Q2 and Q3 with sales to Boston right? As Boston stepped up sales and we talked about stocking in Q2 with Boston we think we've actually seen some stocking in Q3 as well.
We actually launched a couple of additional lengths in the quarter as well.
So I think certainly as we look at Q4 as it relates to Boston's order pattern we would certainly expect to see a sequential decline as they begin to now work through that initial inventory.
So that's certainly impacting the overall growth rate for Lutonix as we look at Q4.
We're seeing continued very strong organic growth in Lutonix relative to last Q4 though we had a large stocking order in our own business right? And so that's – it's that lapping event as well as the sequential sales into Boston that are just driving some of the sequential moves for Lutonix.
The challenge...
So how are you coming up with that 100 basis points just so we can understand what that is? Yeah that's our – as we evaluated last year's Q4 sales of Lutonix that's our estimate of what the stocking component of those sales were.
Okay.
So you're basically taking out the stocking but you're not giving yourselves credit for the underlying sales? Yeah we've not projected a number for Lutonix for Q4 in the analysis that Chris gave.
Okay.
Okay.
But you're not giving – you're giving yourself the penalty but not the benefit.
Yeah but I think the other sequential impact is sales – our expected sales into Boston.
Understood.
Understood.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
And then just the Japan piece Chris.
Yeah the impact there and it's about $11 million Mike.
And the way – so last year we would in the ordinary course be selling product into the JV as they are obviously then selling out.
They maintain levels of inventory that are similar to us and similar to the sector.
The sales that we make to them once we close the transaction we will not record until they're sold out the door.
And so they're sitting on inventory today we haven't closed the transaction.
We've already recorded sales for – as they then sell those products out the door in November and December we can't record the sale again.
In the ordinary course we'll continue to ship product to them which is what we did last year but there is a delay now as that inventory needs to get sold once we have full ownership of the JV...
And my question Chris is that before distributors usually bought they have an incentive to stock up on extra product and I'm just making sure that the Japanese distributor wasn't buying in excess product to have as much on their shelves before the conversion? No to be very clear nothing about their order patterns last year and their order patterns this year are different at all.
So it's purely the mechanism that once we have ownership right we just have to wait for the inventory to clear before we record additional sales.
Got it.
Very clear.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question in queue will come from Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
One more just on that last topic.
Chris you said $11 million impact from Japan in Q4 you said there is going to be a little bit into Q1 what is the impact in Q1? Yeah it's about the same impact.
Okay.
And then the last part of that is just some declines in EP sales to Boston Scientific.
Is that a surprise that that's dropping off or was that part of the forecast and again could you quantify that? Yeah.
Sure.
And actually if you go back to each quarter we've actually talked about it both coming into the year and every quarter because actually what they did prior to this quarter we actually were seeing growth in sales to them as they were actually building inventory in anticipation of the shift to self manufacturing.
We've taken those sales out of organic growth obviously the entire year.
And so we talked about Q4 being the first big quarter where we'd see step-down because they now have actually stood up the manufacturing plant in Costa Rica.
So that impact in the quarter is round numbers about $5 million.
So between that and Japan you're talking about $16 million $17 million of negative impact as it compares to prior year.
Okay.
And then I guess one big picture for me guys it looks like now you're going to have the Gore royalty through 2019 based on I guess the decision not to hear the case.
You've executed well against the investment plan you laid out.
I believe the only thing you haven't done is a big acquisition.
So I guess two-part question for Tim; how are you thinking about mitigating that the fall-off in the Gore royalty and can you just update us on what you're seeing out in the market and are you starting to get more aggressive given some of the declines in multiples we're seeing? Thanks.
Sure.
I think it's a little early to comment specifically on 2019 right now.
I can tell you though that clearly it's very visible in front of us it's clearly a noble event for us.
And we're obviously planning or what will become over time obvious that we've been planning and anticipating that.
So that's the comment generally about the Gore royalties.
Relative to our business development activity we remain extremely active going through a number of things in our what we call funnel if you will and I remain optimistic that that landscape continues to look robust for us.
And as we go ahead and close things we'll announce them when they occur.
Thank you.
Mr.
West does that answer your question? Yes.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And we'll go to the next question in queue that will come from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good evening everybody.
I wanted to actually come back to Lutonix and go into utilization in a little bit more detail.
Could you maybe talk to us about how you're seeing this being used in a real-world setting because our understanding and feedback from TCT is that that this is a technology that's getting used in a broad number of cases and it's not so much proving to be a replacement for things like stent therapy or atherectomy it's being more used as an adjunct.
Can you maybe give us your perspective on that and how you're seeing the adoption curve roll-out? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah John DeFord here.
Let me talk a little bit about the utilization.
I think what you heard at TCT is fairly consistent.
We're beginning to see drug-coated balloons used as sort of an initial therapy not necessarily the destination therapy but an initial therapy and then depending on the outcome of that initial therapy making other decisions.
Now obviously atherectomy or things like that might come into play prior to using any kind of other technology.
But by and enlarge we're seeing drug-coated balloons be used first.
And then as you would expect if there is provisional stenting required then stents are used.
If there are other technologies or other pieces needed then they get included.
So I don't think we ever expected DCB to replace some of these other technologies but we are seeing that move exactly as we expected to be the first line of therapy.
We think there is still a long way to go as far as grow with and penetration.
It's still early days but that's what we're seeing.
I think that's fairly consistent with what you've heard.
Okay.
And then maybe just sort of a broader question as you think about the growth rate.
2015 has obviously proven to be a very strong period of organic growth for the company.
And I think when you laid out the investment plan earlier about in early 2013 this is the year you were envisioning growing above market growth.
So maybe you can talk to us a little bit about where we are in the realization of the benefits in that investment plan and to what extent you think the trends you've seen over the past nine months and what you're guiding for the full year are sustainable? Yeah.
We haven't given guidance nor will be on this call for 2016.
I think if you go back and look at what we said in 2013 is we expected to be above-market revenue growth occurring about this point in time and that our expectation both with not only the investments that we made then but with the investments ongoing is that that would be sustainable.
So that's what we said a few years ago and that's kind of what the plan was and we'll give you guidance for 2016 in January.
Okay.
And maybe just again what are the different ways.
So if you think about the momentum in the business that you're seeing today is there any part of it you'd ascribe to macro-related factors I know this came up earlier in the call versus Bard-related factors? You know that in any given quarter and obviously I said earlier we watch and listen everybody it's very difficult for any company I don't care how big you are to know if you gain share or lost share the markets increased for say flat or decline from quarter-to-quarter.
I wouldn't say virtually impossible to know that that over that short period of time.
So we said in the past it kind of felt like things were getting a little bit better.
I think that some of the old metrics we used to use like hospital admissions especially when you're involved in procedures maybe aren't the bellwether science necessarily that they were a few years ago so some of the dynamics as you know in healthcare utilization generally are changing.
So it's kind of difficult to say when you look at how full mission metrics maybe going down and yet how revenue continues to grow up what does all that mean? Just very difficult to say.
We said earlier at the last call it feels a little bit better.
I would say that still holds true for this quarter just hard to put any fine points on it.
I think the only think I'd add David obviously we track the sector and when we look at organic growth rates across the sector actually over the last four quarters or five quarters they're frankly pretty flat relative sequentially and obviously we've moved higher over that period of time.
So at least the things that are growing for us in both emerging markets and in the product portfolio and Lutonix being part of that are related to things that we've invested in over the last couple of years.
And so we haven't seen material moves to Tim's point in volumes or utilization and as we look at the sector it certainly would appear to be that improvement in organic growth that we've experienced is directly related to the investments that we made.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Chris just a quick follow-up on the Japanese distributor.
So the EPS dilution that you had previously described obviously it appears like it's dropping through and full in the fourth quarter.
Should we expect the same to hold true in 2016 the full $0.20 drops straight through or should we expect it to offset in some way? Yeah I think certainly it's a $0.20 hole right and it's purely related to the yen just to be clear.
So it's a hole and obviously we haven't given guidance David for 2016 but because of the transaction we're facing a much more significant yen headwind than we would've been otherwise.
So obviously as we roll up our budget and decide we're ready to commit to for 2016 we are starting with a big yen headwind that we wouldn't have had.
Now having said that it's a very interesting strategic move for us and we believe it will pay nice dividend long-term for the company but it's a headwind that we'll deal with as we go in 2016.
Okay.
And this is a follow-up maybe quickly for Chris.
Can you give us a sense of what that accretion or return looks like in 2017 and beyond? And then I guess just for John DeFord as it relates to Lutonix I guess if you give us a sense for in the field what do you think is resonating with clinicians more the trial data or the registry data and I guess more directly what I'm trying to get at is would you expect any impact on your business based on the impact one results post-TCT? Thank you.
Yeah.
I won't be specific David but assuming the yen stays roughly where it is and we execute which includes some interesting product launches for us into Japan including LifeStent and Lutonix over time here.
The business for us will turn nicely accretive beginning in 2017 and beyond but I'm not going to put a fine point on it for you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Okay.
And then just jumping in to talk about the data we think that clinicians are really interested in looking at both pivotal and randomized studies and registries.
I think the LEVANT 2 study as published in New England Journal of Medicine and it was a very unique study design.
Also we've also found in that study that procedure really matters and that was something that came out at panel came out in some of the post discussions that the way the device was used compared to PTA was different and actually in our study the drug-coated balloon was used what you call had a less effective treatment at the end of the procedure compared to PTA.
Again I think that is attributed to some of the results that we see in our randomized study.
Certainly I understand our competitor wanting to try to shift the discussion back to theirs it's kind of interesting they haven't updated their registry data yet but our registry data real world is in much more difficult patients than we saw in LEVANT 2.
We think it's really demonstrating the real world usage of the technology.
And of course those clinicians were educated on the things that we've learned in the LEVANT 2 on the importance of fully inflating the balloons getting good expansion appropriate access to the vessel and the lesion quickly and other things that were discussed by Dr.
Schmidt at TCT.
And so we think that these results are pretty indicative of real world usage based on that new knowledge.
Now what clinicians are going to do so far I think it's resonated pretty well that drug-coated balloons work and at least the two technologies on the market today seem to work pretty similarly.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Are we ready for the next question? That will come...
We are.
Thanks.
It will come from David Turkaly with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Do you guys give the percentage that emerging markets was in the quarter? It's about 9.5% of total sales David.
It's up about a 120 basis points year-over-year very strong double-digit growth and obviously continuing to move in the right direction overall.
There is some seasonality to the different geographies but we had another great quarter.
And again it's actually across all of the geographies just like we saw in Q2.
Great.
And obviously everyone is aware that you've hired a bunch of folks there.
I was just curious as you look at their productivity what all that look likes versus some of your U.S.
or European reps over time and then how long do you think it takes some of these guys to get fully ramping up to speed? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would say that we're delighted with the ground game of our team in emerging markets.
We've been very aggressive in terms of adding that to field sales force around the world.
And as we've talked continually that sales force represents about 34% of our reps around the world.
It's the fastest area of investments for us in field sales reps yet it only equals a little bit less than 10% of our sales.
So we think we've made the right investments for the long-term.
We like the uptick that our people are giving us in the field but as they get seasoned it takes on average nine months to 12 months for a person to really be productive no matter what geography that you're working in and I would say that we're delighted with the execution in the ground game that our team is putting on not only in emerging markets but around the world.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Thank you.
The next question in queue that will come from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Hi Kristen.
Hi Kristen.
Inc.</span></strong> Good night.
I don't know where John DeFord is.
But I guess good afternoon to you.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> It seems dark here I don't know where you are? Inc.</span></strong> Anyway I was just wondering if you could explain a little bit more I think you had mentioned there was dealer stocking with Foley catheters because that seem to be up quite a lot.
I don't remember when they could – basic drainage has been up actually like 6% and 7% in the U.S.
So how big of a stocking was there in the quarter and will that just pull like as from the fourth quarter or is that – where does that shift from? Yeah.
I think and frankly Kristen we don't know for sure as we get additional tracing data.
We're speculating there was some in the quarter.
And so we just wanted to caution you against it.
It could possibly pull a bit from Q4 and that's certainly factored into our overall sales guidance.
So I don't want to make too much of it and we can't say for certain yet we'll know more in the coming weeks as we get additional tracing data.
I'd say in the grand scheme of things it's a really small point for us.
Yeah.
Across the board.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And then I guess just in general just in terms of I guess going back just to the M&amp;A side.
Tim is there anything in terms of the landscape that you're seeing that makes you more or less likely to go off into any additional areas whether it'd preference to do more smaller tuck-in deals for a product portfolio in the U.S.
or are you seeing or thinking about doing more deals that might give you greater exposure into international markets at this point or do you feel comfortable with the investments that you made in emerging markets that you have the right investments there and you're capable of growth given just the investments that you have already? Yeah.
Well in terms of our lenses and our filters the answer is yes to all the above we're looking at everything.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So relative to the landscape we kind of like what we see in terms of what's out there.
Our filters or our hurdles have not changed relative to our priorities.
We don't start with size as one of the first questions.
In fact probably it's a couple of reviews through a read before I even start to focus on that.
We're focused more on strategic intent.
Some of the examples of things we've done over the last couple of years our Targeted Temperature Management is one ratchets or (55:49) whatever.
We're focused on revenue growth because we think revenue growth provides a better shareholder return than a slower revenue growth than grinding on (55:58) on earnings.
So we look at revenue growth upside sustainability of that.
We actually look at each investment as is it a platform to invest further in whether that'd be both with technology.
And clearly at least given the size of the transactions we've done they've had limited capabilities outside the United States just from an expense of affordability standpoint and we already have that footprint.
So we look at all of those things but I'm optimistic about what the landscape looks like and we'll see how many of those actually clear our filters but we haven't changed our standards at all in the last several years.
Yeah.
I'd add that Kristen obviously we're focused on finding good targets internationally as well that fit all the same criteria.
And frankly within emerging markets we've continued to struggle to find good targets that meet the criteria that we have.
And so obviously we now have a really nice track record of executing organic growth-driven strategies in a lot of those markets and so we'll continue to do that while we still look.
But we're looking to Tim's point really around the world for opportunities that are first and foremost product leadership opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> And the buying in of the JV over in Japan was that just because of the pressure of selling in dollars and the JV just taking a hit with currency or...
Well you know so...
Inc.</span></strong> ...just benefits of going direct? Yeah.
Let me – maybe a little background history here just for those of you that may not know this.
So if you go back into the 1990s we actually had a Bard Japan Limited business and Medicon the joint venture with Kobayashi that was primarily responsible for our urology product line.
In 1998 we sold off the Cardiology business as part of that transaction because of tax deals.
That entity in Japan went with that transaction.
So we had to make a decision back then do we put the rest of Bard's products into the joint venture or do we start our own business there.
Back then we made the decision we had a lot of confidence and faith in Medicon and obviously the fact that we just bought out the other half we have even more so now moved the entire product line into that JV.
Given the structure of the JV as we've invested more heavily internally in R&amp;D new product launches which require also clinical trials it just put pressure on the business model in Japan.
And strategically it made all the sense in the world for us to own the thing in its entirety so that we can make all the investment decisions we need to make to grow the business over the long-term.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
Okay.
And last one just because every other healthcare company's coming out today do you have an ownership stake in any pharmacy company? I'm just curious...
We do not.
Inc.</span></strong> Sorry.
I couldn't resist.
It's probably not funny for a lot of people who have dealt with a lot of facts today but...
Yeah.
Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> Anyway have a good night.
You too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Neil Chatterji with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
This is Neil on for Josh Jennings.
Thanks for taking the question.
So you've highlighted in the past Targeted Temperature Management and BioSurgery as segments with significant market opportunity expansion and those have seen double-digit growth.
Can you give us some more color on how those lines are tracking relative to that and when you might see some significant ramp? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've been seeing a significant ramp in those product lines since day one of the acquisitions.
We've been taking share annually in both of those major product lines that we acquired.
We've really build-out a very successful independent sales force pretty large by U.S.
standards in that business and I think they're executing extremely well.
So we have been growing substantially in that space.
We expect we will continue to and we're always looking for opportunities to be adjunctive to those product lines.
The only thing I would add Neil is that both of those opportunities play-out over a number of years because there is a number of additional indications that our technologies are going to be effective with both on the Targeted Temperature Management side as well as within BioSurgery.
So to Tim's point about having acquired platforms that have an investment opportunity beyond the initial product set that we acquired we've got a long runway we think in both of those categories to grow them for many years.
And again both of them are growing nicely in the double-digits as we sit here today.
Okay.
And just one quick follow-up.
So I believe you saw some softness in Europe earlier in the year but then volume seemed to recover the second quarter and then even more so in the third quarter here.
How are the reimbursement issues shaking out in Europe particularly in France? Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me deal with the macro issue first I think that's the important one.
And that is that we did have a slow first quarter and I think as we predicted we thought the year would pick up and it certainly has.
Our team over there is executing extremely well.
There is nothing from a major pricing standpoint going on in our business in Europe and in fact our Europe was team was positive in price for the quarter.
So we don't see a big issue right now and looming in front of us in terms of reimbursement in France.
The only other thing I would add because I know there were some comments made perhaps by others in the market regarding specifically reimbursement for drug-coated balloons in Europe.
And I would just tell you that is a category reimbursement not kind of an individual brand reimbursement.
We're working very hard to expand that as well throughout Europe.
So...
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Yeah and that's where The New England Journal of Medicine publication frankly helps having that kind of publication is required in certain geographies to help achieve reimbursement.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Neil.
Hey Tony we have crossed the top of the hour.
We're going to take two more questions and I apologize to anyone in the queue after that.
And so we'll take the next question then from Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just had a follow-up on some of the Lutonix commentary.
I guess I just wanted to ask maybe in a more straightforward way if you could just talk about the underlying trends and what you're seeing there is sequentially versus the stocking there were a few stocking comments? And then conceptually the partnership with Boston Scientific has been interesting curious to know if you look out longer term do you think that they're going to be selling a meaningful chunk of your overall Lutonix sales if you could give us any sense of what the split would be there? And then is there any opportunity to expand that partnership into other product areas? Yeah.
So I think Matt just the sequential kind of Q2 Q3 Q4 and the first thing I'd say is we need as we've said it will be nice to have this all settle out but it's going to take a few quarters for this to settle out.
So Boston ramped up in Q2 certainly had some stocking in Q2.
As I said we launched a couple of additional sizes in Q3 which drove we think some additional stocking in Q3.
And so certainly we would expect a sequential decline in Q4 for Boston as they begin to work through that initial stocking inventory.
So when you then adjust for our stocking order last year in Q4 we're seeing really terrific both sequential and year-over-year growth in our base organic Lutonix business.
And feel really good about our competitive position and John DeFord talked about the Real-World registry data which is frankly outstanding.
So we need to get through these couple of quarters here and get to a steady-state next year where Boston's been in the business now with us for a while and we've then moved beyond our initial launch in the U.S.
I would say to the longer time issue on Boston we think the strategy was sound that we entered into.
Your question was what kind of a position will they have with Lutonix? I mean as we set out on this Boston had the right to sell the product in a small subset of customers based on where they had good relationships or position in a certain therapy that we're not involved in.
We have no plans to expand that to other product lines today or circumstances.
I think this was a unique opportunity for us to be complementary with Boston and a small segment of customers and I think that we like that positioning.
But Bard will be responsible for the greatest majority of sales and the greatest majority of customers obviously around the world.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one follow up on Lutonix I guess.
Broadly just from the good data both out of your registry and the Medtronic data from TCT do you expect that or any other clinical or I guess market expansion catalyst to change the growth rate in the near-term of the market or you think we're just kind of going to see continued good growth? Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well I'll jump in here.
I think we expect continued good growth but we also think that additional indications are really important.
So we talked about the studies the AV Access study below-the-knee In-Stent Restenosis other indications we think are additional catalysts for growth.
So we're strictly and specifically focused on those areas and we'll continue to be so.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks for the color.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Anthony Petrone with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
One on Lutonix just wondering if you can provide an update on utilization per case how many balloons are actually used per case? And then one is a broader question; Community Health reported lower revenue per admission today and that was from lower negotiated rates from Medicare.
And then in addition we are seeing consolidation of private managed care companies.
I'm just wondering how you think this plays ultimately in price for medical device companies over time? Thanks.
Technology &amp; Clinical Affairs</span></strong> Well I'm happy to jump in on the Lutonix side.
I can tell you that I'm not sure we have specific data to share on number of devices used per case just because we don't really have insight into that.
Unless we happen to have somebody standing in the room we wouldn't necessarily know.
I can tell you by the lesion lengths that we see we'd expect to sort of be in that 1.3 devices to 1.5 devices potentially per case kind of averaged out.
It's helpful.
Relative to the pricing scenario and consolidation of peers whatever look it's a very dynamic environment going on right now.
Pricing pressure has always been announced in other companies in the space.
I think specifically as you – I think the pricing dynamic is taking on a little bit larger or made a little bit of a larger impression in the investment community mainly because of some of the biotech and the pharma pricing issues that have been in the media recently.
A very large percentage I think it's 50% of our revenue has an ASP of less than $500 probably closer to $400.
So...
75%.
75% of our revenue actually.
So we're not exactly on the high-end of the radar screen here when they get to that.
Nonetheless the procedures they are under pressure and what we're trying to do is demonstrate the value and the quality and the outcomes and doing that with data which will gain a lot of traction and uptake from our customers as they move more to in the U.S.
an ACO kind of organization structure.
Chief Operating Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I think that those data sets are certainly very helpful in driving reimbursement I'd evidenced full reimbursement for Lutonix as a result of that value analysis that we work with CMS on.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our Q&amp;A session.
I would now like turn the call back over to Bard's management for closing or additional comments.
Thank you very much.
And I'd like thank all of you for joining us today and also close by thanking Bard employees globally for a strong year of execution so far.
So we'll update you again on our progress in January.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.