Good morning and welcome to the Cimarex Energy Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Karen Acierno Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for joining us this morning.
Last night an updated presentation was posted to our website.
We will be referring to this presentation during our call today.
As a reminder our discussion will contain forward-looking statements.
A number of actions could cause actual results to differ materially from what we will discuss.
You should read our disclosures on forward-looking statements in our latest 10-K and other filings and news releases for the risk factors associated with our business.
Today's prepared remarks will begin with an overview from our CEO Tom Jorden followed by an update on our drilling activities and results from John Lambuth VP of Exploration.
And then Joe Albi our COO will update you on our operations including production and well costs.
Cimarex CFO Mark Burford is also present to help answer any questions you might have.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Karen.
And thanks to everyone who's participating in today's conference.
We appreciate your interest in Cimarex.
We have some exciting new results to report to you for investments made earlier this year including the completion of our first two-mile lateral in the Meramec.
This well the Clayton had a peak 30-day IP over 16 million cubic feet equivalent which is a 72% uplift versus the average one-mile lateral in Meramec we've drilled to date.
Cimarex also completed its second two-mile lateral in the Wolfcamp A in Culberson County.
That well the Cavalcade looks to be one of the best wells drilled in the Culberson Wolfcamp A to date.
In addition our production group has done an excellent job on both existing production and bringing on new wells wells which continue outperforming our expectation.
These two factors combined led to another production beat.
To begin with however I want to start with some conclusions.
I'd like to begin the call by outlining a few key takeaways that we hope you glean from this morning's call.
First our production beat is a result of significant and meaningful improvements in our well performance and increased focus on our base production and an emphasis on operational excellence.
Joe and John will give additional details on these operational improvements.
Second we hear lots of talk lately that the industry focus is no longer on growth for growth's sake.
This is heartening since we've been saying this for 20 years.
Cimarex has also maintained an unrelenting focus on return on invested capital.
To that end we do not have an overarching strategic preference on commodity type.
We drill the wells that offer the best full cycle returns.
We model our investments using realized prices with room for draconian downside.
Our production mix will shift between gas and oil depending upon our well mix and the returns we find within our portfolio.
Third Cimarex has a bias for pressured reservoirs and pressured tight reservoirs tend to produce a commodity mix that is both oily and gassy.
These reservoirs have tremendous deliverability and also contain the energy which gives longer horizontal wells a turbo charged uplift.
John will discuss the results of our first long lateral in the emerging Meramec play.
Don't miss the significance of this well to our acreage position and the future potential of this play to Cimarex.
Fourth Cimarex is entering a period of significantly improved capital efficiency.
You will hear lots of discussion today about upcoming development projects and pilots that involve 10 000 foot and 7 500 foot horizontal wells.
These longer horizontal wells are providing great improvements to our capital efficiency and our program is rapidly evolving to be dominated by them.
Our acreage positions in both the Anadarko and Delaware Basins support a growing long lateral program.
John will discuss our upcoming long horizontal well development projects in the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp A Delaware Basin Wolfcamp D and the Anadarko Basin Woodford Meramec.
And fifth and finally as we look into 2016 we see Cimarex positioned where we have told you we need to be.
We've told you we need to find a sustainable path in this downturn one where we can make a living add value and not wait for the rescue ship.
We will enter 2016 with 12 operated rigs.
Owing to tremendous improvements in drilling efficiencies completion optimization and cost reductions we may be able to accomplish with 12 rigs what we had previously modeled with 16.
As we look ahead we model a program for 2016 2017 and beyond which is within cash flow and cash on hand and allows us to survive and prosper in this difficult environment.
This has always been our goal and it is a tremendous complement to our organization and to our assets that we have found firm footing.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John for further details.
Thanks Tom.
I'll start with a quick recap of our drilling activity in the quarter before getting into some of the specifics of our latest results and more color on upcoming activities.
Cimarex invested $184 million during the third quarter drilling and completing wells.
About 60% was invested in the Permian region with the rest of that money going toward activities in the Mid-Continent region.
Companywide we brought 56 gross 14 net wells on production during the quarter.
Our Permian operations are in Delaware Basin where we brought on 4 of the 14 net wells during the third quarter.
All were Wolfcamp wells.
Our long lateral program in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson County continues to provide solid results.
We now have 30-day peak IP rates averaging 2 308 barrels of oil per day from 13 Wolfcamp D long lateral wells.
As always we continue to work on optimizing our frac designs.
We have had great success in lowering drilling days along laterals meaning individual rigs can accomplish more than previously thought.
Joe will talk more about those details shortly.
On our last call we talked about our plans to spud our first Wolfcamp A down spacing pilot in Culberson County.
Locations are being built and drilling is expected to be underway this quarter.
This six well pilot will be drilled using 7 500 foot laterals and will test two different spacing designs.
Half of the wells will test eight wells per section spacing while the other half will test six wells per section.
Both will be drilled in a staggered pattern.
Regarding our plans to begin development drilling in the Wolfcamp D in Culberson we have adjusted our plans from what we discussed on the last call in that we will now drill five new 10 000 foot laterals stack staggered in the Wolfcamp D on the two adjoining sections immediately east of our two spacing pilot sections.
This change will insure the accuracy of the production data since unlike the original planned sections there'll be no parent wells embedded within these development wells.
Plus the added benefit that we expect to achieve very good A-tax rate of return for these 10 000 foot wells even in this challenging commodity environment.
Drilling will commence in the first quarter of 2016 with production scheduled to begin mid-year.
Now on to the Mid-continent you will recall that we began drilling on the Cana-Woodford row 4 infill development program late last year.
Completion on these 57 gross wells covering seven sections are nearly finished and production has begun.
We will be moving drilling operations to another Woodford row infill on the east side of the core.
This development covers six sections.
Cimarex will operate the westernmost two sections drilling 14 gross wells.
The entire row project consists of 50 gross 23 net wells.
Production from this east Cana development row is expected to come online in July of 2016.
And in our emerging Meramec play we now have production data on 11 5 000-foot laterals.
These wells have an average 30-day peak IP rate of 9.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day with oil yields that vary from 15 barrels per million cubic feet to 330 barrels per million cubic feet.
Our first 10 000-foot lateral in the Meramec has been on production for about two-and-a-half months.
The Clayton 1HX has an average 30-day peak IP of 16 million cubic feet equivalent per day which is a 72% uplift from the average of 11 5 000 foot laterals we've drilled.
We have another Meramec long-lateral producing now with a third currently drilling.
We are very encouraged from the early time production we are seeing from this second long lateral.
So much so that going forward we plan to drill long lateral wells on all of our delineated Meramec acreage wherever possible.
As we think about the future developments at Meramec Cimarex is focused on an area we call 14-10 (10:07).
This area is made up of 30 contiguous sections that have the potential to be developed in both the Woodford and Meramec using 10 000-foot laterals.
It's a big area.
To better understand the multi-zone potential for this area we have designed a down spacing pilot which we have commenced drilling on.
See slide 21 for an illustration of the design.
This pilot will consist of 11 wells to be stacked and staggered in both the Meramec and Woodford formations.
The pilot will be executed using 5 000-foot laterals on a little over half of one section.
The spacing in the Meramec will be the equivalent of 10 wells per section of which there will be five wells in the upper and five in the lower staggered within the Meramec.
The Woodford will be drilled with our standard nine wells per section development plan.
In addition to this pilot we have started filling back a two-well stack staggered pilot in the Meramec and our partner has commenced drilling on a Meramec spacing pilot testing five wells per section and one landing zone.
The data from these pilots will be critical in helping us design the appropriate development plan for this vast Meramec and Woodford resource.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe Albi.
Director &amp; EVP</strong> Well thank you John and thank you all for joining our call today.
I'll be touching on the usual items.
Our third quarter production our Q4 and full year production outlook and then I'll finish up with a few comments on LOE and where we're seeing service costs.
We had another great quarter in Q3.
Our total company net equivalent volume came in at 978.9 million a day.
That's up 4% from the 942 million a day we produced in Q3 2014 and it beat our guidance of 920 million to 940 million a day by a fair margin.
As Tom mentioned and as was the case last quarter our guidance beat once again comes as a result of stronger than expected new well performance and our production group's focus on minimizing downtime and optimizing production with us seeing particularly exceptional results coming from the Permian.
As we have mentioned in our last few calls our 2015 production growth was forecasted to come from the Permian in the early part of the year and then from the mid-continent in the latter part of the year and we're seeing just that.
Our Q3 2015 Permian equivalent production came in at 562 million a day up 38% from Q3 2014 while our Mid-Continent production came in at 405 million a day down as anticipated from the 518 million a day we produced in Q3 2014.
Our Cana Row 4 completion activity as John mentioned began in late Q3 and is forecasted to arrest the drop providing us with a very strong boost in production as we finish off the year.
As expected our Permian completion activity slowed during Q3 with only four net wells coming online during the quarter as compared to 30 in Q1 and 18 in Q2.
As a result our Permian net equivalent volumes declined during the quarter down 5% as compared to Q2.
That said the Permian continues to make up the lion's share of our production representing 57% of our total company equivalent volume and 85% of our total company oil volume.
Our Q3 Mid-Continent production came in as forecasted at 405 million a day down slightly from the 419 million a day we posted in Q2.
We're on track with our plan projecting the Mid-Continent production to wrap up considerably here in Q4 as our Cana completion activity picks up steam.
With the activity we're projecting 21 net Mid-Continent wells to come online in Q4 versus a total of 19 for the first nine months of the year.
As we look forward into Q4 our Q4 guidance of 0.98 Bcfe to 1.01 Bcfe per day incorporates our forecasted ramp up of production from Cana coupled with a slight drop in Permian production with our most recent slowdown in Permian completions.
Our Q4 2015 guidance reflects an exit rate that's 3% to 6% above our Q4 2014 average of 915 million a day and it provides us with a great springboard into 2016.
With our strong year-to-date results we've once again upped our 2015 full year guidance incorporating our Q4 projection.
Our 2015 total company net equivalent production is now projected to be in the range of 983 million to 991 million a day up from our previous guidance of 960 million to 980 million and reflecting a 13% to 14% growth over 2014.
Shifting over to OpEx as Tom mentioned our production group continues to focus on trimming our operating costs.
With their efforts we've seen sizable reductions and optimizations in items such as saltwater disposal compression rentals power fuel as well as well service costs.
As a result our Q3 lifting costs came in at $0.70 per Mcfe well below our guidance of $0.90 to $1.05 flat with our Q2 2015 average of $0.76 and down $0.29 or 29% from our 2014 average of $1.08.
When incorporating our forecasted production by region and the variable nature of workover expenses we're guiding our Q4 lifting costs to be in the range of $0.77 to $0.87 per Mcfe down from the $0.90 to $1.05 estimate that we quoted last call.
The important byproduct of our LOE reduction is the additional funding we're supplying our drilling program.
Our Q3 2015 average monthly LOE of $23.1 million per month is $6.6 million per month below our Q3 2014 average of $29.7 million a month which over a 12-month time period equates to us bringing up about $79 million that we can direct towards our drilling program truly significant.
On service costs with the continued industry slowdown the markets for both our drilling and completion costs remain relatively soft and in check.
Since our last call most of our drilling costs components have remained relatively flat with us seeing some modest decreases in a few items such as cementing well tubing and surface rentals particularly in the Permian.
Day rates for idle rigs continue to be very competitive down significantly from last year's rates of $26 000 to $27 000 a day to current quoted levels that are in a range of $17 000 to $18 000 per day.
On the completion side after the first signs of cost relief in Q1 our average total company per well frac cost came down approximately 15% to 20% from Q4 with us pumping an average of about 12% more fluid and 20% more sand.
As we've worked our way through Q3 we've capitalized on the continued reductions in frac cost by keeping our average well frac cost in check while pumping even bigger jobs.
As a result our average total company Q3 frac cost is still down the same 15% to 20% from late last year but we're pumping 65% more fluid and 84% more sand on the average than we did late last year.
The bottom line is we're seeing a slight drop in our major program total well costs since last quarter while continuing to pump even bigger jobs with our total well costs down anywhere from 15% to 20% from where they were at the end of last year.
Our current Cana core one mile lateral Woodford AFE is running in the range of $6.6 million to $7 million.
That's down about $100 000 from our last call and down 16% to 17% from the $7.9 million to $8.4 million quote that we gave you last year.
In the Meramec with it still early in the program we expect to see our current single well lateral wells fall closer to the lower end at the $7 million to $7.4 million AFE range that we quoted last call which is down about 13% from late Q4.
In the Permian project drilling continues to be our primary focus.
With more wells under our belt we've cut our Wolfcamp two-mile lateral spud to rig release time 20% from 35 days in 2014 to 28 days in 2015 and have a record well this quarter that came in at 20.5 days.
We have seen similar drill time reductions in our one-mile lateral Bone Spring Avalon category of wells cutting the average days from spud to rig release 26% from 23 days in 2014 to 17 days during the last quarter again with a record well of a very respective 9.25 days.
We've established good momentum cutting the drilling days in our entire Permian program and as such we're getting more done with fewer rigs.
With continued gains in drilling efficiencies and market cost reductions we've dropped our two-mile lateral Culberson AFEs down about $200 000 with current AFE estimates of $10.8 to $11.6 million.
That's down 18% from late last year.
So in closing another great quarter's under our belt.
Strong year-to-date performance resulted in yet another quarter with a good production beat.
We've made significant strides to cut our LOE.
Our drilling program continues to churn out very positive results.
And we remain vigilant to keep our costs in check and optimize our program results.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Drew.
It looks like you have two objectives with the 2016 program one being to maximize capital efficiency and the other one to size up the resource base.
So I'm hoping you can shed some light on how you balance innovation or pushing the envelope on well performance on one hand and minimizing costs on the other.
And I guess as it relates to the pilots you plan to drill how much variation in well design do you expect to implement? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Drew.
This is Tom.
That's a great question.
You know certainly capital efficiency and return on capital remains our top focus.
But you always have to have room for innovation.
In particular our assets are in wonderful areas where we have a very thick stratigraphic column.
And understanding and identifying the full extent of that column and how many ultimate targets we're going to have is critical to full cycle development.
I would say first order is looking at the stratigraphic section and understanding how many unique landing zones you'll have.
And then second order is what the wells will be spaced side to side.
And the challenge as we develop these resources and go into full development is making sure that we've identified all the various landing zones that will become available to us because you cannot always go back and get them later.
If you don't identify all the landing zones up front you run a serious risk of orphaning some targets that will not be available to you either not at all or if you come back later you'll severely interrupt existing production.
So it's always a juxtaposition.
And some of the pilot projects that John has outlined allow us with small sample projects to test those various landing zones to try to optimize so as we go into full development we're doing it prudently and with the decades of inventory in mine so that we don't strand resources.
So it's always a tradeoff between innovation and capital efficiency.
Yeah.
This is John my only follow up with that Tom's right on point is what's nice about these projects we have outlined is we are looking for greater capital efficiencies out of these particular pilots especially the Meramec Woodford one that I described.
If we're going to be looking at mean ways to reduce our per-well cost on a per section basis and we hope to see those type of achievements with that type of pilot while also generating very good returns in testing those multiple levels.
So we hope to really achieve a lot by these pilots and put us in a very good position to go forward in our development plans.
Director &amp; EVP</span></strong> And this is Joe.
I'll just add something further to that.
With these pilots we'll also be experimenting with the optimal facility design the utilization of zipper fracs to try to optimize our completion costs to that end.
Everyone thank you for all that color.
Very helpful.
In the Meramec as you complete those that first pilot I guess the pilot you and Devon have the two pilots are you looking to move forward to drilling those long laterals later in 2016 or is the outcome of the pilot kind of predicated on that? Well this is John.
Like we've always talked about when we look at pilots and we ask ourselves what are we trying to learn from pilots in terms of the ultimate spacing as Tom alluded to the different landing zones.
Yes we tend to lean towards 5 000 foot laterals for those just from a standpoint of capital investment.
But as far as going forward especially in terms of holding acreage and future drilling in the Meramec especially once we understand the ultimate spacing pattern our plans are to drill 10 000 foot laterals over the majority of our Meramec/Woodford acreage.
The nice thing is our acreage is contiguous enough that we have that ability to do that.
I'll just ask one more.
Can you compare the returns in the Meramec as they look today to Culberson County Wolfcamp and Cana? Are they similar across those three? You know it varies obviously; in the Meramec as I talked about in my part of the script there is a large variation in yield and deliverability and so there are some sweet spots I would say in the Meramec that when we look at it especially from a standpoint of 10 000 feet those wells come right to the top as far as the type of returns that we can generate.
They compete head on with some of our best Bone Spring drilling as well as some of our best Culberson Wolfcamp long-lateral drilling.
So it's very nice to have that kind of portfolio that again we can go after here.
Thanks for all the color.
The next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah so question is can you give me the average number of rigs that you are running during the fourth quarter? And perhaps a little insight into first quarter are we going to just average 12 rigs for the first quarter and then the entire year? Just trying to get a feeling of your activity levels.
Yeah well this is John.
I think currently we have eight...
Seven.
Seven I think about to have an eighth rig and certainly by December we will be at 12 rigs.
That is our plan and that will be our plan going into the first quarter of next year is 12 rigs.
Those rigs will be deployed currently with six in the Permian and six in Anadarko.
And within each of those programs within the Permian two will be Bone Spring rigs the other four will be Culberson rigs.
Well three of them will be Culberson; the fourth one will be Reeves currently.
In Anadarko it's probably more of a mix of four Woodford and two Meramec but that will vary some during the course of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> And...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And to answer your question on the average Irene.
You can maybe call later and we can get that to you.
But we'll have 12 rigs by the beginning of the year and that's kind of where we want to enter 2016 too we think that's a good number and gives us kind of the flexibility we want.
Inc.</span></strong> Are you going to stay at 12 rigs? Or would you have any ambition to get up to 16? Or you don't need to? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we don't have any immediate plans.
We certainly have the capability but right now we'd like to stay at 12 and kind of watch and wait.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jason Smith with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everyone and congrats.
Tom I just wanted to come back to some of your earlier comments on returns.
Can you maybe just give us some color around what you require for an investment maybe on a full-cycle and half-cycle basis? And can you also just frame some of the draconian downsides that you highlighted? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well returns are – everybody who talks about returns we're probably all talking about different things.
You hear people talk about half-cycle full-cycle I will say that at the end of the day we sum it up and we look at a fully burdened return and that's how we grade ourselves.
And that would include all land amortized all overhead associated with programs any and all capital and what we book for reserves.
And here at Cimarex we only look at proved developed reserves.
We don't -- you know if we book PUDs at the end of the year we don't count that in terms of our reserve adds that goes into our returns.
And so there's a lot of room for things to go wrong in that but our experience is that on a return basis if you're good at this business you're really good you can get consistently mid to high teens fully burdened.
Now different people may have different reads on that.
That's our experience.
But things go wrong in our business.
And that means if you're expecting to deliver to your shareholders mid to high teens on all investments you'd better be drilling wells that are A-tax 25% or better.
And it just so happens when you sum up a program that's A-tax 25% or better if you're good you may end up having fully burdened mid-teens.
Now there's a lot of variation around that answer but that's the way we see it and that's what our experience tells us.
So within your portfolio today what would see as generating A-tax 25% or better? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well certainly I would say just about everything we're drilling.
With very few exceptions we won't get below that unless it's some extraordinary piece of information we think we can leverage for the future.
And you also asked about our downside.
We're currently running our investments at a $30-flat NYMEX oil held flat forever at $40-flat NYMEX held flat forever and $2 and $2.50 gas held flat forever.
And then furthermore we take the dominant revenue phase of a well and we see how low can that dominant revenue phase go and will we still get an A-tax 15% on that investment.
So we try to stress test our investment.
We're not perfect at it and there's certainly an ongoing debate here at Cimarex as to how we should be looking at it.
But we tend to live in a world where things don't always work as we planned and want to leave ourselves some room for that.
Thanks.
I appreciate that answer.
And maybe just on 2016.
So I guess from your comments sticking with 12 rigs instead of 16 is more due to efficiency than anything else? And you've previously mentioned that you want to spend the proceeds from the equity deal earlier this year next year.
Are you still thinking that way? Or are you comfortable maybe preserving some of those proceeds into 2017 at this point? Well this is John.
I'll take the first part of your question.
Maybe Mark will follow up.
Based on our comments earlier especially what Joe talked about in terms of how quick we're drilling these wells when we look at our programs now when we run up to 12 rigs we come pretty close to spending the amount of capital that we envisioned spending in 2016 when we originally looked at it from 16 rigs.
I mean we are really drilling these wells fast.
And so it just means we get more done with less rigs.
We're still looking at a certain capital model but we're just more efficient with it.
Mark? Yeah.
Just to follow up on that Jason and also you might have seen in the pie charts that our mix of drilling in 2016 is slightly shifting a bit more Bone Spring and Meramec in that mix of drilling.
As John alluded to the net number of wells we can cause through 12 rigs with that shift in mix of drilling is not that dissimilar to what we're running with 16 rigs.
Capital is down with just a little bit less long laterals in that mix of wells -- so capital would be probably -- efficiency of drilling time and also just overall well costs currently at least capital will be down probably with where we had it 16 (32:33) but number of net wells we're looking to get done is pretty comparable.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'll just finish up.
Jason when we did our equity offering and we first talked about 16 rigs we were in a -- what looks to us today as a significantly higher commodity environment.
We were at $60 $65 oil and looking at that as a go forward we've slipped quite a bit.
Now balancing that slip has been increasing well performance increasing drilling efficiencies.
So we're pretty pleased with where we sit today from a return landscape but we think it's prudent to be talking about the rig activity.
We are we maintain that flexibility and we hope that our Cimarex shareholders are listening will be glad that we're proceeding cautiously but moving ahead.
Appreciate the detail everyone.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I appreciate the time.
I guess first just wanted to talk a little bit more about the Meramec and as you've continued to work through the delineation program there.
How much of your acreage in the Meramec with Meramec exposure do you believe will have multiple landing zones within the Meramec ultimately? Is it the whole slug? Or is there a particular portion? The whole slug.
This is John.
We don't know yet honestly we don't know.
I mean it's a pretty thick section and so we haven't written off any of our areas I don't think yet where we think we can only do one landing zone.
We just don't know.
Time will tell and it's going to take more drilling by us as well as our competitors.
I will say that we do continue to experiment with different landing zones.
We traditionally drill most of our wells in what we call the middle Meramec.
We have some more recent wells we've done in the lower Meramec and we've been very pleased with what we see there.
So it's hard to say right now because we're just so early in the game.
So yeah I hope it's the whole slug but we'll see.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is Tom.
One of the things I would add to that is we're almost internally talking about the Mississippian section more than the Meramec.
We certainly have the Osage that sits underneath the Meramec and there's a reasonable suspicion that there's lots of areas where that's contributing significantly.
And then we also look at the Mississippian Woodford as one continuous petroleum system.
So I think for a lot of our acreage we're going to easily say that we're going to have three different landing zones in that petroleum system.
That would include the Meramec Osage and Woodford.
But John's right we're still delineating that and right now it's premature to give you an acreage count but it's a lot of our asset.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Is it safe to say that whole 14-10 (35:43) area that you highlighted would all be prospective by you're thinking currently for multi-zone development side of it? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Yeah.
We're evolving here and we'll give you more color on that project as we get our plans further defined.
But when you talk about an area the size that John talked about essentially all of its Cimarex operated.
We can drill 10 000 full length horizontal wells with three landing zones.
It's a big I mean we did get out and pick up a nice block of acreage but that acreage has termed.
And so part of that capital you see is us getting out there and insuring that we hold that acreage position.</p>
<p>But I'll also say and true to our word we chase returns and as we continue to drill these long laterals and if we continue to see good type of returns then yeah.
I mean we're going to take a hard look at that and make a decision as we always do.
We like to maintain our flexibility in that regard but again this is Mark.
And even though the plans have not been established completely for 2016 is still in motion President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Thank you everybody.
Appreciate all the detail.
Congrats on the Meramec.
The question I wanted to touch on Tom was I guess specifically on the Mid-Con successful results definitely working through optimal spacing President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Well that's a great question.
This is Tom.
We would love to find assets in our core areas that are at reasonable valuations and are bolt-on either extensions or even the ability to drill 10 000 foot laterals because they're adjacent to our existing position.
That would be a wonderful thing.
As you know the Meramec is not a secret.
There are a couple of really aggressive private equity players out there there are public companies that are extremely aggressive and there are new entrants every time we turn around.
So valuations out here are pretty challenging when you look at per acre costs.</p>
<p>There was a regional BIA sale that you're probably aware of that was two or three weeks ago? And what we bid one what did we win one track yes.
Thanks for reminding me President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>There was even the private equity players were standing there stunned because of the valuations.
So it's we're we would love to add assets either through M&amp;A or acreage bolt-ons it's another to say whether or not they're a poor operator or what could we do differently? So we look at that for sure.
But that's a tough challenge for us because again you're talking about bringing in something that would have to compete with the type of assets we already have under our belt in both the Permian and Anadarko.</p>
<p>So it's a pretty high threshold for us to get interested in something outside of those two basins just given the large inventory of opportunity we already have.
But we do look.
We're not -- we are always looking because we're always chasing the best return.
And if we think there is a better return somewhere else then yeah we'll go after it.
But boy President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>We always have an active search ongoing either for assets or M&amp;A.
Not a week goes by where we don't have several meaningful discussions on opportunities.
But as John said the Q4 completion schedule Director &amp; EVP</span></strong></p>
<p>For Q4 Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Hi.
Good morning Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Hi.
You talked about trying to identify landing zones early to make sure that you don't go and orphan any zones.
And can you talk about that a little bit in regards to the Wolfcamp C because it looks like from the presentation the Culberson Wolfcamp C development dropped off in exchange for the longer laterals in the Wolfcamp D.
And then also in the Meramec and the Woodford this is John.
First off we have not given up on the C.
I want to be clear about that.
What we've elected to do is in this case we are going to go develop the D on those two sections.
Really what we're doing is we want the see the effect of a stagger on those wells within the fifth D (44:47).
And we want to get that result because that's not something we've achieved yet with our other two pilots.
I will tell you that we have plans after we finish with those long laterals to go right back up north to what we had previously talked about as our C hero assault (45:04).
And there's a good chance that based on what we see from this latest development area that we'll then layer in the C wells.
Right now it's just one step at a time.
Right now we really want to see the effect of stagger and we don't want to overcomplicate it in this case.</p>
<p>As far as the Woodford Meramec and I guess what we tend to call optionality that is can you develop Woodford and then come back later and develop Meramec? Those are things that quite frankly we're trying to ascertain right now with some of the wells that we've been drilling.
I don't know that we have a firm answer on that just yet as far as can we do one and come back and do another later President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong></p>
<p>Jeanine it's Tom.
If we had to take a risk on that I would say our bias would be to drill the Meramec first and come in later and get the Woodford underneath it rather than the other way around.
And that's just the Woodford and the Meramec behave very differently when you offset them.
But John's right we don't know the answer to that yet.
One thing we do know Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong></p>
<p>Okay.
Great.
That's really helpful.
And then in terms of the production profile for 2016 dovetailing on our previous question it looks like that for the Permian the approach for completions there for next year is just drill all the wells and then complete all the wells at the same time which I think is what you're doing in the Mid-Con there are areas within the Wolfcamp where I think we have satisfied ourselves that we could be less chunky in our development and that is maybe take a section at a time.
But honestly from a capital efficiency standpoint I don't know that's in our best interest in terms of planning out all the infrastructure involved in this.
I think from our standpoint it is best to look at it more in multi-section development if we're really going to achieve those future capital reductions we'd like to see on a per well basis.
So honestly I think that's just where the whole industry's going Jeanine we've drilled quite a few wells there.
And in fact of the two rigs that will be drilling Bone Spring that we anticipate in 2016 one of those rigs pretty much will be drilling down in that Culberson area.
There is great potential still there.
I know we always sound like a broken record when it comes to the Bone Spring.
You know we don't think of it as a regional resource play like a shale.
For the Culberson acreage it just takes more drilling on our part to get more confident and de-risking on more of the acreage.
So yeah