Good afternoon my name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group PLC First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast in XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several document including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who'll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market condition.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street the Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date in which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining our call.
In the first quarter of 2013 XL showed continued momentum.
While the entire industry benefited from benign CAT and large loss experience XL's core metrics again demonstrate that the margin-expanding initiatives we have shared with you in previous calls are producing the desired result.
We have told you that an important indicator of progress for us is the improving trend in loss ratio especially in Insurance.
In the first quarter our accident year loss ratio for Insurance improved by 9.8 points versus the same quarter a year ago and Reinsurance by 8.5 points.
Greg and Jamie will provide more detail when they discuss their segment results in a moment.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio of 87.7% was 7.6 points better than the first quarter last year.
Net income for the quarter almost doubled from a year ago with operating net income up 70%.
Our first quarter annualized operating return on shareholders equity was 10.7%.
As we discussed in our last call we recognize that movement in our investment portfolio can lead to volatility so we focus on our operating ROE ex-unrealized gains and losses.
In the first quarter that was 12.3%.
We grew our fully diluted book value per ordinary share by 2.1% in the quarter.
We also continue to buy back shares and raise our dividend as people discussed.
In this regard it is worth restating that it is not our goal to expand our capital buffer but rather to keep it level and the economics continue to favor share purchases at these levels and we expect it to continue.
Overall P&amp;C gross premiums written for the quarter increased 3.8%.
The Insurance segment saw an increase of 12.1% primarily due to new business initiatives and pricing improvements across most lines.
However the same improving pricing trend is not being played out in the reinsurance market and we wrote 7.5% less premium versus the same quarter a year ago.
In sum we are keenly focused on grinding our way through sourcing selecting underwriting and binding better performing risks across all of our businesses.
We should also note that we see 5 tailwinds that should help us sustain our progress.
The first tailwind comes from the fact that we are seeing the reunderwriting of our books of business now earning their way to the bottom line and we expect that positive impact to continue over time.
Second the new leaders that we have put in charge of many of our businesses are hitting their strides.
Whether they are industry stars attracted to join XL or company veterans who are rising to the challenge and we expect these leaders to continue delivering improving results.
In connection with this second wind at our back we have many examples.
So let me give you a highlight.
We recently announced that Andy Pinkes would be joining XL as the Global Head of Claims.
He's taking over from Paul Tuhy who had built our claims team into one of the best in the industry and was looking for a new challenge.
Andy has a great track record and we see him building on our already solid reputation.
Meanwhile Paul has agreed to become Head of our Insurance Aerospace team.
So from outside and within we believe we are attracting and motivating the very best.
Third we continue to refine our business mix.
We are generally allocating more capital to those businesses with lower loss ratios leading to expanded margins.
This effort too has more room to run.
The fourth XL-specific tailwind is that we are seeing improvements in our operating leverage.
This was illustrated in the first quarter by the 1.2% reduction in our P&amp;C operating expense ratio the second consecutive quarter of meaningful improvement.
Fifth and finally we have benefited as has the broader primary insurance sector from continued improvement in rate for the risk we take on.
It is not yet where it should be but it is moving in the right direction and we will continue to push for adequate rate in all of our lines in both insurance and reinsurance.
Of course we are in a severity business and we don't expect to go through the entire year with all of these tailwinds not to mention this benign loss environment perfectly aligned at our backs.
Yet with what we are seeing now we are very pleased with our progress and quite excited about the momentum we have in place.
And I would emphasize to all who are listening in this call we are certainly not satisfied.
We will continue to work to continue the progress we have demonstrated for the past 4 quarters.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the first quarter was $280 million or $0.93 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to operating income of $165 million or $0.52 per share in the first quarter a year ago.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $351 million or $1.17 per share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 87.7% or 7.6 points lower than the same quarter last year including favorable prior year development of $31 million.
This reflects favorable development of $10 million and $20 million -- $21 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
As expected positive movements came generally from the short-tail property and catastrophe lines in this A versus E quarter.
Our semi-annual full actuarial review will be reported on next quarter.
P&amp;C favorable PYD in the prior year quarter was $80 million generally in the same lines combined with a single large positive settlement on an older large professional claim.
On a reserve-related note we intend to publish our Global Loss Triangles next week.
Our accident year combined ratio was 89.8% an 11.5-point improvement from the same quarter last year.
CAT losses both this quarter and the prior year quarter were relatively light and accounted for 0.3 and 1.5 combined ratio points respectively.
Our accident year ex-CAT P&amp;C combined ratio improved by 10.3 points mainly due to lower attritional and large losses changes in the mix of business and improved pricing.
It is important to remember that the Costa Concordia accident was our first quarter 2012 event and added 3.3 points to last year's combined ratio.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and slightly lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 largely due to the timing of costs associated with infrastructure and organizational initiatives.
Underlying expenses continue to grow along with the business but with increasing levels of operating leverage expected as the large initiatives continue to come online.
As indicated in the last quarter call we expect -- we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012.
Our Investment Portfolio delivered total returns of 0.7% in the quarter.
As a result of increasing rates in the U.S.
we had a small negative mark-to-market of $82 million in the quarter.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.4 years.
This was a combination of adding duration in the Euro portfolio to be nearer our benchmark duration putting cash to work in our U.S.
portfolios and the extension of prepayments in our agency mortgage portfolios.
We still remain short duration relative to our liability.
At $175 million net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was 8.1% below the same quarter last year due primarily to lower reinvestment rate.
We did have a couple of small items in net investment income in the quarter that contributed positively to our results.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of March was 2.9%.
We estimate that approximately $3.3 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3.3% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q1 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 1.5%.
As a result net investment income will remain under pressure.
We have added some further breakouts related to our investment income on structured products in the financial supplement to improve clarity on where the components of investment income flow through our financial results.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $51 million up $21 million from the prior year quarter supported by capital market tailwind.
As you know these results can be volatile but this quarter we saw good returns in all 3 investment affiliate classes: hedge funds private investments and our investment managers.
We also had positive returns from our other strategic affiliates as several had very good fourth quarter 2012 operating results.
Now to our capital management.
We continue to see compelling economics and share buyback.
And during the quarter we continued to buy back our ordinary shares.
Following the February Board of Directors meeting we announced the authorization of the new $850 million share buyback program.
This replaced the approximately $250 million remaining under the previous program.
We also increased our ordinary dividend by 27% to $0.14 per quarter.
In January we purchased and canceled 3.8 million ordinary shares for $98.4 million under the previous buyback program as we pause our buybacks as a result of Sandy in the fourth quarter.
We also purchased and canceled 4.2 million ordinary shares under the new buyback program for $125 million compared to $100 million in Q1 2012.
In total during the first 3 months of 2013 we purchased and canceled 8 million ordinary shares at an average cost of $27.89 for $223 million.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover results for the segment provide some color on our continuing improvements give a brief update on talent and finish with remarks on current market condition.
Beginning with the results.
The Insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 92.9% generating underwriting profit of $74 million.
This is an improvement of 8.3 points compared to the prior year quarter and it's the best quarter for this segment in more than 5 years.
Like the rest of the industry XL benefited from both minimal CAT activity and limited large losses.
On an accident year basis ex-catastrophes our combined ratio of 93.5% improved by 11.3 points.
The accident year loss ratio ex-CAT was 63.2% or 8.1 points better than prior year quarter 2 points driven by favorable loss experience in our International and North American property portfolios and 3 points from lower accident year loss ratios and several other books reflecting better loss experience changes in business mix and the impact of various underwriting action.
Also contributing to the improvement as Pete mentioned was the absence of the Costa Concordia marine loss which adversely impacted our first quarter 2012 loss ratio by approximately 2 points.
The expense ratio improved by 3.3 points this quarter with 2.2 points driven by flat operating expenses relative growth in net earning premiums and 1.1 points of improvement in the acquisition ratio mostly due to business mix.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $155 million or 11.6% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
We continue to realize planned growth as a result of new leadership in existing businesses as well as businesses that are new to XL.
Further we have less drag as some of the corrective actions we implemented over the past 12 to 18 months take hold.
Meaningful rate increases across nearly all of our 22 businesses contributed to the growth.
Our U.S.
Professional North American Construction North American property and U.S.
risk management businesses experienced the largest percentage growth with the U.S.
risk management teams solidifying their position as a new force in the market.
Our momentum continues to build.
At the recent RIMS convention clients and brokers were eager to learn about how XL Insurance can help solve their risk management needs and there was no pushback to our assertion that further rate is needed to generate appropriate returns.
Although we clearly benefited from a quiet quarter in terms of CAT and large loss activity we believe that the improvements we are beginning to see are the result of our ongoing efforts to expand margins.
These are the tailwinds that Mike described.
Clearly we're not ready to wave the victory flag especially given the variability that can occur with poor results due to the nature of our business but we do feel confident that we are making material progress.
Moving on to talent.
We continue to enhance our teams throughout this segment.
In addition to Andy Pinkes Stephen Ashwell joined us to lead a new crisis management business that will include our current product recall portfolio.
And we have recruited Lee Meyrick to lead Global Marine.
And while we have been adding talent from outside the firm we are also promoting talent from within.
Mike touched on Paul Tuhy and we also promoted Matt O'Malley to lead our North American Environmental business.
We continue to add underwriting talent with additions to our construction surplus lines and political risk teams and we expanded our underwriting capabilities in Atlanta and Australia.
Finally turning to recent market conditions.
The first quarter was a further continuation of what we've been seeing for the past several quarters with positive pricing trends outpacing claim trends in most of our businesses and an overall segment rate increase of 3.5%.
Over 70% of the first quarter premium experienced rate increases this quarter and in the first quarter of 2012.
This rate-on-rate is up from 60% in the fourth quarter of last year.
North America Property &amp; Casualty continues to show the most strength with the first quarter rate increase in the 4% to 5% range.
Our Global Professional portfolio had another solid quarter with rate increases that were also over 4% led by our U.S.
Professional portfolio which increased by nearly 6%.
Our International P&amp;C business which has a large January 1 first renewal book received meaningful rates for the first time in years with a rate increase of nearly 3% compared to flat rate in the first quarter of 2012.
And lastly our Specialty business had a rate increase of just under 4% led largely by our Marine portfolio.
While rate increases are broad-based the increase over loss trend is small and we continue to believe more progress is needed to achieve rate adequacy especially given the low investment rate cited by Pete.
In addition to the need in long tail lines that I've spoken on prior quarters excess layers across many lines of businesses are suffering from an oversupply of capacity and require further rate.
We have and we'll continue to walk away from business if the returns are not an acceptable level as we maintain our discipline and grind our way to a better return.
In summary we're off to a solid start as we continue to build on the foundation that was laid over the past couple of years positioning us for continued improvement in 2013 and beyond.
There is still a great deal of work to do to achieve our ultimate goal a combined ratio of 90% or better but we have more confidence than ever that is attainable as long as we maintain our underwriting diligence.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had a very solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 74.9%.
Naturally we had the benefit of negligible CAT activity but we were broadly pleased with the performance across the portfolio.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were $21 million compared to $26 million a year ago.
On an accident year basis the portfolio generated a combined ratio of 79.9% which compares favorably to the 88.7% produced in the first quarter of 2012.
The improvement in accident year performance was driven principally by the Costa Concordia loss in 2012 and the lower attritional property losses.
As respects our reserved releases we remain vigilant on our long tail business in recent underwriting years.
In the first quarter virtually all of our releases were from short tail lines.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $907 million a 7% reduction from the first quarter of 2012.
These reductions were principally driven by 3 factors.
A year ago after a long period of mediocre returns we decided to reduce our position in the marine market.
We closed our U.S.
operation and have tightened our underwriting standards in London where the bulk of our remaining activity takes place.
This accounted for a material portion of the segment's premium reduction.
Second reinsurance by nature is not a daily trading business and a small number of specific underwriting actions can make a significant difference on premiums written in any given quarter.
In the first quarter for example 3 treaties in our U.S.
Property department failed to meet our return targets so we canceled 2 of them and reduced our line on the third.
This accounted for over $30 million of the drop.
Finally we reduced our writings in both the U.S.
and European casualty markets as a result of our own underwriting actions and an increase in client retentions a dynamic we have been observing and discussing with you for several years.
So with respect to our top line and the market broadly there is no question as Greg reported that there's positive pricing momentum across many sectors of the primary market.
We do not believe the reinsurance market is showing the same level of discipline and we've responded accordingly.
In fact the obvious benefits reinsurers should enjoy as a result of primary pricing power have been diluted by weakening terms and conditions particularly in proportional treaties where commission structures are under pressures in sectors of the market.
Since the end of the first quarter the most significant renewal activity for XL Re at April 1 was in the Japanese market.
This went reasonably smoothly this year with risk adjusted rate reductions of about 2%.
The signing environment remains challenging but in both last year's and this year's renewals we had some success and selectively increased our lines in the market though the weakening of the yen will moderate the gain on our top line.
As you're all aware June and July 1 had a large component of U.S.
Southeast wind renewals.
We have a significant portfolio of renewal business in this market are actively quoting business and while it's too early to say what the pricing environment will ultimately be we anticipate a successful renewal.
From a pure rate adequacy perspective this is the most well-rated business in the world and we expect it will remain a very attractive component of our account once our renewal activity has been completed.
So overall we are very pleased with our bottom line results in the first quarter and we remain committed to our long-held focus on underwriting discipline and cycle management which has produced a strong track record of underwriting profit for XL.
With that I'll turn it over to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley please open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The Insurance segment underlying combined ratio of 93.5% stronger than we expected and clearly approaching your target of around 90%.
I'm just trying to get a sense of if you feel that you've got everything in place to achieve that targeted goal.
I'll start -- this is Mike Jay and thanks for the question.
I'll start and pass it on to Greg.
Broadly speaking for the reasons that I identified the so-called 5 tailwinds clearly we have some momentum toward those goals.
And while it's hard to be precise about how close we are we clearly demonstrated in this quarter what we're capable of and we just need to keep driving in the business mix changes the reunderwriting and the right kind of pricing to get the job done.
But it's clearly within our grasp.
That to us is very much what this quarter demonstrated.
Yes not too much to add to that Jay.
We are on the right path.
We've got to be incredibly disciplined and execute on all of our plans.
We've got a stream of underwriting activity new corrections that we need to execute on.
But we are definitely headed in the right direction.
There was a low amount of particularly on our property book a low amount of large loss book -- effectively no large loss activity as we define it in the quarter.
And so there's still a little bit of fortuity in there but it's becoming more and more skill every day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears to share buyback.
I believe the plan for 2013 was in the $500 million range.
You completed almost half of that in the first quarter alone.
I'm just trying to get a sense of the seasonality for the remainder of repurchases or whether there's upside to that plan now.
Well Jay a couple of points.
First I think that the first quarter is a little bit confusing just because we were finishing off repurchases that we associate with the fourth quarter of last year.
Now they certainly occurred in this quarter and are accounted in this quarter's results.
But you'll recall that when Sandy occurred of course we were busy in analyzing our losses and because we had knowledge the market didn't have as we were going through that we felt it prudent to stop our repurchases in the open market and not continue them again until we had put out our Sandy loss.
So that caused a pause in repurchasing that we -- and given the time of year and everything else that we really couldn't get done until we were in the first quarter.
So we associate that portion of the repurchase with the fourth quarter and don't really count it against what we were forecasting for this year.
What's been repurchased in this year as we associate it with this year is $125 million as Pete said.
That's obviously directly in keeping with our sort of our commentary around what we thought was the likely level of repurchases but we had said when we -- and so that's clearly 1/4 of $500 million.
But we've also said we try to give a number that we're pretty confident around and that if things come in better we would see there is some opportunity for upside to that.
And that statement is every bit as true today as it was when we said it.
That said we don't give a direct guidance about our plans.
We don't see anybody being well served by that and we'll look forward to discussing next quarter what we choose to do in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one for Pete.
The property-casualty investment income came in stronger than expected and my sense is the robust level of returns in the alternatives may have had something to do with that.
Do you have a sense of how much above plan investment income was recognized in last quarter? Sure Jay so I would not go towards the affiliate income there.
What I would say I did mention a couple of items that moved that number up in the quarter.
There were 2.
One was we had some paydowns on our MBS that were I'll call it more in line with expectations this quarter as opposed to the acceleration that we saw in the past couple of quarters.
So that I think drove maybe one of the things that might have surprised people.
The second one was some stronger cash flows on a few older CDOs that we received in the first quarter.
When you add those together it's talking ballpark $6 million $7 million.
Research Division</strong> And that's in the P&amp;C investment income line? That is in the P&amp;C net investment income line.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Was there an impact Greg from crop in the first quarter or maybe Jamie in terms of reserve reestimates or losses related to 4Q? Yes we increased our reserves on last year's crop results by $4 million in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one question I mean we've heard a lot -- Jamie mentioned conditions in reinsurance not being as favorable as what Greg talked about on the Insurance side.
What about the stuff that's in the middle like the broker-placed primary and excess business what are the conditions like there from a rate perspective? And is there a risk that that -- or what is the risk that that starts to see these sort of conditions bleed over from the reinsurance market? And just one follow-up if I can.
So Mike are you on like the Property E&amp;S line there? Research Division</strong> I mean not anywhere in particular.
But sure let's say property.
Let's say like U.S.
non-CAT property.
So far what we've seen right now is -- the rate increases I described to you are broad-based across our entire portfolio which would include a portion that's an E&amp;S property as I would call it.
And so to date we haven't seen nor do we hear about any noise from the market if there's any damage to that coming over from the reinsurance market.
They're just 2 very different markets at the moment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just maybe if I could Greg you mentioned 4-ish percent rate in some U.S.
lines.
What is loss trend that you -- where are you booking that from a loss trend perspective and how much of the year-over-year combined ratio improvement was driven by rate well in excess of loss trend? Sure Mike.
For the quarter our 3.5% rate change across the segment compares to a blended loss trend of 1.8% so we're about -- just under 2 points rate over ahead of trend.
That's on a written basis though.
So we're -- an earned estimate of that would be just under 1 point is where we're thinking in that delta.
We've got 17 out of 22 businesses or 85% of the premium that's in that camp of rate exceeding trend.
Geographically split the U.S.
is getting more further ahead of trend.
International is finally starting to make a dent against trend.
So as you look at it across on a written basis all-in this translates to just under basically roughly 1% improvement in loss ratio.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned some timing issues that affected the expense comparison and hard to tell if it benefited this quarter or hurt past quarters.
Is the expense run rate for this quarter understated because of these timing issues? Jay I would say broadly yes and I would pretty much reiterate what we talked about last quarter which was that we thought for the year that we were looking at something in the low to mid-single-digit range of an increase.
I would say that is still holding true.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately do you know at this point if you have any material exposure to the plant explosion in West Texas? Yes we don't -- as you know Jay we don't get into specific clients or accounts but at this point no we don't have any specific news out of Texas to comment on.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
The first one the quick one was there commutation in the life insurance segment? It looks like something happened there.
No no.
There wasn't.
What happened -- so you're talking about the reduction in the premium line? Research Division</strong> The reduction yes.
Yes.
So one of our blocks of business is some term life business Reinsurance business and we had a client that had a number of I'll call it policyholders that were coming up upon -- every 5 or 10 years you get a large increase right scheduled increase.
Most people have 6 months in which they can go back and cash in and say "I really didn't want that policy." We had a number of those in the first quarter right and that's what drove it.
It was simply some term life movement.
I would not view that as a permanent decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the second one Mike I'm just curious you all have a Lloyd's Syndicate.
And I'm wondering what your thoughts are on the Aon deal with Berkshire Hathaway.
What that means for the Lloyd's market kind of what are your thoughts on it? Well the specific answer to your question is it's too early to tell.
I mean this is a fairly new phenomenon.
I think everybody is trying to get their head around it.
You can't help but step back and admire Ajit.
I mean this is a very smart shrewd industry participant and he demonstrated again those qualities.
In terms of how we're viewing it what we'll be very mindful of is we too have a very significant relationship with Aon and we too have a very significant presence in the Lloyd's market.
And we don't expect that arrangement like this with other players should have meaningful impact on our own experience with either our broker partner or our market experience.
And so that's what we'll be monitoring for.
But you can't help but admire the creativity of Ajit.
It's very impressive.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to congratulate you guys.
The combined ratio was the best since from what I can see 2007.
So great work by the team.
Just a small thing on that.
It's just reserve releases were actually lower than what we had thought and lower than actually most of the first quarters that I've seen for a while.
We're going to see your Triangles it sounds like very soon.
Can you comment a bit on what we'll see and how you're feeling on the reserve side and -- relative to previous periods? Yes this is Mike.
I'll start and then Chris we have the benefit of having Susan Cross here our Global Chief Actuary and I'll ask Susan to make a couple of comments.
But the first comment is the obvious one.
Remember this is not a quarter in which we do a deep dive on our reserves.
That's for next quarter.
So you don't get a lot of action in this quarter.
And each quarter has a result when you're comparing first quarter to first quarter to first quarter.
It can have its own little story.
The second thing I would say is that the real place to get deep inside into where we stand on our reserving is in the Global Loss Triangles.
That's coming shortly and I won't steal any of the thunder from that.
But you can -- you know our history and you know how we think about these things and I continue to be very comfortable with both the approach which is unchanged and the results which I'm pleased by.
But Susan do you want to add a little more color? Sure Mike.
As Pete mentioned in his comments regarding the prior year development releases that we had this quarter relative to last year the first quarter in 2012 we did have a large professional liability settlement that we reflected last quarter.
And from time to time we will have those kind of one-off adjustments that we'll make in an A versus E quarter.
The magnitude of that was about $24 million and that yes obviously did result in a larger favorable prior development last year.
But this is very much in line with what we would expect in an A versus E quarter.
The releases were driven by the short-tail lines.
I would say one of the other differences we had relative to the first quarter last year is reflecting some of the short-tail experience in our Marine business in the first quarter of last year we had some favorable development and this quarter we had some adverse development related to some large Marine losses.
That was another $10 million of the difference.
So nothing to read into those changes.
It's what we would normally expect.
With the Global Loss Triangles that we have coming out next week there's essentially no change in terms of the presentation of the information.
We have 12 classes of business.
We hope you will find that useful in doing your own analysis.
We believe they will demonstrate what they have in the past around a very strong reserve position.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then shifting gears entirely just one of the things I'm wrestling with is the pricing power outside the United States and you had mentioned actually International was at plus-3% which is actually a little better than what some others are talking about.
Do you see the International markets lagging the U.S.? In other words will they be catching up in future periods or is the International markets -- are they just doomed to be beneath structurally for some reason what we're seeing in the United States? I'll start and hand it -- this is Mike.
I'll start and hand it to Greg.
There's no structural reason for the difference.
There's a matter of habit and we think those habits are correctable over time.
And that's I think illustrated by the progress we've made by seeing I think some really good leadership.
People like Jason Harris who's now leading our IPC booking in France who's been recruited to lead our property book; our longtime leader of casualty Thomas Stamm.
I think those folks just have a real sense of determination and purpose and are approaching their clients to show what the XL difference is that is worthy of a fair price.
And that determination is working.
And I'm just -- I'm really proud of that crew and all the people who work with them.
We're really seeing a real difference now.
But there's no structural reason.
The only thing you can point to that people do tend to point to is of course the general weakness in the European economy.
But in the end the companies that we seek to serve over time are not just in the European economy.
Many of them are export driven and multinational.
They're going to have experiences from all around the world.
So we're not accepting the notion that because Europe is specifically experiencing economic weakness that that means that somehow that has to translate into us selling our products for less than they're worth.
We don't accept that argument and I think our lack of accepting that argument is serving us well.
Greg? Yes it's nothing to get -- Greg it's nothing to get excited about right? We're talking about from all the color I've seen anyways flat to plus 1% from some of the peer group and we're at just under 3%.
One thing that is helpful is that the trends in our book.
When we have -- when we talk about International Property &amp; Casualty it is literally just that.
It's our global property and our primary casualty and our upper middle-market books.
We don't -- and I think some others may blend in professional and other lines of business.
And so you have that delta going on as well but the loss trend is about half in IPC what we call IPC International Property &amp; Casualty than it is in North America.
So we're making some progress.
I am -- I have long said that you're foolish to try and predict rates going forward.
You're balancing the need for better margin there with some strong sources of capacity both from global players and local champions as we would look strong local companies.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Hats off to the team.
It wasn't just weather that helped in the quarter.
There's a lot of real good progress being made here very tangible signs of that coming through the P&amp;L.
And the next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess you guys cited low levels of large losses.
Is there a way to kind of help us size that up and what is -- how much a benefit it was versus normal? We -- while many of our businesses have large loss loads that we measure to we don't disclose those.
But this quarter was exceptionally light.
I mean I think you know that from just about every call you've been on.
Certainly it's true at XL.
And we would experience -- we would ordinarily experience at least some in the quarter.
And while there are always some losses that stick out and that we're paying particular attention to it was one of those odd quarters where things didn't seem to happen to the degree they usually do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of -- and lastly most of my questions have been answered.
In terms of the reinsurance outlook it sounds like clearly there is some pressure on pricing a number of companies' reinsurers have cited expectation for supply to outstrip demand at mid-year renewals as well.
I was curious if you guys can touch on -- if you guys are thinking the same and how you guys will manage that going forward.
Well I'd make a couple of points Mike.
One is we only have 2 firm orders so far and there were double-digit risk-adjusted reductions in both of them.
Having said that from the way we measure rate adequacy they were both very very highly paid before they went in to their renewals.
So there clearly seems to be a real demand for people to write additional Florida business.
I think it's too early right now having only had 2 firm orders to say precisely what the pricing outcome will be.
But the other point I'd make for our own portfolio is our Florida book is about $35 million of CAT business.
We write proportional business as well.
Last year we wrote $460 million of worldwide CAT premium.
So while we have a significant book even if there are risk-adjusted reductions in the high single digits or low double digits we'll still have a very attractive portfolio of CAT business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess I'll slip one last one on Reinsurance then.
You're hearing a lot of -- seeing a lot of headlines about the crops not being potentially planted.
If a farmer didn't plant his crop would that qualify for crop insurance if you know? To be perfectly candid with you I don't know the answer to that question.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> First I want an answer to the other Ajit question which is your thoughts on how XL and the rest of market may be affected by Ajit looking to build a large E&amp;S operation.
Well first you've told me more than I know.
All I know is that there are 4 very respected folks that moved from one company to another but exactly what all they're going to do when they get there I was unaware there was so much news about it.
People move around the industry a fair amount.
One of the things we've been extremely excited about is the degree to which we feel that we've created a company where birds of a feather who love being great underwriters and love innovation are wanting to work.
So to the extent that Ajit has charms that he has prevailed upon these guys that's normal to me.
And so Ajit having some -- and Berkshire having some interest in perhaps the E&amp;S market welcome aboard.
It's a tough space to make money in and those are people who have real skill at it.
Whether they were applying that trade where they were or where they're going they'll be I'm sure tough competitors.
At the same time I'm awfully proud of our team and the progress that they've made in our E&amp;S book and we're going to keep sticking to our knitting and growing our nice book of business.
But there's not -- I don't -- you just can't overreact to that kind of stuff.
It feels like it goes on all the time.
We've just enjoyed the fact that we tend to be issuing more releases about what's coming our way.
That's been our joy around here.
L.P.</strong> Understood understood.
And then Pete can you clarify I was wanting to understand a bit better why increase the ratio now.
It seems there's -- the consensus is to keep duration shorter.
It seems maybe a risky time to go out right now.
Yes well so the one I'd say is part of it is just getting closer to where we're supposed to be right? So it isn't -- this isn't a massive move out on the  curb.
Part of it is pushing -- part of it is putting cash to work right? We had an awful lot of idle cash at the end of the year that we put into some fixed instruments.
But I don't know Sarah do you have any -- anything you like to add? Yes the only thing I would add is a lot of the duration expense came in the Europe portfolio and there we all less concerned about rising rates and in fact the other way given the struggle that the economy is facing there.
The next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but from a retention perspective I think you mentioned that your retentions were higher.
Could you help us understand so what's happening behind the scenes for that? Well first of all I want to make one general comment.
And then I'll turn it over to Greg for some specific retention comments on Insurance.
But as Jamie described in Reinsurance we've had a couple of decisions not to retain business on our part and at least in one case a client retaining some risk.
And in the insurance side we've seen some strong retention performance backed up by some positive rates.
So we're -- that's a very pleasing combinations.
Now look some people -- we're really pleased that we have a portfolio of businesses.
And we love the fact that when we see poor market behavior in one space we can shift capital to where the grass is greener.
And we try to do that with sophistication both across the segment level from insurance to reinsurance depending on market conditions and then within the various businesses in each of those segments according to their prospects.
So for example in reinsurance while our top line suffered a bit in the quarter because of some very specific underwriting actions we've also got a couple of green shoots going in a few product lines at the same time.
And at the same time in insurance we're remixing through what we -- where we will push growth and where we push rate and maybe have a more mix retention because the overall profitability of book has improved.
We love having this many levers.
This gives us we think in the marketplace an advantage.
Greg? Vinay across the segment the retention is 85% versus 81% of last year which doesn't surprise me.
We had a lot of corrective actions going on.
You remember particularly in North America they're up to 83% from 78%.
So that makes sense.
And in terms of discipline that's one part of the story is how you're doing on your renewals.
The other part is how you're doing on your new.
We've got an 8% increase in submission flow in the first quarter.
We're quoting 4% more than we did last year.
So we're quoting 43% of our submissions.
But our hit ratios are down.
We're down to 28% from 31%.
So I feel like we're seeing the flow.
Our teams are getting out there and quoting the business and we were still -- we're not as successful as we were last year because price is still tough to come by.
So I think those 2 together give you a pretty good picture of what's going on.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just as a follow-up within the primary insurance operations your premiums were up 12% this quarter.
Last quarter I think quotes on a normalized basis it was 12%.
Do you think that momentum accelerates as your teams gain further traction in this market? That's really difficult to forecast.
We had forecast that we would -- that we believe we would have growth but we haven't been specific about the number because these markets change every day it seems.
We have to really have the people on the ground with the right message about what it is we want that the fact that we put profitability as the first concern and great underwriting and then we let people run.
And when they've got that message right we get a mix of results.
And in this quarter it turned out to yield strong growth.
We do have a lot of new activities going on that are now maturing.
And I think that is part of the as I mentioned earlier the tailwind at our back from having these new lines of business maturing and these leaders maturing.
I think all of that is positive.
But we wouldn't turn that into some kind of an assurance about what happens next because it will depend on the environment for profit in the market.
Research Division</strong> So fair enough.
And just one last numbers question.
I think you mentioned it was -- the net investment income was $6 million to $7 million higher this quarter did I hear that correctly? Yes Vinay this is Pete.
Yes that was -- those are the numbers we quoted.
Our final question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Langen McAlenney.
My first question was just quickly on the tax rate obviously was kind of a little bit lower than you guys previously stated kind of mid-teens area.
Is that still the kind of the target we should shoot for is mid-teens even though it was a little bit lighter this year -- or this quarter? What we've talked about is an effective tax rate typically in the 11% and 12% range.
This was pretty much exactly in line with where we thought it would be.
Remember the way that we look at our tax rate is we annualize it.
So we look to see what we think our effective tax rate will be for the year and that's what we booked in the quarter.
And this one was pretty much in line with what we thought it would be.
Great.
And then secondly I realize I'm probably a little early on this but you're kind of -- you stated 2014 goal of getting a double-digit ROE ex-AOCI.
It seems somewhat achievable I guess a year early in 2013.
I guess at what point do you guys kind of move that goal forward obviously as rate increases and the reunderwriting kind of takes shape? Well this is Mike.
Certainly we're not moving it forward just because 1 quarter came in well.
There are other -- as we've emphasized several times there are some winds at our backs that you don't count on.
You don't count on this kind of a benign catastrophe environment.
You don't count on this kind of benign large loss environment.
But that said and maybe I'll say this in a way that I'm really talking not only to you but to all of my colleagues who I know often phone into these calls.
We are very driven to continue to improve this business.
We are not satisfied with this result.
We don't think it is a time to say victory.
It is not at all that.
And while I'm fond of that notion that the harder I work the luckier I get I think the reality is that we have a lot of work left to do to really be able to see this kind of result repeatedly which is ultimately what we'd like to do.
But we know that this is just a taste of what it's like when we're hitting on all cylinders and that's a pretty sweet taste and it makes us driven to do what we can to assure it happens more often.
But that's all I can say about it.
This is 1 quarter down.
The year stretches out long ahead of us.
And I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
Well I think I just gave them really.
I mean we're excited by this start.
It gives us a sense of what can be achieved.
We're well aware of the fortuity involved but we're very pleased with the underlying metrics that demonstrate that the work we have promised we would do is delivering the results we intended.
We appreciate all of your time and attention.
We know you'll have follow-up questions and we're happy to take them and look forward to talking to you again next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.