Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Among those also available for questions are Susan Cross our Global Chief Actuary; Sarah Street our Chief Investment Officer; and Stephen Robb our Controller.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining XL's second quarter 2013 earnings call.
As you would have seen in our prerelease XL's results for the second quarter like those of many of our peers were significantly impacted by natural catastrophes.
This comes after our sector had enjoyed the benefits of relatively low CAT losses in the first quarter yet we feel the same about each the first and the second quarter.
Setting aside the level of CAT losses we have maintained our focus on strengthening the quality of our underwriting businesses and enhancing our already strong leadership and we are excited with our progress as it is demonstrated when one looks at the first half of 2013 in its entirety.
Year-to-date our all-in combined ratio was 90.8% versus 93% for the first half of 2012.
Our combined ratio for the second quarter was 93.8%.
Ex-CAT this was a 92.7%.
Again an improvement over the 93.7% ex-CAT combined ratio for the second quarter a year ago.
As regards the second quarter it includes 3 positive results one that moves sideways and one that was at least on the surface negative.
On the positive side first is the fact that we had strong contributions from favorable prior year development of $119 million a nice affirmation of the strength and prudence of our reserving process.
Second our income from investment affiliates was $74 million in the quarter versus just $17 million in the same quarter a year ago.
And third the pricing trends and insurance continue to be positive and we have seen positive rate in 19 of 22 of our insurance businesses.
Those are the 3 things that went well.
As for a result that was more sideways that would be this quarter's action ex-CAT combined ratio insurance.
While it improved by 1.5 points versus the second quarter last year it did not stay at the very healthy levels of the first quarter.
We are unconcerned.
As we near the goal of running a 90% combined we would expect it to not always be improving but to bounce around some and this was such a quarter.
At the same time we were able to grow insurance premiums written in the first half of the year by 12.2% even as we chose to write 3.8% less premium in reinsurance and the underlying trends in our books leave us convinced that we will continue to see the improvements towards our goals.
Rising interest rates on the surface provided our negative result.
In the second quarter they had a predictably significant impact on our mark-to-market losses and our book value per share on a fully diluted basis decreased $1.59 in the quarter and $0.86 for the year-to-date.
We have long been in a defensive position with regard to interest rates and while timing and the degree of movement cannot be predicted we have been expecting an upward move.
And everyone on this call knows there are also some very positive benefits to rising interest rates that is why I call this only a negative on the surface.
This interest rate volatility is why we regularly refer to our operating ROE excluding unrealized gains and losses.
On that basis our operating ROE was an annualized 9.7% in the second quarter and an 11% for the year-to-date.
So while in aggregate we feel very good about the first half of 2013 a quarter like the second quarter reminds us we must continue to improve to reach the goals we have shared with you and we intend to retain our focus on daily execution.
I have 2 other issues I would like to briefly comment on before turning it over to Pete.
First as you all know there are public reports that XL is involved in the insurance coverage of the tragic train accident in Canada.
You may have questions on this topic but I must emphasize that we cannot comment on this ongoing situation.
And lastly just in the days leading up to this call we concluded the establishment of a new Bermuda-based company formed in partnership with a private equity firm Stone Point Capital focused on marrying our exceptional underwriters with third-party capital where appropriate.
We are delighted to announce this new venture and to partner with Stone Point.
They have a fantastic track record of investment in the insurance and reinsurance sector and this initiative aligns perfectly with XL's continued objective to offer innovative solutions for our clients.
With that I will turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the second quarter was $222 million or $0.75 a share on a fully diluted basis which is the same operating income level as in 2012 but then it represented only $0.71 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $273 million or $0.93 per share.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 93.8% or 3 points higher than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 101.8% higher by 3.8 points.
These increases were due to higher natural catastrophe losses in the quarter which included flooding in Europe Argentina and Canada and tornadoes and hailstorms in the United States.
As we previously announced for the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $134 million or 9.3 loss ratio points which was split approximately $76 million and $58 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2012 totaled $61 million or 4.2 loss ratio points.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $119 million or 8 loss ratio points compared to $101 million or 7 loss ratio points for Q2 2012.
This reflects favorable development of $49 million and $70 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
As you are aware the second quarter is a significant reserve valuation quarter for us and as a result we have reacted appropriately to any development indications identified during our in-depth review.
Positive movements came from specialty insurance lines as well as casualty reinsurance and to a lesser extent property reinsurance lines partially offset by some strengthening in insurance international professional and certain discontinued lines of business.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and in the first quarter of 2013 largely due to added headcount from an expansion in the underlying business partially offset by ongoing efficiency efforts.
As we have indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012 but at levels which will show continued improvement in overall operating leverage.
Turning to our investment portfolio.
As a result of increasing interest rates in our key currency jurisdictions late in the quarter our Investment Portfolio had a negative mark-to-market of $669 million for the quarter which resulted in a negative total return of 1.6% in the quarter.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio was $686 million at the end of the second quarter.
Net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was $162 million compared to $188 million in the same quarter last year due primarily to lower reinvestment rates over the last 12 months.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of June was 2.7%.
We estimate that approximately $3.3 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 2.9% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q2 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 1.6%.
As a result net investment income remains under pressure although current new money yields are generally up 30 to 50 basis points over what we achieved in Q2 which will help alleviate some of that gap if they are sustained.
As Mike mentioned our net income from investment affiliates was a very strong $74 million up $57 million in the prior year quarter.
As you know these results can be volatile but this quarter we saw good returns in all 3 investment affiliate classes alternatives private investments and our investment manager affiliates.
As a reminder we report these items on either a 1 or 3-month lag basis.
Our portfolio composition has not changed significantly.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration increased by 0.3 years to 3.7 years.
This increase was largely caused by the impact of higher rates late in the quarter on our Agency MBS portfolio.
We also added a small amount of duration at the end of the quarter to take advantage of the back up in rates that occurred.
Another notable action was the sale of almost 1/3 of our legacy Non-Agency RMBS portfolio in May which resulted in $17 million of realized gains.
With respect to capital management we continue to execute on our share buyback program and during the second quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $150 million at an average price of $30.97 per share leaving $575 million available for purchase under our previously announced $850 million share buyback program.
While for the year-to-date we have seen a significant increase in our share price we continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management tool.
As we announced earlier in the quarter we continue to focus on talent development with the addition of Phil Jacobs to our finance leadership team.
I've known Phil for over 25 years and he brings with him a wealth of experience from companies including Barclays and AIG and we look forward to him joining us next month.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Steve and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the results for the segment provide some comments on our semiannual reserve review give an update on talent and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the Insurance segment combined ratio for the quarter was 99.6% 0.5 points worse than the same quarter last year driven largely by CATs and partially offset by slight improvements in our accident year loss ratio.
On an accident quarter basis excluding CATs our combined ratio of 97% improved by 1.5 points compared to prior year driven largely by improved operating leverage.
Our year-to-date accident year combined ratio ex-CAT of 95.2% reflects a 6.4 point improvement over the first half of 2012.
The accident quarter loss ratio ex-CAT was 65.5% for the quarter or just 0.3 points better than prior year quarter.
While I'm unsatisfied with the 2.3 point deterioration in our accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio relative to our first quarter results as I've said in the past we believe it best to look at results over a period longer than 1 quarter given we are in a large corporate risk business with inherent volatility.
We remain confident about our progress given our year-to-date accident year loss ratio ex-CAT was 64.4% a 4.1 point improvement over the same period in 2012.
This improvement was driven by better loss and experience in our international property book where underwriting actions have contributed to a full year without a large non-CAT loss in our Marine business.
We also benefited from reduced loss ratio within several of our lines reflecting implementation of various underwriting actions.
Briefly on CAT losses in the quarter.
As Steve mentioned although the segment incurred $76 million we performed well relative to market losses as several of our underwriting actions such as tighter flood supplements and the use of facultative reinsurance reduced our overall loss exposure as intended.
Insurance gross written premiums grew by $154 million or 11.7% in the quarter after adjusting for foreign exchange movement.
We continue to achieve growth in both our mature and new businesses.
Our international property North American Construction and U.S.
risk management business experienced the largest percentage growth with the U.S.
risk management business benefiting from the addition of several key new clients this quarter.
Meaningful rate increases across nearly all of our 22 businesses also contributed to the growth.
And during the quarter we renewed our core professional property and casualty treaties notably converting the professional treaty to a quota share from an excessive loss.
On all 3 placements we were able to achieve an improved economic result for XL.
Shifting to loss reserves.
We completed our reserve review in the second quarter based on experience of the first quarter of 2013.
Overall this resulted in a prior year reserve lease of $48 million compared to $43 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Releases in our aerospace Bermuda Professional and North American Excess Casualty books were partially offset by strength in our International Professional portfolio and a flat result for our U.S.
Professional portfolio which has been a strong contributor start with a positive PYD.
Within the U.S.
Professional business we are seeing a security -- that as securities class action lawsuit continue to slow regulatory investigations and M&amp;A-related losses have picked up.
These types of claims tend to incur with a higher frequency have a lower severity and develop at a faster pace.
Being one of the lead primary carriers in the U.S.
professional market XL has been working with clients to structure programs to appropriately ensure these increasing risks since the end of last year.
Even with this recent shift we continue to be very pleased with the stellar performance of this portfolio.
The adverse development in our international professional book is related to our small solicitors business.
Loss frequency has increased over the last few years and with market competition heating up some of it with unrated insurance carriers we simply are not able to obtain the necessary rate increases to make this book profitable.
We are in the process of reducing this book by 75% from a peak volume of $80 million effectively returning only those accounts -- retaining only those accounts that we can underwrite at or above our target return.
Moving onto talent.
We continue to strengthen our teams throughout the segment.
In addition to Andy Pinkes who joined as Global Head of Claims in May we recruited Luiz [indiscernible] to lead our International Professional Group.
Luiz starts in September.
And we added Renato Rodrígues as country manager in Brazil supporting our expansion strategy in Latin America.
We began underwriting our new crisis management business this quarter after successfully adding 13 new hires to the team.
In addition to adding talent from outside the firm we continue to develop talent from within promoting Kadidja Sinz to lead our Continental Europe Distribution and Network team.
Finally turning to recent market conditions.
The second quarter was a further continuation of what we've been seeing for the past several quarters with positive pricing trends outpacing claim trends in most of our businesses and an overall segment rate increase of 3%.
Once again nearly all businesses achieved positive rate in the quarter on top of rate achieved in the second quarter of 2012.
In the second quarter our global professional book showed the most strength with rate increases of over 4% and more than 5% in our U.S.
professional portfolio.
Our North American P&amp;C businesses had another solid quarter with rate increases of 4% led by our U.S.
risk management and excess casualty businesses.
Our International P&amp;C business which has a lower volume in the second quarter and our specialty business both had rate increases of 1% impacted by the competitive market conditions in our primary casualty and aviation businesses respectively.
While rate increases are broad-based and 1.5 points over loss trend on a year-to-date basis we have seen a minor slowing in short-tail lines particularly in North America.
Long-tail rates were generally stable to accelerating this quarter as the economic reality of low investment returns continues to be a positive factor.
Attaining price change over loss trends is only one important component of our portfolio management strategy.
Optimizing mix and developing appropriate underwriting actions are equally important activities in achieving our return objectives.
Analyzing most of our businesses on a quarterly basis yields small data sets and as a result we do expect some volatility in our results from quarter-to-quarter.
That said our 2013 half year results continue to reflect the improvements that have been made in our underwriting over the past 2 years and we remain confident in reaching our longer-term goals of combined ratio of 90% or better.
From where we stand it's clearly obtainable given our determination to maintain our underwriting diligence.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment had a solid quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 79.7% producing an underwriting profit of $87 million.
These results were impacted by prior year reserve releases of $70 million and catastrophe losses in the quarter of $58 million net of reinstatement premiums.
The headline industry event in the quarter were the European floods which generated $44 million of this CAT activity a number well within our expectations for an industry event of this magnitude.
Excluding the impact of these items our combined ratio was 82% which compares favorably to the 83.2% in the second quarter of 2012 on the same basis.
During the quarter $25 million of the prior year releases were from short-tail lines $45 million were from long-tail lines and of these $35 million were from North American lines where we performed our semiannual major reserve review.
We remain very cautious on recent underwriting years and the majority of releases from North American long-tail lines were from the 2006 and prior underwriting years.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has produced a combined ratio of 77.3% virtually the same result as the 77.4% in 2012.
Excluding the impact of CAT losses and prior year releases the 6 months combined of 80.9% compares favorably to the 85.9% in 2012.
With respect to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $472 million a 4.4% increase from the second quarter of 2012.
There were 2 sources of growth during the quarter.
First $9 million in growth from the property CAT line was driven by increased reinstatement premium and select new business opportunities.
In addition our other category grew by over $25 million.
This included $17 million of new business opportunities in our Bermuda specialty account portfolio and $4 million of adjustments from business attaching in prior periods.
Turning to market conditions.
The mid-year CAT renewals in the U.S.
have generated considerable commentary around the industry.
With abundant capital supplies from both traditional and nontraditional sources chasing the business particularly the Florida-domicile specialist companies the pricing pressure was significant.
On a risk-adjusted basis pricing was off 15% to 20%.
You will be aware we have a consistent and long-standing method of measuring rate adequacy.
Going into this renewal this portfolio had a very solid adequacy level and notwithstanding the price reductions still measures acceptably on our scale.
Therefore we actually grew our book slightly with our Florida-generated direct CAT premium increasing by $3 million.
Prior to the renewal season we targeted a limited number of clients to grow and were successful in doing so.
In addition we have traditionally found rate adequacy levels to be more attractive at the higher end of these programs and the greatest pressure on pricing was at these higher attachment levels.
We chose to rebalance the portfolio slightly with more capacity deployed at lower attachment levels as the rate adequacy differential tightened.
So all in we modestly grew our aggregates and our premium based on targeted client expansion and rebalancing the book.
While we would have preferred a less competitive renewal we are satisfied we have a balanced solidly price portfolio in the region.
On the long-tail side our position remains cautious as we continue to navigate through an improving but still competitive primary market and the reinsurance market that seems intense on forfeiting the gains derived from primary pricing by granting improved terms and conditions particularly on proportional placements.
So overall we had an excellent quarter on a calendar year basis and an accident year result that was heavily impacted by the European flood and to a lesser degree the flood losses in Canada and the U.S.
tornadoes.
We firmly believe we will continue to lever one of the best underwriting teams in the world into attractive returns to our shareholders in challenging market conditions.
With that I will turn things back to David for Q&amp;A.
Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Mike I know you mentioned that you can't comment on the Canadian situation.
I'm not asking you specifically about that one but I'm wondering if you could tell us what a typical limit is for a large property placement for the company and what you typically retain if there is a number that is typical for you? Jay first I really appreciate the sensitive way you've formulated your question.
We have given that some thought and Greg has some information for you.
Sure.
Jay on our North American rail liability portfolio it's underwritten in our E&amp;S and our Excess Casualty businesses.
We've got experienced rail underwriters in both those organizations and they adhere to strict risk aggregation limits to control our exposures.
To your direct question our average line on short line railroads across the 2 portfolios is $32 million gross and $19 million net.
That's really all I can give you at this point.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the underlying combined ratio in the Insurance segment it's clear that that moved up from the first quarter.
I'm wondering if there are any large non-CAT losses in there versus perhaps an absence in the first quarter? It's Greg Jay.
There's nothing -- let me give you a little color.
The movement of the loss ratio which is the main piece the expense part of it is about 1.2% it's a lot of little moving pieces back-and-forth generally comp-driven related to as Pete noted about of growth in our talent.
On the loss ratio side we've had slightly higher lost dollars from modest losses.
Nothing in the large loss category but from modest losses and we've got an earn-out going on of some previous underwriting action which is a benefit but the main driver is higher accident year loss ratio picks across a few lines of business.
These changes are mostly based on updated views flowing from our kind of semiannual reserve review and they reflect 2 quarters of impact.
In rough numbers there's a 2% deterioration in the quarter and 1% deterioration on a 2013 year-to-date basis.
Research Division</strong> So it essentially reflects increased conservatism on most recent accident years? Yes Jay that's a good way to think about it.
It's reacting to more data but I don't think about it quite so much as 1 quarter going higher.
What I really think about is that probably the first year -- in the first quarter some of it was too optimistic and with more information we have a more balanced view.
I think that's the more appropriate way to look at it.
So I'm very comfortable with where these loss ratios are.
They continue to indicate progress over where we stood last year and we believe we can continue to expand margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Next question is on the unrealized investment gains.
The AOCI in the quarter was -- it's half of what it was 3 months ago obviously reflecting the rise in rates.
I'm just wondering does that affect your view on excess capital position at all? Jay it's Pete.
The short answer would be no.
So when we think about our capital our excess capital as we do with a lot of things that we've talked about we look at that on an economic capital basis much more than an accounting basis.
We've talked about in the past about also looking at rating agency capital right? And when we look at that stuff we've always viewed these positive marks as potentially temporary right so we've never taken the benefit for them right and so they get cut in half we don't -- there's no real adjustment to make when they come down either.
Research Division</strong> So just accounting not economic.
Right.
Yes.
The next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the Reinsurance segment just a little bit surprised that property CAT premiums are higher.
Would it be fair to assume that because you guys went lower down in the risks -- I mean lower down in the TARs that the dollar sort of premiums were higher so that's skewing the year over result in property CAT for Florida? There's 2 components of the $9 million increase in property tax.
$7 million was from reinstatement premiums.
We obviously had elevated CAT activity in the quarter.
And as I mentioned we did increase our lines in Florida.
But remember as I think we've mentioned in prior quarters we don't depend heavily on Florida as a source of our CAT business.
So we started with $33 million and ended with roughly $36.5 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
The second question was on the status of maybe a sale of the Life Reinsurance segment.
If you've seen another life property that's been recently sold and interest rates are higher.
So any update on that would be helpful? This is Mike.
As we continue to work along the marketplace in some ways you could say it's more favorable but at this point for our particular book of business there's nothing to announce at all.
This is Pete the only thing I'd add is spread narrowing are more beneficial than just risk fees [ph] going the right direction as well.
Our next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to the insurance-linked securities venture with Stone Point do you guys envision packaging non-property catastrophe risks into the fund such as casualty and maybe you could elaborate on when you expect the business to be written and/or the geographies? Yes.
I think you can expect that some of the preliminary focus will be on some of the lines that we've seen more traditionally associated with these activities but we do not have a limited vision for that business.
We believe that there's a lot of opportunity for innovation in marrying our great underwriting talent and additional capital and we think that our shareholders can get a good reward from that process.
In terms of timing you'll see the real focus is getting the business up and operational and involved in the 1 1 renewal cycle coming this year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Separate question on ceding levels.
In the past XL has talked about getting operating leverage.
Would potentially keeping more primary insurance and ceding less given the favorable reinsurance market conditions be a strategy? Well no.
Mike as I touched upon in my comments we're seeing what Jamie alluded to which is we're reaping the benefit of the enhanced structures that are available.
Just to give you a little color around -- a little more color on what I was referring to in my comments.
We renewed our property per risk our property CAT our Casualty and our Professional treaties.
On the property side it's a pretty easy story.
The volume of premium going in and out has not changed year-over-year.
It's really a case of buying lower down rounding out some coverage lower down and having more exposures as we grow going into the treaty.
So you get a pick up there.
Clearly that's an economic pickup.
You won't get that gain if there is no CAT losses over the next treaty year.
On the Casualty North American quota share and the Professional quota share we are going to cede -- it is a lot of moving parts in here but just under $100 million more premium and an enhanced ceding commission on the North American Casualty side.
And for the Professional side we're converting from an excess of loss to a quota share.
So on the margin that's a little bit more than the current run rate but we just are picking up on what we're seeing on the reinsurance marketplace as Jamie alluded to earlier.
Our next question comes from Joshua Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up during an earlier question you said that you might have been too optimistic about your first quarter loss picks I'm wondering just how -- is there favorable development on current accident year in the second quarter numbers? Exactly.
Again as the year unfolds and you start to see the real loss activity you adjust your pick for the year to reflect the trends you're seeing.
So more data gives us more information.
But again what I'm emphasizing is that this has been evolving over the 6 months not just in the last 3 months.
And it was immature to react to in the first quarter and we do our deep dive in the second.
So what you're seeing is the impact of all that.
The good news about it though is again as I look at it the overall book continues to improve compared to where it was last year.
And while the trajectory may not be at the same rate as we saw in the first quarter we're very pleased with the progress and think it continues.
Research Division</strong> Does that mean there's unfavorable development in the tail end of 2012 coming through? Again we're reacting to loss patterns as they emerge we're not talking about unfavorable development on the book.
This hasn't been a -- losses that have somehow evolved unfavorably.
Yes.
Some of it if I could try -- the deterioration that we saw in some of these lines of business in a number of accident years say '09 '12 and that in some instance informs your view going forward.
And so in learning about the 6-month reserve development of the prior year that impacts your view of how optimistic or not you want to be on the accident year going forward in '13.
So it's not -- it's an interaction of those 2 pieces is the main driver of the information we learned during the quarter of what pushed us out.
Research Division</strong> So as we're trying to think about the rate increases that you're getting in excess of loss cost trend into future quarters the question I am trying to figure out is does this recent development cause you to be more conservative in how you think your future quarters loss picks will be or did you -- or I'm saying did you nip a few things in the bud that were irritants and now the progress will continue when we think about the future? Well I think it was more as you said it in the last half of your sentence than the first.
And in particular in the second quarter you're going to get not only the effect of what we're picking for the rest of the year based on this additional information but you are going to get a little bit of a negative catch-up effect as we apply it to the first quarter as well.
So the way I would think about it is that the first quarter probably looked better than it was and because of the catch-up the second quarter looks slightly worse than it is.
But in total again -- and you have to remember when we're doing this we're dealing with large accounts with high volatility and fairly small data sets so we have to have a very long view and that's why we always emphasize looking at this on a 1 quarter is not how we think and not the right way to do it and not how our mechanics work.
Looking at it over time it is the right way.
And that's why as we look at it over time we're very pleased with the continuing progress.
Research Division</strong> And unrelated the rising interest rates does that give you a potential opportunity to revisit the potential sale of the life reinsurance business? Josh it's Pete.
I mean we're always looking at that.
So I wouldn't say it gives us a chance to revisit it we're constantly looking at that would be my first comment.
The second one as I said a little earlier the risk-free rates move up of the rates are probably meaningful than a drop in the spread which we have not seen yet.
But that would be a bigger driver towards what we would see a more value-driven sale.
So we look at it all the time and 2 the move up is really not going to be a driver.
And I would only offer 1 other point of emphasis and that is that we remain focused on it in an economic way I mean we're focused not on all the different accounting elements we're focused on the economics of it and we have a business that's in a run-on -- runoff that is performing according to expectations.
We don't feel any sense of pressure on this we just realized that if there were a better owner we'd be happy to work something out but at this point we're the best owner.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions here.
First Pete I'm just curious the decline in investment income this quarter seemed a little more than I had expected.
Was any of that due to the sale of the RMBS securities just having a higher investment yield? Is that something we may see going forward also when you sell off some blocks like that? So certainly when we sell off those blocks which would have been higher-yielding blocks you would see a potential drop.
But those are not huge amounts relative to our asset portfolio.
And to be honest the net investment income that came in for the quarter was pretty much exactly what at least we thought it was going to be so there was nothing unusual going on.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then Greg quick question.
On the professional liability business was the decline in quarter-to-quarter all related to business you said that you're going to be running off? Well I'm sorry say that again...
Research Division</strong> The gross written premium was down in Professional Liability's year-over-year.
Was that related to some of the business you said you're going to get out of.
Yes that international source that's the main driver it's a little bit lower as you execute on restructuring and repricing some of the U.S.
Professional book that will always result in a little bit of breakage but the main driver is the beginning of that process absolutely.
Research Division</strong> And then on the quota share just quickly was there any unwritten premium that went in with that that would have had an impact on the net written premium? No it's a risk-attaching quota share.
So there's nothing it's not a straight quote share of the whole book just to add a little more color it's a session on just our larger limit policy.
So not only is it not a straight quota share of the whole thing but it's also a risk-attaching basis.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And therefore we shouldn't expect it to much have of an impact on your policy acquisition ratio? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Greg Locraft with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on Josh's question earlier on the pick going a little higher.
So that -- have you given some color on which lines this is occurring in? Is it the international professional liability book or what lines of business are you changing the picks on? So we're picking it up in 4 key places.
One is indeed the international solicitors.
The other as I touched upon in my comments the U.S.
professional liability for non clash we continue to be -- as you know we reserve our clash -- our professional liability book in the clash and non clash component as we talked about in our 10-Q.
And so this is the non clash piece that reflects some of this changing activity small on our property book of business related to energy and the last piece is on our international marine cargo book were the 4 places.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just again to clarify it was an extra 200 basis points so really spread in the second quarter but we should think of that as kind of a 6-month 100 basis points per quarter is that correct? Yes.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just the rhythm of the way you go back in and look at reserves means we won't revisit this until the end of the year.
So this will stay with us for the back half of the year as well? On long-tail lines that's correct.
On short-tail lines we do pick up activity quarter-to-quarter each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the way I'm thinking about it is just that the picks are going higher okay I guess for the long-tail books the picks will be higher for the next couple of quarters and then we'll see what the world brings.
So we should be taking kind of the new accident year loss ratio and trending it forward for 2 more quarters I think to be conservative right? The 64 4 yes.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Was there any reserves [indiscernible] for the Costa Concordia loss in the second quarter? I'm sorry that was for the Costa Concordia loss? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So overall for the company the answer is no.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there any update on -- specifically on Professional Liability claim cost inflation that you can share? I'm sorry claim cost inflation? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No we haven't seen -- no in terms of -- we've just -- as I mentioned it's been -- the severity actually has been lower it's the frequency that's been up higher than we would've thought.
So no we haven't seen anything particularly there disturbing.
Our next question comes from Michael Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a little bit more color on the Stone Point arrangement? I'm just trying to understand how is that structured and is it -- would you be putting business into that that you're currently writing or is that -- is the profile of the business that you plan whether you would like to write in there different in some characteristic or quality than what you're writing currently on your own balance sheet? Well I'm going to ask Pete to give some of the detail in just a second but I just want to emphasize this is such an exciting development for us.
In the final analysis we were one of the pioneers of side TARs and other forms of applying our underwriting to additional capital providers and we've watched the latest flurry of activity with real interest.
We know a lot about it we've thought a lot about it and we had a view that for -- with the kinds of profits we were already delivering to our shareholders that we had to come up with just the right way to enter it that we didn't have to rush in and do anything silly.
And as a result we focused on the fact that if we want to create something that could last over time to be substantial we would have to have a partner that really understood the elements of stewardship of other people's money of all of the various complexities that go with it and that really understood what was going on in the insurance marketplaces so that we can have a realistic partnership one that we thought could endure.
And in Stone Point someone we've worked with on many ventures over many years we found really we think the ideal partnership.
And again as I have said on an overall way of looking at it's about marrying our underwriting expertise and making sure in this rapidly evolving entry of additional forms of capital that we are able to serve our clients with innovation that we're able to continue to see our underwriters being able to reward our shareholders with their performance.
We see it as a neat combination so I just wanted to make sure to give a little more background but Pete talk about the various initial activities.
Just a couple of comments.
As we said in the release it's 75% XL 25% Stone Point.
The initial plans would be that one of the funds the activities would be in the insurance-linked securities space.
There will be a collateralized reinsurance vehicle also put in place.
We're also talking about some other things that would be unique to XL.
One of the things that we're really pleased with teaming up with Stone Point is that we think having that asset management expertise and the real deep reinsurance property CAT expertise is going to enable us to have a broader width of product than maybe what you've seen -- we've seen out there.
And as Mike said earlier we view that pretty much as the beginning of this relationship it could go in a number of different ways and again the benefit of teaming up with Stone Point is you have a natural partner as this thing potentially morphs outside of property CAT reinsurance.
Research Division</strong> I mean would you expect that over time that your 75% stake would fall as other outside investors are recruited and join the program or do you expect to retain that level of ownership no matter how large it might grow? Right.
So Mike the plan is that we would keep the 75% because that's the investment in the top company right? So that's the -- that the asset management company is the one that we would own 75% they would own 25%.
The plan would be to raise third-party money in the funds underneath that asset management company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I see.
And in terms of the profile of the business that this entity would write I mean in terms of is it going to be more skewed towards high-layer property CAT is it -- at its inception or do you anticipate kind of pushing the innovation through there and trying to move outside of just kind of that starting point? It's Jamie.
I think that there'll be a variety of products introduced in the vehicle.
Some that have been traditionally associated with XL and others such as retrocessional business where we have not been considered historically a large player.
And in addition as Mike and Pete both mentioned ILS fund would also be involved.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one last one on the sequential loss ratio conversation.
Looks like your marine book shrank and it seems like you maybe took some actions there.
I mean if you back out the -- maybe underwriting actions that were associated with the premium declines there can you sort of talk about what the sequential change might have been overall? Well at least on the reinsurance side you're correct it has dropped substantially.
There's 2 particular specific reasons for that.
One is we used to have outlets in both North America and in the London market to write marine reinsurance.
We closed the U.S.
operation and have focused our attention on the London market.
And in addition we've simply reduced our overall marine activity because we've just felt for a long long time that we were better off deploying our NatCAT capacity particularly U.S.
exposed with our direct property CAT book and not the marine book.
Yes and on the insurance side the Marine premium flows into the specialty line and so -- but just for color it's down just a couple of million dollars.
Our next question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Janney Capital Markets.
Quickly first I noticed that the equity in the Life segment declined pretty substantially in the quarter.
I imagine that is mainly from bond marks but just wanted to see if there's anything in there that brought down the equity? The answer Ryan is that it's in essence from those bond marks.
I mean one way to think about it we do about -- we do a fair amount of disclosure at the bottom so that you can look at it both on a GAAP basis and on a regulatory basis but those marks clearly on a U.S.
GAAP basis drove the lion's share of it.
The only other thing that we did was we did dividend some money out of the Life operation that also drove that.
And what was the size of that? About $300 million.
Great.
And then just my second question is last quarter I guess in the Insurance segment you guys noted that kind of 17 out of your 22 insurance lines were getting rate in excess of the loss cost trend.
Just wanted to see where that stands now and maybe I guess as you guys look at the re-estimation of some of the lines as well just want to see how attractive that segment is? Yes it's 18 out of 22 and it's roughly 85% of the premium.
And the next question comes from Josh Stirling with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Greg a question for you.
Everybody is trying to figure out where you are in your sort of bridge to getting to a below 90s combined so I thought first I'd just ask is your year-to-date sort of 96% all-in should we think about that as sort of a reasonable give or take number for where you think a normalized performance ought to be? And then second also for Greg can you help us with 3% pricing should we look at your growth initiatives as the primary drivers to get your combined ratio down to 90% or below from expense leverage and loss ratio mix or are there some big initiatives in re-underwriting that we should still be thinking about? Right.
So the 96 is a number that you can observe and it's a reasonable estimate for the book in its current state.
To get to the 90% we've got to move a number of letters.
Rate is one piece of it.
I talked about that.
Mix is the other big one is we're shifting away from businesses that are less profitable into more profitable businesses.
We've got about some underwriting actions identified as well.
And then Pete remarked upon it is operating leverage as well.
All 4 of those drivers are going to bring us towards that 90 I'm not going to try and break it down into numbers piece by piece but those are the 4 big drivers.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Jamie I wonder if I -- I was very interested to see your guys' growth in the whole account business.
I'm wondering if you could just give us some color on that sort of the opportunity and what sort of customer segments and underlying lines and maybe just some basics of is it proportional excess of loss and sort of what you think the risk return looks like? That book of business Josh is one that we've been playing in going back to the acquisition of Brockbank in the mid-90s.
It's a very opportunistic play.
They're basically whole -- you think about them as whole account quota shares from specific Lloyd's syndicates.
We typically -- and one of the reasons you may have seen the increase in our ceded premium on the reinsurance side is because we piggyback on the outwards reinsurance strategy of our clients.
In this particular case we wrote one large new whole account of a syndicate that we've known for quite some time.
It is not a specialist syndicate.
It's a broad syndicate that we've known for a long time and they write a variety of lines of business.
It's a book of business that we would not hesitate to shrink dramatically as we have in the past.
As I mentioned it's very very opportunistic in texture.
And our final question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Most are asked and answered.
But just on pricing I wanted to clarify something that's been talked about in previous calls and that's that I think you said in the commentary that the U.S.
lines kind of broadly speaking this is more reinsurance we're seeing a slowdown but is Europe still kind of catching up because it was slower to firm in the first place? Yes Randy that's definitely the case.
The North American property business has gotten a lot of rate over the last 12 to 18 months.
And we're still positive.
We're at 3 point -- we're just 4% in the second quarter.
So we're still -- it's just lower than it's been over the last couple of quarters.
And the international property while the volumes aren't as big in Q2 as they are in Q1 has picked up to 3.5%.
It's nothing I'm counting on I'm very -- our guys are driving towards more because we need more but it's certainly a positive sign and that's finally starting to pick up in kind of almost like a 12-month lag from where North America was.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your European business is a little less sensitive to this kind of second derivative argument on pricing? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my other question is a follow-up actually on the Costa Concordia question.
I just wanted to clarify something.
I've read a little bit about the mitigation effort for that being quite a bit more complicated.
So is it that you don't have -- you didn't have development in the quarter or you no longer have exposure to how those containment remediation costs might increase? So we didn't have -- and I'll turn it over to Susan if you want to make a comment.
We did not have development in the quarter both because of where we had our pick going in as well as some reinsurances that we had in place.
Susan you want to give some more color? Yes I would just add to that Pete that we didn't have any impact in the quarter.
And even as we look at potential further deterioration from the latest estimates that have come out of the P&amp;I club which are about the $1.17 billion if that were even to go to $1.5 billion we'd have potential deterioration of $5 million.
So it's not a material exposure for us even if there is further development on that loss.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers.
Great.
Listen we really appreciate the questions.
We know it's a hectic earnings season with a couple of other companies that have come out tonight.
We know that you have a lot on your minds.
We remain very pleased with the progress we've been making at XL.
We can see the underlying trends for our business is moving in the right way and we're going to be very driven as we've told you many times to execute execute and execute some more.
So we look forward to being with you again in another quarter's time and thank you for the attention tonight.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.