Good afternoon.
My name is Shirly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group plc Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to XL Group's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We post to our website several documents including our quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this evening you'll hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I’d like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Tonight we are pleased to share with you XL's third quarter 2013 results a quarter in which we grew our book value per share increase gross premiums written continued to see the benefits of an improving Insurance segment and had another solid Reinsurance result.
At the same time as we'll discuss this quarter and this year to date remind us that XL is a work in progress and tonight we have both work and progress to talk about.
The progress we have made is substantial.
We want to give you a thorough update on what we had seen year-to-date and why these results continue to bolster our confidence.
Equally we want to describe our current work and why we are confident that we will reach our goals of an attractive ROE driven by much improved combined ratio in our Insurance segment.
And we believe we are on our way there at a faster clip than this quarter might indicate.
So first a few thoughts on the quarter itself.
While I opened with a list of positives from the quarter and should add to that list a positive prior year development you would also have seen from our release that we experienced a degree of CAT and individual loss activity that contributed to a higher quarterly accident year loss ratio in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
Given our diverse lines of business and the complex risk we write one or more businesses will be expected to from time to time produce unusual levels of loss as we saw in this quarter.
When this happens there are a few series of questions we ask.
Is this an unusual event or indicative of a trend? Do we have the right leaders in place? Are the underwriters taking the kinds of risk we want? And are they in line with that business' strategy and the group's strategy? In our review this quarter in the main we like the answers to these questions.
These losses do not change our views.
In fact it is helpful to provide some additional perspective.
This quarter reminds me a little bit of the fourth quarter of 2011 another quarter where we had collection of sizable losses that impacted our results.
In that quarter our reviews of the loss-making businesses indicated a number of needs for improvement that caused a huge amount of revised work.
Not so this time.
And in that quarter we reported a 108% combined ratio.
This quarter with a similar set of issues we made an underwriting profit.
Today is remarkably different and it is a direct result of the progress we are making.
So we like the underlying trend of where we are year-to-date.
We are on track.
So the specifics.
The Insurance segment's year-to-date accident year combined ratio ex-CAT of 96.1% and the loss ratio ex-CAT of 65.6% are the best results on the same basis since 2007.
Reinsurance generated a combined ratio of 80.1% ahead of the 80.5% at the same period last year.
And our year-to-date overall P&amp;C combined ratio of 92.2% is a 0.5 point better than at the same time a year ago.
Greg and Jamie will talk in more detail about these segment results in a moment.
Now about our continuing work.
Our efforts to remix our businesses our underwriting actions our investments and talents and technology and our drive for rate are the reasons for our greater resilience.
Starts with business mix.
It is a significant reason that we are now more resilient in such quarters.
To give you some indication of the benefits of this remixing of our businesses we are now able to rely on a far broader set of profitable and improving businesses.
For example more than 70% of our insurance businesses are now showing better loss ratios through 9 months than in the same period a year ago.
We believe that mix will continue to improve as we invest in higher return businesses and this will be accelerated by the capital allocation process embedded in our 2014 budgeting.
Another important driver of our improving performance is our relentless effort to have the right underwriting talent and give them the tool they need to succeed.
For example our global underwriting platforms and enhanced data systems will increasingly allow our teams to determine where the best and most profitable opportunities lie.
And we expect the operating leverage lift from these investments to continue to earn out over the immediate future.
Of course market conditions drive improvement as well.
And while we are not relying on rate to drive our loss ratio goals we are pleased that our rate achievement is exceeding loss cost trends.
Broadly the third quarter was very much in line with what we've been seeing: positive pricing trends outpacing claims trends in most of our businesses and an overall insurance rate increase of 3.4%.
Lastly we are very pleased that our progress continues to be noticed by external audiences including today's announcement that S&amp;P has upgraded our financial strength rating to A+ at the same time affirming our ERM opinion of strong.
Also this week our issuer credit rating was put on positive outlook by A.M.
Best.
So as I said at the beginning and as we have shared with you before as we keep working to meet our goals our progress is confirmed by our substantial year-to-year improvement.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete to detail our financial results.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the third quarter was $155 million or $0.53 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $188 million in 2012 or $0.61 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $136 million or $0.47 per share.
Annualized operating return on ordinary shareholders' equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments were 6.8% for the quarter and 9.6% for the year-to-date.
And fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share increased in the quarter by 1.6% to $32.06 at September 30.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 95% or 2.8 points higher than the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 100.1% higher by 5.4 points.
These increases were mostly due to higher natural catastrophe losses in the quarter.
These included a series of hailstorms in Germany in late 2013 for $59 million which is consistent with our pre-announcement Hurricane Ingrid in Mexico and flooding in Colorado and Toronto.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $85 million or 5.5 loss ratio points which was stood approximately $16 million and $69 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segments respectively.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2012 totaled $32 million or 2.4 loss ratio points.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $79 million or 5.1 loss ratio points compared to $37 million and 2.5 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2012.
This reflects favorable development of $3 million and $76 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments.
As we have outlined on previous earnings calls the third quarter is what we refer to as an actual versus expected quarter for our entire Insurance segment and our U.S.
Reinsurance business.
Our operating expenses were marginally higher than the prior year quarter and the second quarter of 2013 largely due to added headcount from a selected expansion in the Insurance segment business and increased infrastructure costs partially offset by ongoing efficiency efforts and lower variable compensation accruals.
As we've indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels for 2013 will be modestly higher than 2012 but at levels which show continued improvement in overall operating expense leverage.
Turning to investment performance.
Our investment portfolio delivered a positive total return of 1% in the quarter.
We had a positive mark-to-market of $113 million as spread narrowing was partially offset by small interest rate increases on our key currency jurisdictions.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $800 million at the end of the third quarter.
Our P&amp;C fixed income duration decreased by 0.1 years to 3.6 years.
Net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio in the quarter was $166 million matching the prior year quarter.
As a reminder there were a number of unusual items in the net investment income in the prior year quarter that drove it lower.
The P&amp;C gross book yield at the end of September was 2.7%.
We estimate that approximately $3.4 billion of P&amp;C assets with an average gross book yield of 3% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q3 on our P&amp;C portfolio of 2.1%.
The P&amp;C new money rate increased by 50 basis points this quarter compared to Q2 due to principally higher rates.
However net investment income remains under pressure but the recent increase in yields if sustained will help to offset the impact of these maturities and paydowns.
Our net income from investment affiliates was $15 million up $6 million in the prior year quarter.
Target returns and private investments were modest challenged by the volatile capital markets while we had a solid quarter from our investment managers including a partial sale of one of our stakes.
We also had positive returns from our other strategic affiliates.
As a reminder we report these items on either a 1- or 3-month lag basis.
During the quarter we have lowered our effective tax rate for the year 2 percentage points to approximately 10% on operating income.
This is based on the year-to-date and estimated distributions of profit and losses to jurisdictions within our global network of companies for the remainder of the year.
With respect to capital management we continue to execute on our share buyback program.
And during the third quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $150 million in an average price of $31.03 per share as we continue to view such purchases as an effective use of surplus capital.
At the end of the quarter $425 million remained available for purchase under our previously announced $850 million share buyback program.
I'll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I'll cover the results for the segment give a brief update on talent and finish with some insight on our continued progress.
Beginning with the results.
On an accident quarter basis excluding CATs our combined ratio of 97.8% was 3.1 points higher than the prior year driven by the accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio of 68% which is 5.4 points higher than prior year quarter.
This was driven by 2 large losses and some smaller losses impacting our aerospace and marine businesses though this activity was offset by improvements of 1.5 points in our operating leverage and a 0.5 point in acquisition expenses.
We look at the results over a longer horizon which we believe is the appropriate way to view our portfolio we see strong evidence of our progress.
Our year-to-date accident year ex-CAT combined ratio was 96.1% or 3.2 points better than the same period in 2012.
The loss ratio improved by nearly 1 point driven by better loss experienced at 70% of our businesses.
And as Mike mentioned 96.1% is the best 9-month accident year ex-CAT combined ratio for the segment in more than 5 years.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $101 million or 9% in the quarter and by $424 million or 11% year-to-date.
Growth was particularly strong in North America where premiums grew 15% in the quarter and 23% year-to-date.
In the quarter our North American Construction Property Primary and Excess Casualty business experienced the largest percentage growth.
Our international P&amp;C and professional books each grew roughly 8% in the quarter and year-to-date.
Turning to talent.
We continue to strengthen our teams throughout the segment.
In this quarter we recruited Denise Balan to lead our crisis management team in the U.S.
We added Jeff Abramson to head up trade receivable insurance which is part of our Political Risk &amp; Trade Credit business.
And Thierry Daucourt joined as Chief Operating Officer for International P&amp;C just to name a few.
Over the past 2 years we've replaced 1/3 of our business leaders while adding 61 underwriters and we're now seeing this enhanced underwriting capability reflected in the profitable growth of a majority of our businesses.
Let's dig deeper on our progress.
The North American business group had a combined ratio of 87% on a year-to-date basis with all but one business improving by 5 points or more year-over-year.
North American Construction a new business just 3 years ago is now a profitable $200 million gross premium written business in 2013.
And several of the underwriting actions we have taken over the past 12 to 24 months terminating unprofitable programs increasing rates reducing line sizes and optimizing business mix continue to earn through.
Across this segment we are pulling on 4 levers to improve our combined ratio: mix of business underwriting actions operating leverage and rate.
In terms of business mix building a more profitable portfolio can be achieved in 2 dimensions.
First you can shift your gross portfolio to more profitable lines.
Our high and medium-return businesses grew $365 million or 12% year-to-date while the lower-margin businesses grew just $47 million or 6%.
The small growth in the lower-margin businesses is attributed to being in the middle of the re-underwriting process.
Effectively we are finishing the reduction of the underperforming parts of the book and are partway through growing the more profitable segments.
And we continually evaluate this mix including the build-out of new businesses which are growing 21% year-to-date.
The other dimension is ceded reinsurance.
And here we are benefiting from the improved terms and conditions that Jamie has noted in past quarters.
Ceding commissions on pro rata premiums continue to improve and year-to-date we ceded $81 million more premium on quota share placements.
Here we also benefit from decreasing excessive loss rates on short-tail lines.
Our underwriting talent attracts reinsurers who are looking to align themselves with the best underwriters and we see this continuing into 2014 and beyond.
Underwriting actions are part of any well-run underwriting operation.
We've delivered a roughly 1 point loss ratio improvement year-to-date in 2013 from a number of underwriting actions across the segment and we have identified and are executing on another set of actions for the fourth quarter and into 2014.
We continue to demonstrate improved operating leverage with a 2 point lower expense ratio year-to-date.
While this rate of improvement may slow as Mike noted we continue to have investments coming to fruition that will further improve our underwriting efficiency.
On rate year-to-date we've delivered rates 1.5 points above trend.
And while we see short-tail lines in North America slowing our diversified portfolio allows us to benefit from rate increases in medium and longer-tail lines in other geographies.
82% of our Insurance businesses achieved positive rate in the quarter 77% of our businesses achieved rate in excess of loss trends and 75% achieved rate-on-rate.
Our International P&amp;C books showed the most strength with rate increases of 6%.
Our North American P&amp;C businesses had another solid quarter with rate increases of 4%.
Global Professional had rate increases of 3% led by our continued push for rate in our U.S.
portfolio and our Specialty businesses were essentially flat in the quarter.
How these levers will drive our improvement will be influenced by market conditions but we see rate and operational leverage each contributing roughly 20% of the needed improvement and portfolio mix and underwriting actions each delivering approximately 30% of the lift.
Finally having just returned from large industry gatherings over the past month I can tell you that the excitement and support for XL for both our clients and brokers is as strong as ever and evident in our growth.
Of course you can verify our momentum with the market.
This momentum coupled with the continued improvement in our underwriting profits only increases our confidence in achieving our longer-term goal.
The urgency is there.
And with a team we have in place we are committed to achieving a combined ratio of 90% or better.
And now to Jamie to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thank you Greg and good evening.
XL Re had a very good quarter from a calendar year perspective with a combined ratio of 85.4% producing an underwriting profit of $65 million.
This compares to a combined ratio of 86% in the third quarter of 2012.
Our result was positively impacted by $76 million of prior year reserve releases which compares to $35.7 million a year ago.
Excluding the impact of both prior year reserve releases and CAT losses the segment had a combined ratio of 86.8% which compares to the 88% achieved in the third quarter of 2012.
With respect to the reserve releases we benefited from a significant increase in releases from our international operations of $39 million compared to $19 million a year ago.
Overall we would again stress our prudent reserving philosophy.
Our releases were concentrated on short-tail lines with 70% coming from our property and marine portfolios.
Our accident year combined was 102.4% compared to 93.4% in the third quarter of 2012.
While disappointing this was specifically driven by catastrophe losses none of which were outsized given our market presence in the impacted geographies.
The most significant losses impacting the quarter were the German hailstorms for $42.6 million the floods in Mexico driven by Hurricane Ingrid for $10 million and further development of $8.8 million from the flooding in Calgary earlier this year all net of reinstatement premiums.
Turning to top line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $350 million a 16% reduction from the third quarter of last year.
The reductions were largely driven by reduced crop premiums from our North American operations.
You will recall 2012 was our last year of involvement in the Heartland Crop program.
And the year-on-year drop in written premium from this cancellation was $45 million which accounts for 2/3 of the overall reduction.
The remainder comes principally from a $21 million reduction in our Latin American portfolio due to competitive market conditions.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has generated an outstanding combined ratio of 80.1% just about identical to the 80.5% in 2012.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases and CAT losses our combined ratio was 83% which compares favorably to the 86.6% generated a year ago.
With respect to the top line our gross year-to-date premiums has reduced by 6.5% to $1.73 billion with Heartland representing almost 50% of the drop.
The remainder results from a combination of competitive market conditions and client retention themes we have discussed regularly in the past.
Turning to market conditions.
We spoke of our midyear renewals on last quarter's call and I would again describe them as satisfactory.
We have attended a number of industry conferences over the last 6 weeks and there's considerable speculation about the coming renewal season in the property CAT space with abundant capacity available from traditional and nontraditional sources and what appears to be a benign Atlantic hurricane season potentially having some downward pressure on U.S.
pricing.
With the level of catastrophe activity in Europe through the spring and summer we see no compelling reason for reductions in that market.
Going into renewals.
We are positioned well to deal with the market environment however it plays out.
We have a terrific book of business a world-class stable of underwriters and deep relationships with our customers and brokers.
For example 60% of the premiums in our U.S.
CAT portfolio comes from seeding companies we began doing business with in our first year of operations over 20 years ago.
It's a heavily syndicated market and while no one can say with certainty what year end will bring I am confident we will emerge with a very attractive portfolio of business.
On the long-tail side you'll notice in our financial supplement an increase in written premium this quarter over a year ago.
While market conditions remain very competitive in this area we did write a significant new account in North America for $7 million.
The rest of the increase was due to timing differences and the booking of premium and increase shares again in our North American business unit.
Nevertheless we remain broadly concerned about the apparent disconnect between an improving rate environment and the insurance sector and very competitive terms and conditions being offered in the Reinsurance market.
With that I'll return to David for Q&amp;A.
And Shirley can you please open the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is the second quarter in a row where we've had some issues in the Insurance segment.
This quarter it was some attrition -- some elevated attritional losses last quarter was adjusting a loss pick.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of do we think we have those issues out of the way? Or is there anything else that causes you any concern on the horizon? Thanks Jay.
It's Greg.
As we discussed last quarter we increased the loss picks in a few businesses and therefore we had 2-quarter earned impact in the second quarter.
So we normalize for that change right? Our first and second quarter accident year ex-CAT loss ratios were virtually identical at 64.5%.
So for me the third quarter is the first quarter this year where we had some noise right? Let me discuss some of the drivers.
I noted that we had 2 losses above our large loss threshold of $10 million as well as loss activity in our aerospace and marine businesses right? In marine we have and continued to underwrite in the competitive market and I'm not surprised to see loss activity and this was essentially in our Holland cargo lines this quarter.
As Mike said we look at the leadership underwriting and strategy when we have a higher loss ratio quarter.
And in marine we've recently changed the dealership and have confidence in our underwriting go-forward strategy for the business.
On the aerospace side it's been a very strong performer for us over the past few years and this quarter is purely an aberration with regard to loss frequency.
The particular portfolio where the business came from is running in the low- to mid-50s.
This was just an unfortunate quarter tick-up in loss frequency.
We have not observed anything in the losses the underwriting and it challenges our ability to continue to make money in aerospace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So overall within Insurance you're still committed to that 90% normalized combined ratio probably not 2014 but maybe in '15? I won't commit to the time but absolutely committed to that goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for Pete on investment income it actually ticked up on a linked quarter basis $148 million.
That was better than we thought.
Were there any onetimers in there? Or should we be thinking about that now as a run rate before we adjust for the higher yielding securities coming off the book? No there wasn't -- Jay it's Pete.
There wasn't anything in the quarter that at all moved that investment income around.
Very very much a runway.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the net income from investment affiliates $5 million this quarter down pretty significantly quarter-over-quarter as well as year-over-year.
What was the driver there? I wouldn't say that there's any specific driver.
You're going to get a lot of movement quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter.
I mean we look at this one it's a little similar to where we look at Insurance right? We look at this on a -- probably on a year basis annual basis.
And on that we're very happy with the returns that we've been seeing.
Research Division</strong> If you were to think about a normalized return level on that asset base what would it be and what would that imply on net income? Yes we would say -- let's call it 8%.
Research Division</strong> On an asset base of...
On the asset base of -- depending on which one you want.
So we have 2 or 3 different asset bases that we could use right? Do you want the old? Do you want the -- which one do want Jay? Research Division</strong> Well I'm looking at the investment affiliates so I guess it would be the sum of the alternative funds plus the private investment fund affiliates.
Right.
So we have in the affiliates right we've got about $1.4 billion invested in that.
That would include the strategic affiliates right? So if you back that out it's about $1.2 billion right? And we disclosed in the financial supplement and I know you haven't had a lot of time to go through it we disclosed what the return's on that.
And if you go back and look over the year I think you'd find it to be pretty healthy.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes first one for Jamie.
Jamie just curious how much of your 1:1 CAT renewals is Europe or international versus the U.S.? I don't have the precise breakdown Brian but I will tell you virtually 100% of the European CAT renewals are 1:1.
I mean it's a very heavily concentrated 1:1 business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's the one you said you should expect that pricing is going to be pretty stable maybe up a little bit given the CAT activity? Certainly the impacted program should be up.
I don't know what the overall market will do but my expectation is that will have an overall flat risk-adjusted.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I'm just curious on the increase in the pro rata on the insurance book.
What impact is that having on your combined ratio? Seeing it was 50 100 basis point in the expense ratio is there any way we can quantify that? And is it...
It would be roughly 50 basis points in '13 year-to-date on the expense ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then basically the same with respect to the other ratios? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last one just curious you lost a fairly senior person recently.
It was announced in your North America business.
Do you expect any potential top line impact from that loss? No.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back and ask a few more questions following up on Jay's.
If you look at 2012 versus 2011 the company reported about 650 basis points of margin improvement on the Insurance business ex-CATs and x development.
So far 2 3 quarters if we look at it on a trailing 12-month basis your loss ratio is up by about 1.8% compared to the year-ago period.
You're continuing to get rate increases I assume and this is spread over 12 months.
Do you think that it's possible you're a little aggressive initially in booking 2012? So Josh let me walk you through the trailing 12-month figures that I have and maybe we need to true them up a bit.
When I look at -- I find that this longer time period is really necessary for us so I'm thrilled that you're bringing it up.
If you go back to the financial supplement the trailing 12 months ending September 30 I have an accident year ex-CAT combined ratio of 104.8% in 2010 100.8% in 2011 and 96.5% in 2013.
And look at the loss ratio I've got 74% 67.9% and 66.1%.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] obviously you're right.
That's right.
Yes yes.
So it's -- we like that trend that we see from '10 -- from '10 to '11 to '12 to '13.
But I can't forecast where it would be in '14 but I like the way that looks.
Research Division</strong> Well I mean you might have an idea.
I mean you've rewritten probably 50% of the business is going to be earning through in 2014.
Do you have some sense there? Right.
this is Mike.
We've made it a point and we're going to have to continue to make it a point not to forecast what's going to happen.
Generally in the first quarter next year we'll try to give you some view of how we're thinking about buybacks some view of expenses because we know those are harder for anyone else to figure out.
But I just -- but on terms of loss ratios and combined ratios we just don't forecast that.
But I will tell you the trends that Greg just described of essentially a 4-point improvement year-over-year 2 years in a row 4 points each year is the kind of progress we expect.
Whether that will be the exact amount of lift as you get closer to your target each point becomes a bit more of a scramble.
But we're awfully pleased with our progress the momentum it gives us.
Research Division</strong> Did you have a sense of what you think you're getting in terms of rate right now compared with loss costs? Yes as Greg mentioned a moment ago we're getting about 1 point to 1.5 point better in rate than we are observing in loss costs.
Research Division</strong> And that goes to reinsurance also? We don't measure things the same way.
We measure rate adequacy overall.
And clearly our rate adequacy level in the entire portfolio has come down principally because of downward pressure in the CAT market.
Research Division</strong> It's not your fault.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Greg I wondered if I could follow up a bit more and get a bit more color on some of the reunderwriting actions you guys are doing.
I think one of the things you said in the intro remarks was that something like 30% of your businesses are still performing below target.
A couple of questions there are if these are newer businesses among the things you've been investing in or if they're older ones? And sort of what are some examples of the things you guys are doing today and the sort of year-end and into '14 in this businesses on the underwriting initiative side? And wondering when some of these things really started? Sure.
Josh let me step back and give you -- as I look at the portfolio today and factor in the rate and the underwriting actions you're asking about that we've completed and playing.
I view the portfolio in 3 parts: the business that's performing at target the business that's within 5% of target and the business more than 5% away from target.
Over the last 12 to 18 months we've moved the percentage of the book that's at target from 25% to 50%.
So I would say we're seeing the actions come through already.
Just that middle part is about the same at that business within 5% of target is at 30%.
And what's happening there of course is businesses are moving out of that into above target and coming up from well away from target.
And the businesses that are more than 5% from our target have shrunk from 40% to about 20%.
It's important to remember that in that book in the piece is our new businesses that are coming online because they're going to be expense drags for the first year as they get up online.
The underwriting actions we'd have to spend -- we have to spend half an hour going through all of them.
It's the actuarial team and the underwriting teams have them but the effect will fall in that category I talked about: there's pricing; there's tiering by industry by geography; there's in -- limit management; there's attachment and deductible management; and just a whole host of them that move across the book and drive that results.
So they're coming in already and they're going to keep coming because that's the relentless exercise you have to do to be an excellent underwriting operation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to simplify the work of sort of real people who specialize in this but for all of our benefits would you characterize them sort of execution on a lot of sort of detailed fronts that all of which have to perform? Or are there still sort of major levers which you guys are pulling where we can look at this as perhaps sort of simpler to bank on going forward? Yes this is Mike.
The simple stuff was done a while ago.
I mean the reality is with the book improving at the rate it's improving we're down to a whole bunch of little decisions whether it has to do with limit strategy reinsurance strategy particular classes that we identify with some kind of a temperature that kind of thing.
And as a result we believe that we're down to a narrower box of business that we can really get at that granular level and just keep driving it out of our system.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well keep up -- we'll keep waiting for all the hard work to pay out.
I appreciate that and I understand the view at the same time when I look it year-over-year-over-year I'm very excited about the rate of progress.
Your next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is do you have a number for the higher losses in the primary Insurance segment that negatively impact the quarter? So Vinay so on the aerospace and marine piece it's roughly $14 million for marine $16 million for aerospace and that's the main chunks on those pieces.
The other 2 large losses as you know we don't talk about large losses because they'd be in our industry events that reflect a specific insurance.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's helpful.
The second question is on -- could you give us an update on the 4 lines of business last quarter where you trued up the losses please? Yes I can.
They're -- everything is unchanged both those ones that we trued up and the rest of the book other than this activity we talked about are unchanged from last quarter.
Research Division</strong> So just to or restate this this quarter was really noise from large loss activity and it's got nothing to do with what happened the last quarter correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And just a numbers question here.
The tax rate you released to 10% for year to date.
Should we expect the 10% also for the fourth quarter? Plus what's a normalized tax rate sort of looking into next year? So Vinay it's Pete.
The -- on the tax rates we went into this year planning about a 12% tax rate and as I said in my comments we took that down to 10% when we looked at where the taxes were.
Well the gains and losses were coming in in our jurisdiction by jurisdiction and that included looking to Q4.
I don't see anything different in Q4 versus what happened to date.
It is hard to tell because it will depend somewhat on loss activity.
But no I don't expect anything different.
So I would if I was trying to help you think through that I don't know why we've moved it from 10% but then again I don't think 10% is the run rate on a sort of beginning-of-the-year basis.
Your next question comes from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First Mike in the prepared remarks you mentioned recent upgrades by the rating agencies.
Just curious if those upgrades would impact the rating agencies or XL's views of excess capital levels or maybe other things? Yes so let me -- why don't we cover 2 things really quick.
Number one our view of the capital levels required and then let me ask Greg and Jamie to both comment on the way in which this may trade some additional opportunities for us which were -- first of all you have to know that given all that we've been through since the time of these downgrades this is an incredibly gratifying day for us.
And we feel an enormous validation of the hard work of thousands of people around the world.
So I hope all the XL colleagues who are listening in right now are feeling especially proud of all the effort of these past years.
In terms of capital the fact is that the -- we derive our capital from an absolute level of buffer that we want to maintain and then we add to that absolute level an additional buffer if you will that is driven by what we would call qualitative factors.
Among the qualitative factors that we use to evaluate the right level of buffer to the buffer would be where our rating is.
And so having our rating improve will likely cause us to reduce somewhat that buffer to the buffer.
I wouldn't however start cashing checks from share repurchase increases.
We've been helpfully repurchasing shares throughout the year as Pete indicated and I don't think it's the kind of number that would have a meaningful impact on repurchases.
Of course we'll give more color on repurchase for '14 when we get there.
But it's a positive but it's not a huge number as we look at it initially.
The board of course makes that judgment ultimately based on our advice and we won't have a chance to discuss that with -- until we discuss the budget in December.
So that's how we look at the capital bit.
Jamie? Yes I mean think broadly it's certainly going to help us as we trade.
It's an endorsement of the strength of our balance sheet and all of our partners will recognize that.
I think specifically however it is certainly going to help us in long-tail lines where there are certain ceding companies that will not trade historically with reinsurers rated below certain levels.
And I think that will certainly add some opportunities for us.
On the Insurance side it's a little less rating-agency sensitive than on the Reinsurance side.
But it should help marginally on our international book.
That's where it would get the most attention to it under international T&amp;C [ph] book but it is on the mark.
And I would also Mike just to make sure we're clear S&amp;P actually increased the rating from an A to an A+ on the FSR rating.
A.M.
Best was a change in outlook to a positive outlook on the issuer credit rating.
So just to be clear we have an outlook change from A.M.
Best.
We have an actual rating change from S&amp;P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
Lastly for Greg I believe the answer is no from your remarks so far.
But -- so would you say how much of the kind of higher attritional losses emanated from kind of the business lines you had previously classified in the past as challenged.
I know we don't use that term anymore.
None.
Your next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess first for Jamie I guess for our model can you talk about the Heartland premiums that were in the fourth quarter of 2012? I believe the year-to-date number for the fourth quarter was $60 million.
The vast majority of it was captured in the first 3 quarters of 2012 I believe $58 million part of the $60 million.
Jay this is Pete.
We can come back to separately if those numbers are not exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Yes check them out.
If they're not obviously you'll let me know.
But it sounds like you should have a big distorting factor in the fourth quarter.
I guess then maybe a -- excuse me? That would certainly will not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Question I guess for Mike.
As you look at the business now obviously your margin towards a higher ROE based on where you're heading based on where interest rates are where you see the market would you be disappointed if you don't see a double-digit ROE in 2015? Jay that's such a clever way to ask me to forecast.
But I may go out on a limb and say yes.
I would be disappointed.
Your next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So one question I had I guess was we've kind of talked about these large losses.
But maybe asking it this way excluding those items if you just look at like rate-driven margin expansion what did that look like in the third quarter? The rate-driven margin expansion for the Insurance segment would be about 1%.
That 1.5 point rate above trend times the loss ratio gives you about a 1% lift.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as far as that crop business I mean do you expect to replace that premium with either other crop business or other Reinsurance business? Well we have.
I think we've mentioned Mike on previous calls we began a new relationship this year with an agency in California called Global Agriculture.
In the third quarter we booked $11.4 million of premium from them.
We would expect on an annualized basis that could be in the mid-30s.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then I guess one question I think I don't know if I got this exactly right but on property CAT reinsurance it sounded like there's a bit of a disconnect there between kind of the reinsurance insurance markets and what trends are on the pricing side.
What -- if you see that first off do you expect to grow that business at 1 1 particularly in North America? Well we certainly have room to grow from a risk-management perspective.
You will have seen our limited profile in the Q up from the second quarter.
Whether we grow or not depends entirely on the trading environment at year-end.
I mean we are not top line driven.
We never have been.
We anticipate and ended up with a very attractive-looking portfolio but we'll grow it if the terms and conditions are right.
I don't know what more else to say.
It's a hugely syndicated market.
And we'll just have to see what the trading environment looks like at year-end.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And what -- is the trade-off more about kind of filling that space with -- filling your quota for that business or in the absolute return or the kind of blended return of the portfolio.
Because I guess you can imagine a scenario where pricing is not great margins are not great but from a risk-management and risk-adjusted perspective you still see value in writing that business? How do you think about that? I'd say a couple of things.
One is we've been very consistent with the way we measure rate adequacy which I mentioned a few questions ago.
Even with the reductions at midyear our U.S.
CAT portfolio is at about 100% rate adequacy.
So if we see business at those levels we'll certainly look to write it.
There are other geographies that are not as well rated and significant reductions there will probably cause us to reduce our position in those markets.
And finally we've never taken the view that we will write very inexpensive business in some geographies simply because it's there and it's the only business that you can write in those territories.
If it's really cheap we just pass on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it and then just last one I guess.
To the extent that that proportion of business falls down where would you most likely be predisposed to deploy that capital I guess within Reinsurance into Insurance and maybe for Mike and Pete back into buybacks? No it's really a question of opportunity.
As we look across the book one of the advantages we have is the many product lines we're in the many geographies we're in.
And we see a number of profitable opportunities across the globe that where we can grow in put money to work.
At the same time we do have return hurdles in mind and when those return hurdles can't be met by continuing to put money behind businesses we put it -- while we maintain the buffers I described we then turn it to share repurchases.
So that's kind of 3-step process has been as long as I've been here and we'll go through that entire process.
And then I should just be clear that could be opportunity in Reinsurance it could be an opportunity in Insurance.
It just depends on what we see out there.
Clearly right now if you were to bet on where it might go to work I would say it would be more likely these days to go to work in the Insurance book given broadly what we're seeing.
Your next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm struggling with how to ask this.
But can you help us understand what it is that you did not see that would have suggested that there was maybe a deeper problem with the attritional losses? Meyer you're either in a speaker phone or we couldn't hear that very well.
Could we do that one more time? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I'm happy to.
I'm not sure it made sense the first time anyway.
Can you talk about what it was that you didn't see that had you seen it would have suggested that there's actually maybe a more fundamental problem in the attritional losses that you saw in the quarter? I mean that's the point I was making in the opening that Greg has reinforced.
We do have a process.
Any time we see this kind of -- an unusual level of loss activity we've gone through that process.
In our view in these cases there was nothing we couldn't have foreseen that we hadn't foreseen that would have changed this outcome.
It's a matter of being in this business and these particular clients at this particular point in time and has -- doesn't change our view of our mix of business.
So our business is going forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I can't remember if it was Greg but somebody said that there's 1.5 point gap between current rate increases and loss cost trends.
Are those current loss cost trends like what we're seeing right now or sort of anticipated long-term rates? They're over the long-term but they are -- the loss cost trends hold true this quarter.
That is a quarterly figure.
So it's -- we don't twist them around violently quarter-to-quarter but it's the most recent quarter.
Your next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could expand a little bit on the levers that you used when you mentioned in your remarks that you didn't need rate to get to your profit goals.
And if that's so just expand upon exactly what that -- if we didn't have rate tomorrow what would you do to get there? Well just to be clear Paul we keep doing what we're doing.
We don't count on rate.
The plan from the beginning didn't count on rate.
Obviously if you get a lot of rate it changes how things work and you get even more benefit from the actions you're taking.
But between our reunderwriting and between our remixing towards more profitable lines of business either because we're adding lines of business that we find to be lower combined ratio historically or because we are increasing or growing in lines of business that we have produced historical differences.
I'm going to give you 2 examples: crisis management we're building out a very nice business right now.
Right now it's a negative drag but we expect it to be a very substantial contributor to our 90-degree goal -- or 90% combined ratio goal.
At the same time we're growing very nicely and have been for a couple of years in North American property where we're achieving an excellent result.
So that's an example of a new line of activity and there's an example of an existing business we're putting more capital behind it in order to increase.
As we -- that causes a remixing of the books of business towards greater profitability and we are also going to see as I mentioned continuing lift from operational investments that are being harvested.
When you add those together none of those are dependent on rate.
They're about our own actions and completely within our own control.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I'm keeping the fate.
My second question is completely unrelated and should be a softball.
Any thoughts on this new accounting that we're coming down the pike from: the SP [ph] and the ISAP.
So Paul I'd say I understand the technical merit of some of the proposed changes that they're talking about particularly around the discounting reserves.
But I'm really concerned that these types of changes are going to have a pretty significant implementation cost and have the potential to add quite a bit of volatility and comparability as you start with our reported results.
The other thing I'd say is we've always been really supportive of the creation of a single global accounting standard.
And we're pretty disappointed that the global accounting policy makers couldn't come together here and come up with a single view.
And knowing that that single view is not coming about in the near term we don't see any reason to significantly change an approach that seems to be well understood by the users of the financial info.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with BAM.
I guess my first is for Jamie on the Reinsurance accident year.
The 87 [ph] is obviously a little better year-over-year but it's few points worse than the first half.
I'm not quite sure which one to benchmark it against but was there anything unusual in this quarter versus the first half? Yes we had a couple large losses.
We had $2 million from the property loss from the Quebec train crash.
Like train crash we had a $6 million warehouse fire loss in France and $5 million loss from the Asiana air crash.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then to Greg I guess the large losses it's been sort of a frequent theme over the years right some quarters very good some quarters poor.
But it seems like your volatility in large losses is greater than what I would consider your peers'.
And I get some of that is a type of lines you write.
But is other things you could be proactive about to manage that respectively? Meaning do you need or have you reviewed whether you think your line sizes are too big or were you play in a syndicated? Or maybe you should buy more per risk reinsurance to manage it? Or are there things you can do and I mean there are obviously other things you can do.
I guess the equation is why have you chosen not to do those things? Well this is Mike.
Let me start this is much more about who we are and how we're designed.
When you look at a lot of our peers many of them have very large blocks of kind of low-volatility business and we don't have that.
We're all about volatility around here.
So that does make us a bit different.
At the same time there are a lot of things we can do and we have been doing them and that's exactly the news and I make such a big fuss over the difference between the fourth quarter of '11 and the impact of the same kind of activity today.
Then it was a 108 combined.
Today we still made an underwriting profit.
That is because we have been doing the very kinds of things that you just described.
You could ask "Are we there yet?" And until we're running pretty regularly these 90 combines the answer is no.
And so is there more we can do? We're doing those things.
And I think that they are showing their effectiveness by the fact that on this trailing 12-month basis we continue to see such a dramatic improvement in the performance of the book.
And I view it in -- so on the profit side when are you going to get the profit pool bigger? The split I use before of at target near target and away from target we need to get that to about 70 20 10 right? That will help create a bigger profit pool to buffer against this.
But as Mike noted we've grown our property premium in North America dramatically the past couple of years but we kept our CAT retentions flat in dollar terms and we bought a little bit lower down the risk cover.
We've reduced our excess cows in that line by about 15%.
We've reduced our professional net lines in some areas pretty measurably.
So we are doing those things.
It is a constant analysis of trying to balance how much profit I have in the portfolio and how much I'm willing to let anyone set a risk move against it.
That's very helpful color actually.
If can ask one more? The other way I looked at it Greg is if I take the average of the last 6 quarters excluding the tough Q1 of a year ago it's right around the 96 and even looking the last 3 quarters of last year versus the first 3 of this year are about the same.
So it seems like we're kind of stuck at this 96 and so how do we get from 96 to 90? I guess the presumption of the question is I'd thought there'd be a little bit more gradual improvement rather than sort of being in this 96 range for 6 straight quarters if I smear that out.
So I would say there is an unusually an unusually good quarter in Q3 '12 right which is driving this the quarter-over-quarter different where we had our lowest loss ratio in a few years.
So there's a little bit of that.
There's unusually good quarter that happened in the midst of that strength.
But I'd tell you I'd take it back to that trailing 12 months the '11 '12 '13 where we're 104 100.8 and 96.5 and that is what we -- that's what we're observing that we're seeing it move through.
I just don't -- I'm afraid I just don't spend a lot of time analyzing quarter-to-quarter.
Okay I guess what I was really doing is taking the 100 [ph] play of last year and stripping out the first quarter because that was a tough one and seeing if you do those back 3 quarters it's more like 1 point than 4 points.
And a good chunk of that seems to be expense ratio improvement which is fair which is a fair way to get there.
I don't care if you get there through loss or expense but...
Yes I mean look I got to be clear.
Again when we look at it and the way we look at it you can see why we're as excited as we are.
At the same time if you ask your question in a different way would we like the loss ratio to be improving more quickly? The answer is yes.
Do we think that the right actions are in place to cause that? We do and that is the source of our confidence.
So I appreciate what you're saying but that's the way we look at it.
Our final question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just 2 quick questions.
Just going back to Ian's question the traditional losses in Q3 2012 was that number sort of 0? Is that what you were implying when you said -- I'm not talking about the crop losses but was that component 0? There was only one significant loss in the third quarter a year ago and it was modest Ian.
So the answer essentially is yes.
Okay.
Because I was trying to do an apples-to-apples comparison.
That's helpful.
I guess the only other question I have is a quick one is do you have any exposure to the Spanish surety bond issue? Yes it's Jamie here.
We have some in the Reinsurance segment.
We took $6.3 million in incurred losses in this quarter.
We have total up of about $11 million.
We've done an analysis to the portfolio and we believe if everything went to hell we have less than $20 million of additional exposure in the entire portfolio all accident years.
And the answer for Insurance is no.
And at this time I'll turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
Yes I just want to thank everybody for their thorough questioning.
As I said before while we remain a work in progress and we can see areas where we still need to do more work.
And in a sense even when you get there you work to stay there.
But the rate of progress we are very pleased by.
This business today we feel very complimented by the results over at S&amp;P and I know our people really feel good about that recognition.
And we are determined to drive it to the bottom line and we're looking forward to next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.