Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to XL Group's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
And first we apologize for the technical glitch that resulted in our release coming out later than usual and we will work to avoid that recurring.
Now on our call tonight you're going to hear from Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and Jamie Veghte our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before they begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only for the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
And with that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining out call.
Tonight we are pleased to discuss the third quarter in which we produced solid across the board results and continued a strong year for XL.
Total P&amp;C underwriting profit for the quarter was $144 million $67 million greater than the prior year quarter.
This was driven by better year-over-year P&amp;C combined ratio of 90.1% and a loss ratio of 59.1% which is really six points better than the third quarter of 2013.
From a year-to-date view the majority of our core metrics including gross written premium our calendar combined ratio and loss ratio are also all better than the same period a year ago.
While we like the majority of the industry benefited from a relatively quiet CAT quarter the primary driver of these results were the continuing improvement of our businesses and the cementing of our re-underwriting and remixing actions.
For example our Insurance segment produced $54 million in underwriting profit in the quarter and an accident ex-CAT combined ratio of 94.8% which is $42 million and three points better respectively than the prior year quarter.
Greg will get further into the reinsurance results but as our work continues I’ll say that we are pleased with the progress across the segment.
Our business leaders are taking the necessary action to achieve their targets and to fight in a tough rate environment.
Even when that retranslates into maintaining discipline on pricing they are not chasing the markets down in search of top-line.
Reinsurance contributed another strong quarter with an underwriting profit of $90 million and a combined ratio of 79.2%.
These results were $25 million and six points better than the prior year quarter on lower gross written premium which goes to show the quality of our reinsurance book and the talent of our underwriters.
Jamie will have more on this segment and the reinsurance market but I don’t think I’ll be skewing this under or surprising you when I say that the tough conversations on price terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets continue.
But here too we like our disciplined approach in when it means opting not to renew a line or being unwilling to follow terms refined unacceptable for the market and for our business.
And while we see the market remaining competitive for the foreseeable future we are confident in our unique ways to continue our improvement and find our advantage.
As we’ve discussed rate is only one lever we can pull our underwriting actions are a constant for us and we continue to examine and reexamine our progress even when we like we are seeing there is more we can do same with remixing this too is a work in progress.
And in this next phase of competition we see expense management and the ability to gain leverage from the prior strategic investments we’ve made as being increasingly important.
Back to reinsurance for just a moment.
We made a recent announcement of course that Jamie Veghte will be retiring at the end of this year.
This will make this the last earnings call in which he will participate.
Now there has been a lot said about Jamie and the great results that he has produced over time and many of the people on this call have sent their kind regards which all I know are appreciated.
But I just want to say the obvious.
There is no one who touch his excel whether a client or colleague a shareholder or just a friend of the company that doesn’t know how important Jamie has been to all of us and each of us on this call and certainly knew personally are going to deeply miss working with Jamie.
The good news is we made that announcement in order to make sure that Jamie got a good farewell circuit in this tough renewal season.
I think it’s been crucial to our team that we have a nice stable reinsurance renewal season and then Jamie has his plan will leave his direct employment role at the end of the year.
But I want to just extend our heartfelt thanks and congratulations to Jamie for the extraordinary run he has with us at XL and all he does as a friend.
With that Pete? Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating income for the third quarter was $187 million or $0.70 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $155 million in 2013 or $0.53 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders was $72 million or $0.27 per share on a fully diluted basis.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding the impact of life purchase arrangement was $223 million for the quarter or $0.83 per share on a fully diluted basis.
I am going to come back to a discussion about the life transactions’ impact on net income at the end of my remarks because while we have explained this in theory before it is now present in the full quarter’s numbers for the first time and I want to make sure that everything is clear.
But first to our financial results.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio of 90.1% for the quarter was an improvement of 4.9 points versus the same quarter last year while our accident year combined ratio was 92.5% better by 7.6 points.
This improvement in our accident year combined ratio was driven by improvements in both our catastrophe loss experience and our underlying ex-catastrophe experience in both insurance and reinsurance including a reinstatement adjustment in reinsurance.
This adjustment relates to reinstatement premiums associated with prior year non-catastrophe case reserves and our international reinsurance business that have not yet been recorded.
The net of tax impact of the adjustment was approximately $20 million the majority of which relates to cash reserves from previous years.
This represents approximately three points of the reinsurance loss ratio and one point for our overall loss ratio.
As we’ve outlined on previous calls the third quarter is what we refer to as an actual versus expected quarter for our entire insurance segment in our US reinsurance business.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $35 million or 2.4 loss ratio points compared to $79 million or 5.1 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development of $20 million and $15 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
Jamie will discuss prior year development for reinsurance in a few minutes.
As we’ve indicated in the past we continue to expect that overall operating expense levels unadjusted for foreign exchange and performance-based compensation for 2014 will be modestly higher than 2013 at mid single-digit growth levels.
Excluding the negative impact of these two items on the quarter our operating expenses grew by approximately 4% in the quarter compared to last year.
We continue to be highly focused on balancing cost efficiency with continued investments in both infrastructure and insurance underwriting teams.
Our increased use of reinsurance cede will continue to impact the reported operating expense ratio as ceding commissions which cover all expenses are reported on the acquisition expense line.
Turning to the XL investment portfolio and similar to our second quarter focusing only on the assets which XL does retain the economics the investment portfolio returned 0.5% for the quarter and 4.3% year-to-date.
Unrealized net gains in the retained portfolio were $1.03 billion at the end of the third quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio increased by 0.2 years to 3.8 years which still remains short duration relative to our benchmark.
At $170 million net investment income on the portfolio excluding the life funds withheld assets was $68 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the life transaction which contributed $56 million of this reduction.
The gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of September was 2.7%.
We still have a gap between the yields on maturing assets and where we are reinvesting which will keep downward pressure on net investment income.
We estimate that approximately $3 billion of assets with an average gross book yield of 2.9% will mature and pay down over the next 12 months compared to the average new money rate in Q3 on the portfolio of 1.9%.
Our investment and operating affiliates continue to produce strong results for the XL portfolio.
Net income from investment affiliates in was $25 million up $20 million from the prior year quarter with solid performance across the majority of our strategies particularly private investments.
We also had good earnings from our investment manager affiliates of $16 million.
Net realized gains were $10 million in the quarter driven primarily by sales of equities.
This compares to net realized losses of $2 million in third quarter of 2013.
When combined with the negative movement in unrealized gains and losses of $119 million and – gains of $5 million we ended the quarter with a negative mark-to-market of $104 million on our portfolio excluding the life funds withheld assets.
On a tax related note you may have heard that the Irish government announced to intend to abolish the so-called double Irish tax strategy by treating companies incorporated in Ireland as tax resident of Ireland.
This change if it goes through will have no impact on XL because all of our companies incorporate in Ireland are already Irish tax residents.
And a positive side-effect of this review is that the Irish government also announced it is fully committed to its current 12.5% corporate tax rate.
With respect to capital management during the quarter we repaid at maturity our $600 million 5.25% senior notes which you will recall we have pre-funded with five year and third year debt issued in November of 2013.
We continue to execute on our share buyback program at the higher level noted during our core following the life transaction.
During the third quarter we purchased 8.2 million shares for $275 million at an average price of $33.35 per share for a total $625 million year-to-date.
That leaves $443 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management too.
Now back to the life purchase session discussion.
As we discussed in our April and July calls regarding the life reinsurance transaction we completed in May our net income numbers will be impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that transfers the economics of the assets backing that transaction.
This quarter is a good illustration of how we previously indicated accounting implications would occur so let me walk you through what is happening.
First please remember that the vast majority of our life funds withheld assets are invested in European assets and while our US interest rates generally increase during the third quarter European interest rates generally declined resulting an unrealized gains arising on that portion of the portfolio.
The increase in unrealized gains resulted in a derivative loss that lowered our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders but that derivative movement is offset by investment income realized gains and losses and the change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
And I’ll now turn it over to Greg to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Today I'll cover the results for the segment provide insight on our continued progress and finish with the remarks on current market conditions.
Starting with the results the third quarter marked our seventh consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing a calendar year combined ratio of 94.7% compared to 98.8% in the same quarter last year.
This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the accident quarter ex CAT loss ratio of 64% which was four points better than prior year.
And the same loss ratio improved by 1.5 points on a year-to-date basis.
We believe our continued improvement in performance is evident the fact that we have once again been able to absorb medium and large loss activity in the quarter with a lower impact in our results relative to prior year.
Remainder of the calendar year improvement results from a 1.7 point increase in favorable prior year development driven by releases in short-term lines and was partially offset by CAT losses that were 0.4 worse than the prior year quarter.
The underwriting expense ratio is 30.9% in the third quarter reflecting a deterioration of 1.1 points from the third quarter last year mainly due to continued investment in certain businesses.
As mentioned previously the actions we have taken to shift towards quota share in a number of our businesses has restored the comparison of our acquisition and expense ratio to prior year.
These quota shares have increased in commission income improving our acquisition ratio by three points would have lowered net earned premiums partly contributing to a 4.1 point higher operating expense ratio.
It is worth noting that for the three main businesses where we increased our quota share usage we have seen an improvement of over 4% in our underwriting expense ratio.
Overall we continue to focus on improving operating leverage and actions are underway to ensure the total underwriting expense ratio reflects this ongoing improvement.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $57 million or 4.5% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
North America property and casualty premiums grew by 13% with construction and excess casualty contributing the largest growth.
Our specialty group was up over 11% reflecting strong growth from new teams in both our marine and crisis management businesses.
Professional lines were flat for the quarter with growth in our cyber and design books offset by the timing of a large renewal in our international financial lines book.
And our international P&amp;C business was down almost 9% resulting from underwriting changes due to underperformance in our energy and Lloyd's middle market books.
While markets are increasingly competitive for many of our businesses we continue to see increased submission for and a higher default ratio as we continue to have positive momentum in the large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to our ongoing progress using results for the trailing 12 months we experienced a 1.3 point improvement in our accident year ex CAT loss ratio relative to the prior 12 months period despite experiencing a higher level of large losses in the more recent 12 months.
This improvement is a result of our focus on an improved mix of business and the underwriting actions that we have taken.
Our mix of business continues to improve as we shift our portfolio to more profitable lines.
On a year-to-date basis nearly 60% of our gross premium is better than or within 5% of our target combined ratio.
And our underwriting actions continue to contribute as we have delivered roughly two loss ratio points of improvement over the past two years and have identified additional actions for the fourth quarter and into 2015.
And our talent continues to get stronger as well.
This quarter we appointed Dave Schmitz to lead our Global Property Risk Engineering team.
We added Michael LaRocca as its Chief Underwriting Officer in its North America Property business and Anthony Vidovich as General Counsel for our Claims operation.
In addition to these new appointments we also strengthened our crisis management team in Asia increased our financial lines and surety capabilities in Latin America and expanded our trade receivable insurance team with appointments in London Baltimore and New York.
For the quarter we increased our underwriting force by another 17 positions as we continue to invest in our businesses.
Turning to market conditions we saw a continued slowing in rate across more lines of business as the overall rate increase for the segment was flat in the quarter and positive by 1% on a year-to-date basis.
That said two-thirds of our businesses are still showing positive rate for the year.
In the quarter our international property and casualty and global professional businesses achieved rate in the 1% range adversely impacted by property and high excess D&amp;O business respectively.
Our North American businesses were flat in the third quarter driven by a 4% reduction in property offset by a 7% increase in our environmental business.
And our specialty business continues to be most severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of 2.5 points largely reflecting a competitive aviation marketplace.
As fourth quarter renewals begin our aviation business is now driving positive rate movement due to recent market loss activity.
Finally while we once again benefited from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter we are pleased with the continued improvements we see in our accident year results excluding CAT.
But we are not satisfied.
There is still room for further improvement and we remain confident with our ongoing growth in higher margin businesses and our continuous underwriting actions across all businesses will allow us to achieve our profitability targets.
On a personal note I am honored to turn the call over one last time to my friend and colleague of 25 years.
Jamie? Thanks Greg and good evening.
The reinsurance segment had an excellent quarter of underwriting results with a combined ratio of 79.2% and a resulting underwriting profit of $90 million.
This compares to a combined ratio of 85.4% in the third quarter of 2013.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases our combined ratio in the quarter was 82.7%.
This result compares favorably with the 102.4% achieved in Q3 of 2013 a quarter that was significantly impacted by catastrophe activity most notably the German hailstorms that contributed $43 million of third quarter losses last year.
With respect to the reserve releases you will note the $15 million derived in this quarter was substantially below what we enjoyed in the third quarter of 2013.
We had the development of a large marine energy claim YME Energy which contributed $11 million.
This compares to a favorable development of $12 million on cost to Concordia reflected in Q3 last year due to the trigger of retrocessional recovery.
In addition in 2013 we had reserve reductions on prior year CAT losses of $25 million a full $17 million larger than the release from this source in the third quarter of this year.
Broadly we remain very comfortable with our reserve position and due to the reduction in our release that’s principally a series of one-offs.
Turning to top-line.
Gross written premiums in the quarter were $276 million a 21% reduction from the $350 million written in the third quarter of 2013.
The main drivers of this reduction were from our North American business unit there we had $44 million of share reductions and cancellations largely in casualty treaty as well as $24 million of timing differences and premium adjustments.
Our international operations included reductions of $25 million primarily from our Latin American operations due to the cancellations and reduced shares.
This was largely offset by the impact of premium adjustments including an additional reinstatement premiums from prior year non-catastrophe losses.
Our Bermuda business unit was generally in line with last year.
On a year-to-date basis the segment has generated a combined ratio of 77.1% which compares favorably to the 80.1% achieved in 2013.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases our combined ratio was 84.3% which compares favorably to the 92.9% generated a year ago with the improvement driven by a lower level of catastrophe activity this year.
With respect to top-line our year-to-date gross written premium is $1.6 billion 5.9% below 2000 year-to-date.
For the full year our Bermuda operation was up 4% with the major reductions coming from North America and international operations which were driven by competitive market conditions cancellations share reductions and client retention.
Things we have discussed regularly over the course of the last few years.
Operationally we have pointed continued progress with Chris McKeown and his team at New Ocean Capital Management.
Chris continues to build out his infrastructure with the hiring of a Chief Operating Officer this quarter and he is attracting third-party capital including the signing of a distribution agreement with a global financial institution.
Finally a brief word on market conditions.
Other than the mid-year CAT renewals which were clearly very competitive the third quarter is fairly quiet from a renewal perspective.
I commented at length in our second quarter call on the CAT market so I’d like to look towards the year end renewals.
As Mike mentioned I am nearing the end of my term at XL but look forward to one last renewal season.
I’ve always viewed predicting year end trading condition as a bit of a full variant.
This is a heavily syndicated market and forecasting its behavior with precision is extremely challenging.
Nevertheless I look forward to this renewal for two reasons.
First the emphasis of the recent Monte Carlo and Baden Conferences pointed toward a reasonably orderly renewal season would perhaps left pressure on rates than we’ve seen over the recent renewals.
A major theme was the desire of many clients to consolidate their reinsurance pattern over the tighter group of major trading partners.
Given our global footprint multi-line capabilities and long-term relationships we are ideally situated for such an environment.
In addition I have supreme confidence in our underwriting team’s ability to navigate its way through the harshest of trading conditions.
Their track record over a long period of time is proof of this and I am really looking forward to working closely with them at this yearend.
I have no doubt they will perform superbly whatever trading conditions we face.
With that I’ll turn it to David for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Jamie and Shirley can you please open the line for questions?  Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Kai pan with Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and good evening.
First question regarding to the insurance underwriting the 300 basis point improvements year-over-year and how much of that is sort of contributable to lower level of large non-CAT losses which was present in the prior quarter? And also going forward if the current pricing environment persists or even getting more competitive what’s your confidence of – or to show continued improvements in the insurance segment? Sure thanks Kai.
It’s Greg.
On the first part and if we look at the short tail non-CAT large losses they were roughly the same dollar amount one loss for about just over $20 million in each of the third quarter of last year and the third quarter of this year.
Moreover we look at losses we tranche them up in the affidavit levels.
So we use our short tail large being $10 million or greater.
As I said in my remarks we had some medium as well where we are little bit heavier this quarter than last quarter but in the aggregate the non-CAT losses quarter-over-quarter are roughly the same.
So the improvement is really coming from the other views of the book and better profitability embedded across the remainder of the portfolio.
In terms of your second question the current pricing environment no doubt about it we’ve talked about long about the four levers we pull on underwriting actions rate mix of business reinsurance efficiency and so no doubt.
The rate is becoming a little more difficult.
It’s not a tailwind or at back as I noted there is still little bit of positive left in the book but on an aggregate basis but not much and I just as an aside observed what I observed in the past which is for short tail lines we are seeing rates go down a little more longer tail lines rates are going up slightly.
Whenever you are in excess market so you have a layered syndication excess price is going down and primary pricing is going up.
So those dynamics remain the same.
We still have those levers and we are working them on.
I noted that the underwriting actions we have a point each year over the last three years in the hard work of getting better of how we underwrite each of our portfolios.
We are mixing our business better and better each time.
We are investing in people to grow those higher margin businesses as fast as we prudently can.
So I am still confident we are on the right path.
No doubt about the rate as that the headwind will make the timing of that a little bit longer than we would have hoped originally.
Thanks for that.
Then the second question on expense ratio it looks like you keep building the teams here adding some team positions and at the same time the market environment is becoming more competitive.
I just wonder what the rational in this environment to try to grow your team and what’s the outlook for the expense ratio going forward? Hi Kai this is Mike.
I’ll start off and Pete and Greg may want to throw in.
The bottom-line is there are still places in our product suite where we are very pleased with our profitability and want to take more of it into the book.
That’s a key part to the remixing in which we are engaged and that is achieved by adding people and teams across key positions around the world.
Greg mentioned specifically for example expanding our presence in crisis management in Asia during the course of the quarter or expanding our financial lines and surety operations than Latin America.
Those are both very positive businesses for us and any expense we are undertaking there should be repaid very handsomely very quickly in terms of the improvement in profitability through the remixing of the book.
So I would continue to make those kinds of investments all the time.
You heard Pete say in his commentary that expenses on quarter-over-quarter were up 4%.
That’s actually on the lower end of the range we’ve been forecasting for the year and that’s because we’ve already taken note of the fact that things are getting more difficult out there and are already beginning where we are not gaining profitable business as Greg has described to pool in some of our activity.
So we are already at it we are not saying that’s a coming thing.
We are already managing to the more difficult environment or experiencing.
And finally of course we are coming to budget season right now and I am quite sure it won’t come as a surprise to my colleagues who are listening.
We have sent out a message as people are working through their budgeting pricing that this is the time in the market we are going to be extraordinarily conscious of every penny we spend.
And we are going to have to start harvesting some of the investments we have made to deliver a more efficient platform.
Just given where these markets are going that’s what we are going to have to do.
I know that’s kind of straight out of the soft cycle playbook but we don’t quite think of it that way.
This could be forever we don’t know.
We have to be prepared to continue to drive toward the goals we’ve set for ourselves and the expense lever becomes more important and frankly so does remixing as we get into this more difficult pricing environment.
So I am very pleased with the approach of the team the attitude of the team the things we are already starting to do and what I believe we can do into the future.
Thanks so much for all the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Nannizzi with Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Just one question I guess Jamie in the reinsurance segment can you talk a little bit more of the year-over-year on the underlying whatever it’s the severe loss math or something in that region just trying to figure out if you want to adjust for differences year-over-year or normalize – what was the margin trend in that book? Thanks.
Well I am assuming you mean normalized by excluding prior year releases and CAT losses… Yes so that was five yes? The improvement went from 55.8 to 48.9.
The major components of it were the reinstatement premium adjustments that Pete alluded in his opening remarks about three points lower level of non-CAT large losses about 0.5 and then better attrition loss ratio in our property proportional and risk XL book.
Got it.
Okay and that makes out the difference.
Okay thank you.
And then would it be possible maybe to talk through Greg maybe a little bit more on the impact of the shift towards pro rata on the expense ratio in the insurance segment? Just trying to make sure something we got some headcount increases but also this dynamic.
Just trying to understand how we should be thinking about that and if the current mix of business is the right baseline to start from? Thanks.
Sure the pro rata treaties are predominantly in our professional and casualty protections.
We are still seeing some of the change we have made during the course of this year play through.
So there could be a little more shift but the overall session ratio that we’ve been observing should – you’ve been observing the last couple of quarters should hold steady for the insurance segment.
At the moment it’s always – you are always evaluating this and using all the levers you have to pull to see if you can improve your book either on the frontline on the gross basis on whether you can do that on a net basis as well.
At the moment I don’t foresee anything that major shift coming.
We’ve been hard at this work to get more efficient on reinsurance over the last 12 18 months.
So we will see the rest of that play through.
That helps a little bit where it is professional and casualty the biggest areas and then we are getting out of rate of session that we should see hold pretty steady.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask you question.
Good afternoon and Jamie congratulations on the announcement of your retirement.
Thank you Jay.
The thing I just want to – not for much longer can you give us a perspective on whether that year-to-date premium volume slight decline is a better indicator what you view as the run rate of growth in the reinsurance business? Yes I think so.
That’s a very good point.
As I’ve said to you all over the years reinsurance by nature is a lumpy activity and that we are not in a daily trading business.
We have three or four very large renewal days each year and so you can show anomalies in quarter-to-quarter increases or drops in your top-line.
So I think you are absolutely correct to look on an year-to-date basis would suggest – I think the 5.6% decline year-on-year and I think that’s reflective of both the market conditions that Mike referenced and our underwriting philosophy.
And then separately for Greg the underlying insurance segment combined ratio has been oscillating right around that mid 90% 95% range year-to-date.
What’s your level of confidence that that could continue to improve over the next year or so? Yes as I said earlier Jay I am confident we can continue to improve that number.
We talked earlier about the rate being not to help it had been being a bit of a neutral.
I think I said headwind it’s actually still slightly positive but not keeping up with trend.
We still got those other activities that we can pull on.
The underwriting actions the mix of the portfolio the analytics of bringing the bear and so we have a lot of other areas to work at.
I think if we look at the progression we’ve been on from a 104 in 2011 to 98.5 in 2012.
The 96.7 in 2013 and to 94.8 in nine months this year.
Now we are on the right path it’s just going to probably be a little slower as we go here both because of where the market is and it always the last few yards of a hardest ones to dig out so.
It’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask you question.
Hi good evening.
Thank you thanks for taking the call.
So Greg congratulations on a good quarter.
Actually something you said in your prepared remarks I wonder maybe I either missed out or just was a little bit surprised.
So maybe if you could clarify a bit something you said was something on the lines of – I think 60% of your premium is better or worse than – is better I guess than 5% below target or above.
But I think that would imply something like 40% of your businesses is more than 5% worse than its target.
And I just thought maybe you could if that is right sort of walk us through what challenges – what businesses those are what challenges those businesses are still facing and what the plans are? Or if I am wrong maybe you can set me straight thank you.
Sure Josh no you heard right Josh.
We have a process as you look from the top down and how much capital you allocate to each business each one is different target combined ratio and indeed 60% of our book on a premium basis is in that category of either better than what we are targeting as our combine ratio to make our return or within five combined ratio points of that target.
So either they are close.
The remaining 40% I am not going to drill every business.
We did that a few years ago.
You are always going to have a certain percent of the book in that category.
Somewhere in that 10% to 20% range.
You are not ever going to go through any period up or down in the cycle to not going to have something struggling.
But we are working through if I think of one that we talked about during the call our marine book we brought in Lea Merrick about 18 months ago and embarked on a strategy to improve the performance of that book from where it’s been.
We’ve identified cargo as an area where we struggle being too European-centric we are pulling back the right things there.
We’ve added new teams hence this ties this investment conversation we’ve been having why we believe to get it more global book and as those teams get up and running and that business comes online we should be in a better performing basis.
So there is not a whole business in any of that 40%.
It’s now chunks of certain portfolios that we manage that are in that grouping.
Also the last piece I’d add is all the business that we are building out crisis management political risk business surety.
in marine all of those are in growth mode and so they are in their first three years so by definition all four of those are going to be in that bucket of not yet performing on target.
Well that’s interesting.
So that’s not just sort of I mean I don’t want to use the word challenge businesses but I mean so it’s not just underperforming businesses some of them are just immature.
That’s absolutely right.
Is that your conclusion? And so overall over the next couple of years you guys have looked for that number presumably to decline now and that drags most of your improvement? Absolutely.
Okay.
Cool if I can just think one more and Mike really big picture.
You guys let a news around sort of the alternative capital space here.
You mentioned the soft market playbook somebody else talked about New Ocean or Jamie did I think I apologize.
The question is when you think about the various approaches to using alternative capital whether it’s figuring out and people to partner with sort of create captive reinsurers and things like that or just sort of being a more aggressive buyer of reinsurance in the open market how are you guys thinking about the relative pros and cons and sort of the different approaches that you can see people all across the board is starting to take? Thank you.
Yes thanks for the question.
Couple of things.
Number one I’ve been of the view for sometime and I know there are other sorts this is well uncomfortable this is positive in fact very positive.
And in putting in simple simple term I always want to be in a space that is more attractive to capital them less and certainly seeing these new forms of capital coming into our sector while have short-term difficulties in the long run this is good news and this provides us more capital to solve more of the world’s problems and that’s our job.
So I really like it.
Exactly how to apply it is the great question it comes in a number of ways one is you notice we are ceding more than we were in the past.
We are doing it not only because of what’s going on in the reinsurance marketplace and because of what alternative capital is already doing in that marketplace but also because we have re-thought how to create greater stability in terms of our earnings all the time.
So we have been doing I think a better job and a more strategic job of buying reinsurance that’s partly influenced by what’s going on in the pricing environment partly influenced what’s going on in search of capital.
So that is one place where we are conscious.
The second thing that we consider all the time is whether or not in every case it has to be XL’s capital that goes to the client’s solution.
We haven’t done anything dramatic in this space but we spend a lot of time thinking about it because in the end if our underwriting powers can determine a solution for a client that is made better by using capital other than our own we should do it.
We have to be open to that because ultimately if you are solving the clients’ problem that’s where we are in business and that’s where we are well paid for our activities.
So we are looking at a variety of models for how to achieve that.
One we’ve already shown the market through New Ocean.
But I can assure you there has been a long range of people coming by with ideas we have had a few that originated here as well and as things evolve of course we will announce them.
I do want to note though there has been one change in how that market is behaving that I think is very important.
And I think this speaks to the importance and centrality of underwriting in what will come.
When this started out this was all about those who gather assets and they were calling all the shots.
They were designing basically fit for purpose things for themselves and not really for solving clients’ problems so much.
My view is different.
As we’ve seen conversations evolve especially last month six months or so the people coming to us are no longer saying hey we’ve got a big bunch of assets and we are good at this.
You just go off and don’t lose too much money on that underwriting stuff and we’ll make a bunch of money which was kind of how the first conversations went.
To where now we are realizing we have to be able to gather together pools of risk in an effective way and then match that to a solid asset gathering strategy.
That’s a more balanced partnership a more reasonable and sustainable way to solve clients’ problems and we happen to be pretty good around here at creating profitable portfolios of the kinds of risks with characteristics that match well for the goals and the characteristics of some of these asset managers.
So I am very optimistic that by being thoughtful about how to go forward and being the kind of underwriter we are that the world is coming that one that plays right into the hands of a global carrier with a complex risk profile and the selfless attitude about how do cite client problems and not just how to throw their own balance sheet around.
So I like the world that’s coming and I think we are poised for.
But that’s kind of how I see that all playing out.
It’s going to show up in lots of ways across the entire place and every one of us has to be open to and thoughtful about how we can creative and enable that capital to come in and solve client problems.
One last thought sorry.
And we shouldn’t just focus on the problems we are solving today.
Every time there is a difference between economic loss and insured loss we should track subtract a little b it for retention to make sure the risks are aligned and then we can say the rest of it is a problem insurance could be solving why aren’t we.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Evercore.
You may ask you question.
Hi good evening.
So the improvement in the primary insurance combined ratio just curious how much more is left in terms of the re-underwriting of the business because you’ve been at it for a while and where would you say you are in the process of remixing the business right now? So Vinay on the first part the underwriting actions is a continuous and never ending process.
You are always working through your book to sort through and find how you can improve it and underwrite it better.
That’s what I call of additional underwriting site so you are guiding the book by industry by geography whether it’s in the actuarial pricing side or whether it’s in the predictive.
We are bringing all three to bear on that problem to get better and better.
We are – on the second part where are we in that remixing we are more – so we are there more than further close to where we want to be but the new business that’s coming online still have a long way to come up to get up on plan there.
Some of them are already in this – they are six months one year 18 months period.
So really it takes three years for those books to get up and going and so I’d say in the activities of the core book were there but in those particularly those new businesses we believe are really going to have a lot of lift we’ve got more runway to go.
Okay that’s helpful.
And on the reinsurance side I mean we’ve seen margins there hold up pretty well relative to last year are we seeing prices sort of coming down.
Would remixing of that book so for example I think this quarter some casualty quota share treaties were not renewed.
So do you think that the remixing of portfolio will have to maintain margins near term next year? Vinay we have always been of the view that remixing the portfolio based on market conditions is a core part of our strategy and competency.
I would point out that property CAT in 2005 was about 11% of our global portfolio today it’s about 30% that’s because we like the CAT business.
We made a lot of money out of it but we’ve seen tricking margins in other parts of our portfolio.
So we go forward with the same attitude.
We are completely unafraid to shift the mix of business based on the margins out there.
Vinay – kind of touching into all of this conversation I think it’s important to remember that while we have been at it as we said a while now all of the books here in – when we look at insurance we are talking about 22 different specific books and activity with different leaders.
All of them got to their attention whether the underwriting is at a different point in time it didn’t all happen at the same time.
For some of them that are on the second route does have improvements.
For some of them that are still in the first year of experiencing improvements my point is that even those initial underwriting reactions or re-underwriting actions are not completely exhausted in terms of being run through the book.
At the same time we are extremely cautious of the pace at which we take credit for them which I assure you is the right way to do it as a prudent reserve but I can also tell you that our underwriters often throw fits about the gap between their action and its recognition.
So when you ask have you seen all the benefit from what we’ve been up to the answer my book is not even close and remixing is a constant.
I think Jamie said it well and it’s something we are not getting better out in reinsurance not just in insurance – not just reinsurance which is there has to be a core competency.
We have to be constantly having the capital flow to where the opportunities are and when we can get into the businesses that have more flexible designs of operations so that we don’t have as much fixed cost to drag which is what you are doing when you are growing out specialty lines.
I really think you are seeing some great benefit.
I just want to kind of pound on it again because this has been a theme throughout the line and well we are great to see the progress but are you going to stall out here? And our answer is based on everything we are up to and what we are seeing no.
And I would just – just like what’s happened this year two of our three quarters are under 95.
I got to go back a long ways and certainly a long ways back before me to get to where those were the kinds of numbers we were regularly delivering and delivering with a fair amount of consistency.
So I am really pleased with where we are.
Sure that’s helpful and so just to follow-up on that the expense ratio sort of coming down with the growth in the top-line with one of the levers I thought that was supposed to have the combined ratio.
So with growth slowing down and expenses growing at north of 9% just wanted to follow\-up.
I mean I think you said that expenses are going to be more important.
How should we look at sort of the disconnect between right now at least the top-line versus the expenses? Well first-line expenses remember you got to correct for FX and for the comp volatility which tracks the improvement in results.
So when you normalize for that as I observed earlier as Pete emphasized in his remarks you are talking about 4% increase quarter-over-quarter.
The second thing I would point out and I think this is crucial expenses are a lever that when you pool them if you do it right especially if you have everything investments you made they fall right to the bottom-line.
So the fact that we are starting to adjust already on expenses in light of what we are seeing as they coming slowdown is exactly where we ought to be.
Third some of what slowing down is some intentional continuation of your first point the underwriting actions.
When you had that slowdown for example in our – forgive me on energy for example as Greg mentioned in his remarks we made some very specific re-underwriting and I already booked to take risk at the table to lock away from premiums and we did it very aggressively.
That wasn’t in our original plan as a result we have to adjust expenses to match to that but that’s still the right action to take even if you sacrificed a bit of top-line because it will pay off in the long run.
So again I think we are being in the right kind of steward and we’ll get another chance to talk about expenses when we announce next year’s plan which will be one of the few times where we give something approaching guidance which is right to give some explicit view of expense and we will be able to give you a clear picture of how we’ll play next year given all these conditions at that time.
But given that we went from saying it can be kind of mid-digit single-digit this year ex forgetting FX and forgetting what were the comp that’s volatility that we can forecast given that we already said we’d be kind of mid to upper mid single-digits we kind of said five to six at the beginning of the year now we’ve pulled it back down to four because of what we are seeing I think we are handling this about right.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
You may ask you question.
Great thank you very much.
I just wanted to follow-up on the top-line being lower in the reinsurance segment I appreciate the commentary on first it’d be lumpy in the year-to-date result being better.
But I guess I’d like to ask if anything is changing in those markets in particular notwithstanding the higher level of comments from Mike and alternative impacts for XL but is alternative capital coming into that area? That’s the first question.
The second is is there any impact from a slowdown in the macro economy particularly in places like Latin America that might be affecting that line more so now than in the past? Let’s talk about the alternative capital first.
The impact to-date has been obviously in the property CAT area.
There has been expanding discussions about other lines of business principally short tail lines of business although I do believe that there is some problem solving going on to address long tail lines as well.
So the direct impact on the marketplace to-date has recently been in property CAT but my expectation over time is that you will see alternative sources of capital taking on risk at other parts of the marketplace.
In terms of macroeconomic conditions flowing things down.
I suppose there is an argument that that slows down for example increased insurance penetration and the development of the middle-class and so forth in emerging markets I hadn’t really thought about it that closely and linking it to our own top-line.
We have just now particularly in Latin America extremely challenging trading conditions for a long long time and we are just re-underwriting that book of business until we get it right.
Okay so those are more concepts anything you felt like you felt in the top-line for reinsurance this particular quarter.
Is that a fair takeaway both with alternative and emerging economies? Yes.
Okay thank you.
And then another one on the aviation book you mentioned that you were seeing better rate because of the loss activity.
I think it’s the worst year on record for aviation losses.
Can you give us a sense of what kind of rate you are getting there and the other clarification or detailed question was have the losses emerged out in the reported results for the third quarter or is that still being sorted out? Randy it’s Greg So on the first part on the aviation book a little color.
It’s always very difficult for us to get very precise industry numbers on a lot of these specialty lines.
But as we look at that aviation market as a whole we think we are around about 5% market share player by premium.
And as best we can tell on the losses we’ve recorded relative to what we think the industry loss is we are about 1% to 1.5% share of loss.
So we’ve done a very good job of underwriting around those losses this year..
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman from Balyasny.
You may ask you question.
Hi thanks Peter I just have a few numbers questions I am just struck on to reconcile the release to the net income as you can everything that up right.
I guess first on the life business that’s retained am I getting it right that there is about $6 million of operating income? And if so is that a reasonable run rate or might that not be a higher or lower going forward? Ian it’s Pete.
$6 million is the number that was recorded in income for the quarter around the retail business.
I’d say within a few million that would be a reasonable number to expect in the future.
Okay great.
On investment income ex – or ex the fund withheld there are two different sports that’s in the supplement and there are different numbers on Page 4 it’s a $153 million – I am sorry Page 8 it’s a $153 million and Page 4 it’s $170 million what’s the difference? Let me take a look that if I’m guessing it would be on the structured we had this structured business that we record out separately both the income and expenses.
So let me take a look at the pages and confirm that by the time of your last question come in.
Got it.
Okay and the $20 million reinstatement that you talked about can you explain that again it went a little too fast for me is that basically prior period development comes into your earned premium or is it something else? So anyhow I am happy to – Jamie and I just are discussing who is going to go and talk about it.
So if you look at – I apologize – so if you look at sort of the go back to the reinstatement premiums and we are very familiar with the property CAT business right this is not property CAT much of the adjustment was for all the claims short tail lines of business.
We haven’t received an indication of closure from these.
We hadn’t recorded reinstatement premiums most of them in the property risk area.
And with that a detailed analysis of the older claims and we did released the case reserves but also felt that these older claim reserves were released or paid the related premiums should be accrued.
So that’s what we did.
It was about $20 million net.
I gave you the materiality to the overall results.
We don’t see that as significant either and the trends in the combined ratios are an income.
Okay just to clarify I am still little confused.
So it’s basically $20 million to premium and $20 million earnings or is it some offset somewhere? No there is a little bit of tax offset in there.
Right okay.
And this refers to prior year’s losses then? And you just then take a reinstatement at the time? Yes.
Got it okay.
And then my last one is do you have I was able to reconcile everything to net income but I can’t get the operating income right I am guessing it’s taxes.
Do you have the tax rate or the operating tax rate or the operating tax dollars? Yes the operating tax rate for the quarter was approximately 12%.
Okay then I am going to try it with you later.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome…  Okay and then Ian just going back we’d confirm that it was the structured product.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
Congratulations on the quarter and obviously congratulations to Mr.
Veghte.
I want to ask kind of a big picture question.
We – XL has been I think much more focused on hiring to expand product lines as opposed to acquiring.
We are getting into a softer cycle I think that tends to change the outlook.
I’d like to know a few things that that’s happening.
Anyhow XL is currently balancing the hire versus buy trade-offs just given today’s environment? Paul it’s Mike.
I think that we’ve obviously established a bias.
We’ve been adding teams and individuals to grow our premium for a while and we found it a very successful strategy.
We have identified businesses that we think we would be good at that are complementary to our core skills and that would our core strategy of serving as the company the world turns to complex needs.
So we still see that strategy is unchanged.
The question really goes to if acquisition would help in a strategy would you do it? Well if that would accelerate our strategy sure.
We’ve made only one small acquisitions in my six years here I think in my time at – we also made one small acquisition in those five years.
So in a 11.5 years I think I have done two small things.
We look at a lot of things but generally speaking when we do get involved we don’t come up to winner because we do it on an economic basis not just some kind of strategic calculation.
And I think in the end we are so proud of our culture and our approach that we are very cautious about how we would approach those kinds of questions.
So do we look sure do we think that the market conditions generally point toward greater M&amp;A.
hell I am on the record on that I’ve been asked that on panels and I’ve been saying for a couple of years I think market conditions increasingly point to M&amp;A as a more likely activity in the next period of time.
And I think every day that gets a little more likely.
But for us it’s a matter of strategy if something accelerated the – our drive to our goals we’d be intrigued by it.
If it doesn’t serve what we are doing we are not.
Always appreciate your thoughts.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Yes thank you very much for taking the question late.
Most of my questions have been answered I just want to refresh something about investment funds and look your outlook.
You said in the past that some of your funds get marked on a one month basis others on a three months basis is that still correct? Yes Josh it’s Pete.
That is still correct.
So thinking about your outlook I’ve seen some of your competitors who are shrinking their equity risk performance some of them are increasing.
Do you have an outlook as a company right now and in terms of – I was a little surprised that the point it’s a little better this quarter I guess given what we see in the strong performance from many of your competitors if you have any thoughts on that? So as far as the change in strategies no we really haven’t changed the strategy and our alternative investment and as far as go forward Sarah if you want to take that? Yes we have more – this is Sarah we have more hedge fund buyers form many of our payers who are more private equity and you have seen some big write-ups in private equity.
So that might be the differentiator.
Sarah I think that answers it perfectly.
And so no change of allocation going forward though? No no.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
You may ask your question.
Yes thank you.
So just one other question I had.
You have obviously changed your retention strategy on your insurance business but it looks like on the reinsurance business you’ve done very little from a ceded standpoint.
I am wondering given the changes in the market have you considered opportunities on that side? Yes Jay.
And I think I mentioned in the second quarter call we actually increased our spend on our CAT program.
I think we are always looking at opportunities to buy reinsurance I think actually Greg probably has more opportunity the retrocession market is a narrower trading market but yes the answer is we are constantly looking at opportunities.
Okay I forgot about that 2Q.
That’s right thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Okay great.
Thanks for fitting the end.
Mike sort of big picture question.
Has the timeline that you imagine or that you expect let’s say for achieving 10% ROE been impacted at all by interest rate declines year-to-date? Well I mean there is no question that the entire sector and the entire insurance business model is been impacted by these interest rates and it’s challenged everyone.
How the year will finish out it’s hard to tell it just depends on part on – there is just a lot of variables that we just don’t know.
So we’ve been kind of hovering around that 10% ROE line.
Made it last year whether we do or not this year it’s little hard for me to forecast and I wouldn’t do such even if I could.
But there is no question that the interest rates make it more difficult.
When our reinvestment rate is something like 1.9% this is a very tough environment and it just makes it obvious why it is so important for us to keep driving the levers.
I thought this is a very good call.
I just want to comment the questions because we are talking about the right thing.
The core to the story at XL for the last period of time and then rate of improvement and likelihood of continuation improvement and getting out insurance combined in line and where does the reinsurance go getting the strategic pressures.
It’s been holding up nicely on the strategic pressures on the reinsurance it’s difficult but it’s fine.
On insurance we are seeking continued expansion in margins.
There may be some slowdown because of the headwinds and pricing but that’s already been matched to the idea that interest rates aren’t going to suddenly become our friend.
So well it’s made more difficult.
It is how we have designed the plan and it’s certainly going to be on our minds next year as well given all that we are seeing in terms of the interest rates that we are taking for next year in our budgets.
So I am optimistic only because we are on the right thing and we are accepting that as a given rather than saying somehow we don’t meet our hurdles until that turns around we are saying we got to deliver it even if the rate environment is difficult and even if the interest rate environment is difficult.
So I hope that’s helpful.
But that’s how we look at it.
No it is.
I appreciate it and then Greg if I can go really quickly would you talk about the immature businesses not being at return targets.
Should we look at that as an expense ratio issue or does that felt in loss ratio as well? It’s mostly in the expense ratio Meyer.
It’s little bit in the loss ratio because as Mike noted earlier we tend to be pretty conservative about how we look at things early on until we can get established track record of loss but by and large that’s just getting your book up to size and covering all the expenses and the investments you made just set the business up in year one.
Okay fantastic.
Thanks so much all.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to Mike McGavick for closing remarks.
Well I guess I made them in essence.
But I really did think this was a call that’s focused on the right issues.
And the good news from my point of view is where we stand to have two of our three quarters this year below 95 ex CAT action here combined and our insurance operations is a good feeling and have this third quarter be the second of those it’s a great feeling.
I think Jamie’s troops continue to do a very good job in very difficult conditions and I think we are thinking about the business in the right context which is where all starts from.
You have to have the right problem to solve in order to solve the problem and I think we’ve got the right problems solved in our minds and are working with real diligence around it.
I am also very proud of the expense story.
Because we’ve been reacting in an appropriate way even when those are always difficult things to do and we have – I think I am pleased with where I see the planning process so far.
So I have actually enjoyed this conversation because it felt like the business we are actually running and I appreciate that spirit.
I do want to add one thought though.
I didn’t want to do in this personal of way at the beginning because I knew Jamie had some work to do tonight.
But six years ago I got here and Jamie was already here and if Jamie hadn’t been in the engine room of this business for these last six years while we finished all of these – and been dealing with all of these incredible problems from the time that we solved SCA to all the other things we’ve done we wouldn’t be on this call.
And I think the people who represent XL in the market or comment on XL in the market really owe Jamie a huge debt of thanks.
Now I feel it that way.
So thank you very much and again we do want to apologize that the press release on the path for most of you got a little slowdown but in the end I hope you’ve gotten this call useful.
Good night.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.