Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
And welcome to XL Group's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's website at www.xlgroup.com.
We posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
Please note that we have now new information to provide you regarding our proposed acquisition of Catlin Group.
Public information regarding that transaction including the offer announcement press release and investor presentation is posted on our corporate website and to our transaction specific website xl.transactionannouncement.com.
As noted in the offer announcement U.K.
Takeover Code does not apply to Catlin as it is a premium domicile company.
However due to provisions with respect to the U.K.
Takeover Code and Catlin’s bylaws the parties have agreed to certain matters regarding an application of the U.K.
Takeover Code to the potential transaction.
As you may have encountered with other M&amp;A transaction this put significant constraints on the party’s statements which we hope you can understand.
On our call this evening Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations; and John Welch our Acting Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements including those with respect to XL and a proposed transaction of Catlin.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risks and uncertainties and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 8-K the factors identified in the investor presentation as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for joining our call.
As you are all well aware it’s been a noteworthy few weeks for us and with more news just last week regarding further consolidation a really interesting time for the market as well.
I'm sure you will have some further questions regarding the Catlin acquisition during Q&amp;A.
And I will just say here at the top of the call that well our planning for the integration with Catlin continues and is on track.
We have no further information on this subject to provide at the time.
As David has noted the focus of this call is XL's fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
2014 was a strong year for the company continued the harder and progress we have been delivering and positioning us incredibly well for our exciting next chapter.
Starting with our P&amp;C results our combined ratio of 88.2% was our strongest performance in more than 15 years and a significant improvement from the 92.5% achieved in 2013.
Our P&amp;C loss ratio improved 5 points from 2013 to 57%.
It is a particular note that even in this difficult market our gross premiums written grew 5% year-over-year to $7.8 billion.
We achieved the total underwriting profit of $676 million a 50% increase over the prior year and for the second year in a row we achieved a double-digit ROE 11.2% for the full year excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments.
Results in the quarter itself were equally as positive.
Our ROE in the quarter was 13.7% on the same basis the quarter combined ratio of 84.5% and loss ratio of 52.3% were also among the best quarterly results in the last 15 years.
Underwriting profit in the quarter was $219 million which was a 116% increase over Q4 2013.
Now of course like most of the industry we were helped by an extremely low catastrophe year.
But that does not diminish our -- at all our overall sense of the enormous progress achieved since we put this current strategy in place.
For example we all know that in the last few years this end of the year call has been filled not only with our share of cat losses but other large loss activity that has brought down our full year results.
Now we know that both positive and negative for duty will have its -- also always have its place in this business but we believe are better balanced better underwritten and better position book as you will hear from Pete and Greg is shining through.
From a segment perspective we are proud of what our underwriters achieved in the year while a tough Reinsurance market conditions persist our Reinsurance segment contributed an underwriting profit of $451 million for the year and a 73.3% combined ratio.
Year-over-year gross written premium did decreased but we continue to be disciplined and feel that the results speak for themselves in terms of our willingness to chase -- to not chase terms that fall outside of our approach.
John Welch our acting Head of Reinsurance will have more to say on the segments results in a moment.
Turning to Insurance Greg has at least one more call with us as Head of the Insurance segment and so we won’t overly seeing his presence just yet.
But looking at the full year one maybe does get a sense of the great progress he and his Insurance colleagues have made.
The Insurance segments combined ratio of 94.4% loss ratio of 63.2% and underwriting profit of $225 million are all the best results in these metrics since 2007.
We have more work to do but we like the progress particular the continued improvement of the ex-cat accident year combined ratio which was 95.2% in the year or a 0.5% better than the same result in 2013.
Lastly and especially for our XL colleagues listening to the call I want to make particular note of our innovation drive and we have -- how we have grown our impact on the market through this focus.
According to at least one public tally we issued 31 new product announcements in 2014.
That's a 35% year-over-year increase in new product announcements compared to 2013.
And one of them our North America Construction team's Public/Private Partnership Coverage recently received an innovation award for business insurance.
We have great momentum in creatively addressing risks.
This vital work must continue to accelerate.
In sum we are very pleased with these results and with the progress we have made during these past few years.
The continuing strength of Reinsurance the tangible improvement in Insurance the second year of achieving a double-digit ROE and some of the best financial results we have achieved in 15 years.
We’ve worked hard to get to this point.
We expect this progress to continue and couldn’t be more excited about what is on the horizon.
With that I will turn it to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the fourth quarter was $294 million or a $1.12 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $287 million or $1 per share in 2013.
Operating net income for the full year was approximately a $1 billion or $3.68 per share.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $140 million or $0.53 per share on a fully diluted basis and $188 million or $0.69 per share for the full year.
As we’ve previously discussed our net income is impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivative that transfers the economics of the assets backing our life Reinsurance transaction.
But that derivative movement is completely offset by investment income realized gains and losses and the change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does not impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
As European interest rates have continued to fall we have recorded a derivative loss offset by a book value gain associated with an increase in the market value of the underlying assets.
Our property and casualty combined ratio for the quarter of 84.5% was 8.8 points lower than the same quarter last year and the full year’s 88.2% was 4.3 points lower than the prior year.
Our accident year combined ratio for the quarter of 91.4% was lower by 5.9 points while the full year’s 92.6% was lower by 4.7 points.
This improvement was largely driven by lower levels of catastrophe losses and the impacts from our underwriting actions that Greg and John will discuss further.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $32 million which was split $18 million and $14 million between our Insurance and Reinsurance segment.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2013 totaled $94 million.
For the full year 2014 natural catastrophe losses were $113 million compared to $317 million in 2013.
Prior year reserve development in the quarter was a net favorable $97 million compared to $61 million for the same quarter in 2013.
This reflects favorable development of $35 million and $62 million in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments resulting from our fourth quarter detailed ground-up reserve review.
For all of 2014 development was a net favorable $255 million or 4.5 loss ratio points a slight decrease compared to $290 million or 4.9 loss ratio points for 2013.
Consistent with previous indications excluding the impact of foreign exchange and performance-based compensation operating expenses for the year were 4.5% higher than in 2013.
During the quarter operating expenses were up 13.3% compared to the same quarter last year.
However this was almost entirely due to the impact of our favorable results on our various compensation plans.
We continue to focus on balancing cost efficiency with continued investments in our infrastructure underwriting teams and strategic opportunities.
As is been the case throughout the year our increased use of Reinsurance will continue to impact the reported operating expense ratio as ceding commissions which cover all expenses are generally reported on the acquisition expense line.
For 2015 excluding the impact of the Catlin transaction we estimate that our operating expenses will grow by a percentage in the low single digits.
Turning to investment performance at a $172 million net investment income on the portfolio was $68 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction.
The gross book yield in the portfolio at the end of December was 2.7%.
When compared with the average Q4 new money rate of 1.7% we expect that net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we've approximately $3 billion of assets with book yields of 3% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager affiliates was $21 million for the quarter down $56 million from an exceptional prior year quarter.
The XL property and casualty investment portfolio returned 1% for the quarter and 4.8% for the year.
The mark-to-market for the quarter was $94 million including net realized gains of $13 million driven primarily by sales of equities.
This compares to net realized gains of $12 million in Q4 2013.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1.1 billion of the end of the fourth quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio remained at 3.8 years.
Effective tax rate on net income available to ordinary shareholders for the full year was 34% and for the fourth quarter was 21.5%.
These rates are higher than prior year due to the impact of the loss recognized on the life reinsurance transaction and subsequent net loss on the related derivative both of which have little or no tax benefit.
On an operating basis our effective tax rate for the full year was 12% and for the fourth quarter was 10%.
With respect to capital management during the fourth quarter we purchased 5.2 million shares for $175 million at an average price of $33.82 per share.
For the year we purchased and consolidated total of 24.7 million shares for $800 million at an average price of $32.40 per share leaving $267.6 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
While we continue to see share buyback as a valuable capital management tool we pulled our purchases at the end of November and in the completion of our proposed acquisition of Catlin Group.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our Insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Today I will cover results for the segment provide some color on our progress during the year and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Starting with the results 2014 was Insurance’s segment most profitable years since 2007 generating nearly $100 million more underwriting profit than last year.
The accident year combined ratio was 96.9% compared to 99.4% in 2013.
And this year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the accident ex-CAT cat loss ratio of 63.9% which was 2 full points better than prior year.
The fourth quarter marked our eighth consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing a calendar quarter combined ratio of 93.8% compared to 96.7% in the same quarter last year and an accident quarter ex-cat loss ratio of 63.5% which is 2 points better than prior year.
The results also benefited from another quarter of favorable CAT activity which contributed 0.5 point to the improvement.
This is mostly offset by slightly lower prior year development even though we recognized $35 million of prior year releases.
The underwriting expense ratio was 31.9% in the fourth quarter reflecting a deterioration of 0.4 points from prior year mainly due to an increase in variable compensation.
Excluding variable pay the underwriting expense ratio actually improved by more than 2 points in the quarter versus prior year and by 0.4 points on a full year basis.
As mentioned previously the actions we've taken to shift towards quarter should increase the number of our businesses and to store the comparisons of our acquisition and operating expense ratio to prior year.
This quarter shares have increased ceding commission income reducing our acquisition ratio by 2.6 points in the quarter but net earned premiums probably contributing to a 3 point higher operating expense ratio.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by $432 million or 8% for the full year and $195 million or 15% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
While approximate one third of the growth in the quarter was driven by a few large transactions and timing the general trajectory reflects the continued build-out in many of our businesses.
Roughly half of our growth was led by our North American Construction Global Risk Management Marine International Financial Lines businesses.
In addition to these lines we also have material growth in our E&amp;S Cyber Political Risk and Crisis Management teams.
With the exception of our international Onshore Energy and Lloyd’s middle market books which we shrank as a result of underwriting changes due to underperformance.
Only the Surety business was down materially relative to prior year quarter and this book was up nearly 50% for the full year.
While markets are increasingly competitive for many of our businesses we continue to see increased submission flow and a higher growth ratio reflecting our positive momentum in a large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to ongoing progress as mentioned earlier we experienced a two-point improvement in our accident year ex-CAT loss ratio relative to 2013 despite experiencing a 25% increase in large short-tail losses in 2014.
Our ability to improve our overall accident year ex-CAT loss ratio while absorbing increased large losses is evidence of the improving profitability of our underlying book.
This improvement is a result of our ongoing focus on an improved mix of business and continued execution of underwriting actions.
For the full year nearly 60% of our gross premium is better than or within five points of our target combined ratio.
Of the remaining 40% roughly half is in line that we continue to build out such as Crisis Management Political Risk International Financial Lines.
As these businesses are still in growth mode there is an expense drag which impacts the return while the businesses get to scale.
With regards to remaining 20% or so it’s no longer that entire business is below target.
Rather it’s certain portfolios within these businesses that we continue to focus our re-underwriting efforts.
In addition our rigorous process of identifying implementing and measuring our underwriting action again yielded a one-point improvement in our segment loss ratio during 2014.
Regarding talent this quarter we appointed Greg Bangs to lead our Global Crime business.
Donna Nadeau was promoted Chief Underwriting Officer in North America.
And we added June Dwyer to our distribution network team.
In addition to these deployments we continued the expansion of our underwriting talent.
We strengthened our Cyber business.
International Financial lines expanded its merger and acquisition business.
Aerospace expanded its capability in China.
And we continue to make investments in Brazil with the addition of several new team members across multiple businesses.
For the year we increased our underwriting workforce by nearly 10% as we continue to build our businesses around the world.
Turning to market conditions we saw a continued slowing in rate across more lines of business as the overall rate change to the segment was down only 1% in the fourth quarter and up 0.5% on a year-to-date basis.
That said two-thirds of our businesses ended the year with positive rate.
In the fourth quarter our international P&amp;C business achieved rate in excess of 1% with only our Lloyd's middle-market businesses in red figures.
Our North American and Professional businesses were both down just under 1% driven by 5% reduction in North American property and continued softening in U.S.
excess D&amp;O.
Our specialty business continue to be more severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of two points largely reflecting continued competitive conditions for Marine and Offshore Energy as well as disappointing Aviation market which was broadly flat.
Finally while we once again benefited from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter and year 2014 was a solid year.
We continue to remix our businesses growing higher margin businesses capitalized on reinsurance efficiency and as Mike noted boosted our innovation efforts paying in 2015 despite pricing headwinds we're as well positioned as we've ever been for continued success.
And now to John to discuss reinsurance results.
Thanks Greg and good evening.
I’d like to cover two principal issues tonight review of our Q4 and full-year results and also some comments on recent renewal season and market conditions.
With respect to the fourth quarter we had a combined ratio of 61.2% producing and an underwriting profit of $156 million.
This compares favorably to the combined ratio of 85.1% and an underwriting profit of $66 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
During the quarter we had the benefit of prior year releases of $62 million and catastrophe losses of $14 million net of reinstatement premiums.
The major contributors to the CAT activity in the quarter were development on September floods in India and Hurricane Odile.
Q4 2013 included a prior year release of $21 million and catastrophe losses of $71 million net of reinstatement premiums.
With respect to the year-over-year movement in favorable PYD it is worth noting that Q4 reflects the semiannual reserve review for XL Re America and that Q4 2013 reflected an unusual strengthening of $31 million for Spanish surety losses.
Excluding the impact of prior year releases and CAT losses the segment produced a combined ratio of 73% which compares to the 73.6% in Q4 of 2013.
Turning to topline in the quarter gross written premiums were $158 million or 3.9% decrease over Q4 2013.
The decrease was primarily driven by non-renewal activity in our U.S.
casualty treaty book and FX impacts partially offset by growth in international casualty treaty property facultative U.S.
property treaty and crop.
For 2014 the segment produced an outstanding combined ratio of 73.3% and an underwriting profit of $451 million which compares the 81.4% combined ratio and underwriting profit of $325 million in 2013.
This result was impacted by catastrophe losses of $45 million in prior year reserve releases of $155 million compared to 2013 where we had CAT losses of $198 million and reserve releases of $188 million.
Excluding the impact of both CAT losses and prior year releases we had a combined ratio of 79.8% compared to 80.6% in 2013.
Our year-to-date gross written premium was down 5.7% to $1.8 billion as we continue to manage our way through very competitive trading conditions.
Turning to market conditions given another light year for cap loss activity and continued growth in reinsurance capacity for these risks we experienced another competitive January 1 renewal season.
Rates adjusted down 7.5% to 15% on the U.S.
CAT book and we’re down 6% to 15% for the international CAT book.
In addition to price we saw terms and conditions loosen to some degree.
Specifically there was pressure on hourly clauses and reinstatement provisions.
Within the U.S.
CAT book this pressure resulted in some incremental increases in coverage and the amount was minor across the book and is captured in the risk-adjusted rate decreases.
Outside the U.S.
the vast majority of renewals saw no loosening with respect to these terms.
From a structural perspective there was increased interest in multiyear contracts expanded geographic scope and placements with aggregate features.
With respect to long tail and specialty markets the environment is extremely competitive and pressure remains on both reinsurance pricing and terms and conditions.
This continues to be true commission structures on proportional placements.
In addition we saw slight deterioration loss ratios for long tail lines as rate increases fell short of loss trend.
We continue to navigate our way cautiously through this phase of the market and our trading with long-standing clients with proven track records.
Despite the difficult market conditions our underwriting teams maintain their discipline and did an excellent job retaining profitable business and finding new opportunities.
Our long-standing trading relationships allowed us to write a January 1 portfolio that was largely in line with our expectations from both the mix and profitability perspective.
With that I will turn it back to David for Q&amp;A.
And Shirley you can open the line for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Yeah evening.
A couple of questions here for you.
The first one you talked about continuing to make infrastructure investments in the organization.
Wonder if you could elaborate what are those investments right now? And does the proposed acquisition cost you took kind of slow down on any of those at this point? This is Mike Brian.
First of all we still do have some technology platform stuff that we’re building out.
We have one underlying platform around our financial close systems that we call enterprise enablement EE and that is well underway.
And I think that most of the functionality wraps up in the next year.
And that one will be useful whether there is an integration or not.
The second with respect to underwriters we have been building out a global underwriting platform for certain of our businesses that have common processes.
That's one where there could -- the integration could have an impact on how we choose to proceed on those and those issues are not yet resolved.
So there could be changes in some of what's forecasted depending on choices that are made by the integration teams in the next weeks and months.
Great.
Thanks.
And then the second question Mike I am just curious how are you right now mitigating any kind of distraction with the new organization is with respect to this pending acquisition? Well we've all bought really huge whips.
I mean look the reality is this is a very difficult time for our colleagues at XL and for our hope to be colleagues at Catlin.
It’s distracting it’s confusing this is people's livelihoods and we take that very very seriously.
At the same time we know very well that our colleagues know that we made a commitment to our Board about the plan for 2015 and we continue to work to deliver it.
And if there is one thing that I've never had any doubt about it it’s about the work I think and the intelligence of our colleagues.
They both see the importance of the commitments they make and they carry those into the marketplace.
And I think when going to their intelligence a little bit it's hard not to observe that.
If you have a two companies coming together you’re probably going to want to make sure you put your best foot forward.
And that includes staying focused and delivering.
So people are in the sense really showing us that they have the ability to perform under difficult circumstances that's an important credential that they are advertising to us into their future colleagues.
So as I travel around and meet with our colleagues you have that underlying sensibilities but you also have the real sense of commitment and the devotion to going forward with the firm and that works together I think to keep everybody focused.
I would add one more thing too having these other transactions recently announced kind of both affirms our strategy very clearly that was a nice thing.
But I think it also causes all of our colleagues to say ghee you know there's something really exciting going on right where I work right now and rest of the market seems to be in some turmoil too.
So all of a sudden I think you're more focused on what you can do to help your existing employer and the future employer that’s been created.
So I think that all works together to create a group of very focused and dedicated people.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good evening everyone.
I was hoping there might be a possibility of getting a little more granular on the operating expenses which are obviously elevated compared to a year ago but not so much compared to last quarter.
What's comp related what’s infrastructure related and what would we think would probably go away in the future? I am going to start and then pass it over to Pete.
And I promise Pete I won’t give the whole answer.
The most important thing I'd say is as the year ended we want to kind of spot on to what we said we would do for the year.
And we said that ex-FX and comp related movements that we would be right around mid-single digits I think we came out almost spot on 5.
So I feel very good that as we try very hard to do that we did what we said we would do.
But I think that -- and that of course always did include these other strategic investments.
As I said earlier it's too early to tell exactly how those wall shake out.
But when I step back you heard Greg referenced the fact that there continues to be an expense drag on building out those newer lines of business that we think are embodied the important remixing of lowering our overall combined and loss ratios.
And that's one of the expense tracks that we think we can cheer right away through our combination with Catlin.
Just as I've talked before about the fact that similarly when it comes to the expense of their this is Catlin’s building out of a global platform that we can rationalize a lot of expense there.
So it's not just in the sort of what you're spending on tech categories that we can get synergies those are meaningful.
It is also more about the fundamental nature of the strategies of the two companies and how they fit together.
Sure.
So Josh just -- and yes Mike you did leave me a piece so thank you for that.
Of the expenses in the quarter so I would think about call it ballpark $40 million compared to last year would have been the variable compensation increase okay so just to give you a magnitude there.
And then on your question about the strategic expenses I think the best way I could take you through the numbers a little bit.
And we said this before if you look at our corporate expense line and again this is not how we manage the expenses a couple we manage them in total.
But if you look at the corporate expense line we said in the past that approximately a third to 40% of that number is what we call the strategic initiatives and the rest would be an allocation of corporate that we don't allocate to the businesses.
As you look at that 33% to 40% number Mike talked about a couple of those initiatives that in place -- that are in place and the one that he mentioned on EE as he said that one we are hoping to start to -- we are delivering we’ve already started delivering the benefits of that.
We will continue that through 2015.
And at that point in time we would expect that the spending on that would go down pretty significantly.
Okay.
That’s a great answer.
And one question for Mike.
If you look out you said on the call and you said in the press release these are some of the best results we’ve seen excel in 15 years and that’s true.
Interest rates are low here.
One argument would be that because interests are low everyone is buttoned up and is playing bowl and that’s created a very healthy environment for PMC.
The other argument would be that these are trough results and when interest rates go up you will see ROEs rise for XL and the industry.
Where do these results fit in the view of where you think results will be for X on the industry two three years from now in a mortgage rate normal environment? That’s a really interesting question.
And I am sure as heck I knew the answer.
But I will give you a couple of perspectives.
Number one several years ago when Greg and others and we're all working on the strategy we could see that this interest rate environment was going to be persistent.
We have in-house committee of various disciplines that does interest rate forecasting and they have been consistently along with the rest of world saying this is not some temporary phenomenon this is going to take a long time to resolve.
And so we made a very aggressive decision back then that we were going to focus on that in essence the action in your loss ratio and everything else too but really really focus on delivering a great underwriting results as the driver of results.
And our progress has of course had to come from that because we’ve been mixing toward a lower investment return for a long time and it continues.
So I think much of the market has adopted that same discipline to various degrees.
At the same time especially with what's going on in the reinsurance sector we see a tremendous amount of capital being brought to bear.
So that has a countervailing effect on discipline out there because especially just imagine you talk some group and they are giving you a billion of capital put to work.
You want to put it to work somehow.
And so they're trying to outwit the market outwitting a market we would submit is always a very very difficult thing especially if you don’t have the kinds of long-term relationships and capabilities that a firm like XL and others bring to bear.
So as I look at it I do think obviously when we get to the inflection point and assuming we do start to see some rise in interest rates and the contribution thereby to the earnings I think you’re coming off of such a disciplined period.
I do not expect that all of the sudden everyone will go crazy.
If fact far from it I think discipline and underwriting is going to run on because that’s how people are used to working now and they're getting a lot of reward for working that way.
And I don't expect it will suddenly change on a dime because somehow there's some interest-rate based cash flow coming on.
So I'm hopeful that this discipline will be retained and there will be something we can build on.
As proud as we are of these results we’re completely mindful that only in these last couple of years that we’re beating our cost of capital.
This is a solid return and in the spectrum of things going on a really positive development but by no means is where we think ourselves or the industry should be performing especially as interest rates normalize.
So I would hope that discipline will last beyond what required in the first place.
Thank you for the extended answer.
And good luck on the integration or hopefully the closing of the deal with Catlin.
Thank you very much Josh.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Thank you.
And Mike condolences to Seahawks I assume you would run the bowl.
This would have been a great question.
I was so happy that they decided not to hold the Super Bowl this year.
Two questions.
One you mentioned some pretty good growth in your cyber markets and you are adding to the team there.
Just wondering when you go into a new market like how is it that you can -- seems like it will be easy to grow but there is a lot of risk you’re taking on and how do you limit the risk how do you know what you're getting into? I’m going to ask Greg to expand but the simple answer is low limits and a broad dispersion of clients.
That would be the whole answer.
No we’ve been added for -- this will be the fourth year in existence and the third second -- two and a half years are really going in a much bigger way at it.
Mike is absolutely right we keep our limits very low both on a gross basis normal maximum there is $10 million and we buy quota share protection take that down to $5 million so very small limits.
As you probably know it’s also -- I’m proud of the work the team does.
I'm proud of the both the underwriting they do and the services they provide their clients but it is a fairly scaled down product.
There isn’t broad disruption there.
There isn’t broad physical damage.
It’s effectively a breach and how they get our clients customers back up on their credit agreement and back restored to health.
So from that perspective we also stay away from in general kind of the big-box retailers and some of the other larger exposures in that space.
So it’s a combination of low limits good spread good expertise to help clients and a big good broad industry distribution.
Okay.
Thank you.
One other question I had is we -- and thank you for the discussion over January 1 renewals but notably the talk with Catlin was happening over the renewal period.
To what degree do you think that affected? How your renewals without much of an impact on what your volumes will look like this year? My view is no but I ask John to elaborate.
That is the correct answer.
We saw no impact of the leak with the announcement.
Okay.
Listening to your overview of where pricing was it although it sounded it would be reasonable of us to expect that your Reinsurance volumes this year will be down.
It sounded something like 5% to 10% or so? We don't actually and never have gotten into specifics of the renewal season in terms of the size of portfolio or how we allocated our capital.
But I can say that the pricing environment was difficult.
But we've always got a couple of things going on as well.
So how exactly that will shakeout by the time all the renewals finish out.
But too early to tell but I'm feeling that the group did a very nice job of handling some really difficult conditions.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the call.
So Mike you made difficult for us as we all want to ask some forward-looking questions but you don’t want to talk about the deal? So I’m going to try to stay big picture.
I’m thinking about your future capital leverage your capital levers and operating leverage and reinsurance strategies and I’m trying to build my model for the next few years and I’m wondering if you give us some bit more conceptual sense that how you think is likely to change? Even if only directionally we really love to get a better handle of what kind of strategy you think you are going to pursue on out of reinsurance spend? And then big picture if there are actually meaningful opportunities for basically capital leverage from either diversification or sort of the capital benefit from using Lloyd's unique platform? Yeah.
You’ve really excited the number of the things we're looking at very hard.
I can’t help you too much with the models at this stage because we’re still building ours but I would give you a few thoughts in terms of detail now as opposed to headlines.
I give you a few thoughts one you observe correctly that Lloyd is a very efficient platform.
I think there are -- it sufficient in terms of capital it’s difficult in terms of expense so it's a double-edged sword.
And you can find that amongst the mix of businesses we have that there are things that would be better or worse in that environment and our view of the way they have been -- I'd say it simply Catlin has always needed to and been more efficient that its capital use and we’ve admired that in them.
And when we see how Lloyd's used and think about our products we're looking for the right mix to take advantage of that capital framework and the right mix to move away from that expense very much.
So there is all kinds of really interesting optimization exercises going on.
You can say the same thing from a diversification point of view.
Sometimes its product specification but sometimes its geographic diversification and we’re going to have a much bigger spread of geographic dispersion through which to work with and a whole set of different legal entity structures which also have efficiency that can be gained as those are optimized.
So I think what you're hearing is we have a whole bunch of new tools available the way the whole thing comes together.
And I think I know that both teams are entering their work very mindful of what they can do to make sure that the very most efficient platform comes out the backend.
And I can only tell you that from a personal point of view as I’ve -- as we get deeper into the detail I get more excited about the possibilities.
There are many of these things that had no bearing on how we price the deal or the kinds of returns that we have promised the marketplace.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And just I think it’s a question for Pete its very numbers question and I apologies if you have addressed this earlier and I somehow missed it.
But I wondered if you could walk us through some of the math behind this quarter's paid to incurred ratio and you guys disclose this to your credit but it’s an awfully higher number and you’re growing in the numbers way above one.
I’m wondering if there is something unique going on with your seeding strategy or remixing or something that’s leading it not have to fund the same level of reserves as you have in the past or whether maybe this is just like some one-time this is due to some one-time factors that benefited the quarter? So Josh this is Pete.
Let me address that.
So there were two drivers for the high paid to incurred in the current quarter.
So you're exactly right your analysis is spot on.
One was an exceptionally low level of incurred losses in the Reinsurance segment as John talked about.
And the second was a higher level of paid losses in the Insurance segment.
And so what we give you in the financial supplement is the total but if you broke them out you would see those individual segments and we’re happy to provide that if you like it.
The low-level of incurred losses in Reinsurance reflects a lack of both the attritional and lodge natural peril catastrophe losses in 2014 as well as the favorable PYD that we booked in the quarter.
And on the Insurance side the high level of paid losses they reflects really more than a one quarter's worth of paid losses that we use.
We process more of our cash receipts near the month end and we talked about the finance infrastructure projects Mike mentioned it.
As this comes online right as we’ve been taking about this this is now coming online and it’s improved our ability to process elements of our close closer to the period end.
So in realty there is more than three months in that -- in this quarter paid losses and those two comprise the entire difference taking those two out its right about 100%.
Got it.
Thank you thanks for the clarification.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
Good evening and congratulations on the quarter.
I wanted to ask about currency and we’ve seen a lot of companies with some pretty big currency impacts on their book value.
Did I miss it or didn’t look like there was much of an impact for you folks? No there wasn’t that much.
I mean if you look at what our exposed currency we manage our currencies conservatively.
We have a natural hedge on our legal -- this is Pete.
We have a natural hedge on our legal entities that would be denominated in other currencies.
We’ve got a very strict rule on how much risk we will take on those balance sheets right.
And so at the end the only currencies that we expect to flow through would be the retained earnings at the legal entities that would be in currencies denominated in other than U.S.
dollars.
And for us it just was not that big of a transaction.
So we do have an active hedge program where we have a mandatory amount of VaR that we’ll allow.
Interesting.
I have a certainly different question.
In some of the European countries the interest rates have gotten extremely low and in some cases the government rates are actually negative.
I think most companies I would imagine you are the same since we tried to back liabilities in those current -- those currencies in those areas in assets that are in the same country.
What do you do now that in some areas there is essentially no return on the available assets? All right.
So Paul this is Pete.
I’ll take it again because it’s a continuation of the comment about natural hedge that we have.
And so yes indeed when we are in locations where the reserves are in a currency we are likely to have the assets in those same currencies.
And clearly investing in euro and Swiss franc asset today is challenging given that there are negative yields going out six years on the bonds and 12 years on the Swiss francs.
Given our ALM matching approach we invest in those portfolios quite a while ago and we expected reinvestment amounts over the next 12 months is only about $380 million.
So we don't see this as a huge headwind in the near-term.
So far we've mostly avoided buying bonds of negative yields.
We've been able to invest incorporates covered bonds and other high-quality ABS as well as European government agency paper all of which pay a credit spread.
So it generates some positive yield.
But it will be an increasing -- increasingly different difficult challenge if this negative yield environment is sustained.
Right so at 12/31 the average book yield of our yield portfolio was 1.7% and the average market yield of our benchmark in euros is probably 0.4%.
And so over time you would expect those two numbers to converge.
But as I talked about we will maintain our current matching philosophy.
We are not in the business of taking unhedged FX Risk.
We’ll maintain our overall investment strategy discipline not stretch the yield.
The last thing I’d say is as a result of the life transaction we are in a different place where we are a lot less sensitive than we used to be right given the sale of our European block of business there.
Yeah Paul I would just add a couple of thought.
First I’d underscore the last point Pete made that transaction continues to really look like one of the really good achievements of the year and this is another case of why.
The second thing I would observe is in a variety of the international forums that I've been in particularly with my banking friends lately the impact of interest rates on insurance business models is getting more and more attention than the central banking system.
And I'm hopeful that they will start to take into account that impact as well as the other stimulative impact that they see and come to more balanced solutions over time.
Great.
Thanks and condolences on the Super Bowl.
Thanks.
That’s too.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
You may ask your question.
Hey good evening.
Thank you I have a couple this is -- just first one is just following up on what Brian Meredith was asking on and as far as the workforce is concerned I think Mike touched on it.
But I think I am going to ask it more exclusively and that is with your transaction and the other large merger out there.
It seems to me that there might be excess supply of labor in a lot of your key markets.
And so is that something that when you are doing your ongoing talent searches that you are feeling now already in the market? Well.
I think right now it wouldn’t be fair to judge the marketplace right now on some snapshot basis because with our two workforces working toward coming together I don't think this is going to be a -- we are not going to have a unaffected view of how the labor markets working.
We will not have as many people.
I think that reaching out to us as we’ve had recently until the dust settles somewhat because they know that there is uncertainty.
I think the larger point to me is that there I think that while there is always going to be a really meaningful competition for talent in our sector because great underwriters and underwriting leadership great actuarial talent these folks are hard to find.
And when you find them you try to get them in your organization and keep them as long as you can.
And so I don't think that piece of it will change even if there was dramatically more integration across the sector because the really great talent really isn’t in oversupply.
The second thing I would say though is it does I think change the mentality of the workforce going through integration.
If you thought your situation was the only difficult situation around.
And therefore it became tempting to go to some other organization and feel safer I don't think that mentality is going to be very much in play right now.
It’s going to be difficult to go somewhere where you're safe from all of this because I think it's going to take a while to play out.
And again I don't want to overstate it but I think it makes our people very mindful of the great opportunity we are creating at XL and [Cal] [ph].
And I think when those two firm -- when these two firms come together it's just going to be a real powerhouse in the large complex risk space.
And in a world where risk solutions are becoming more and more complex where risk mutates more rapidly being a part of the firm that is doing the really creative hard work of making sure our clients are well protected I can’t imagine a place I'd rather be as an underwriter and that's exactly what we are trying to create.
And so I just think I can only comment kind of the -- on the impact of our own colleagues.
But I think they are going to really want to be a part of it and I’m going to be excited.
I know Steven is to create as many opportunities for that kind of wonderful opportunity as we can.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
And just one other follow-up and this is from what I think Paul Newsome was just talking about.
We ended up getting the book yield and the new money yield on your European or foreign book.
But can you just provide the similar percentages for the overall book or I guess the domestic book however you would communicate it? We’ve done well.
You’ve got Pete reaching for a file.
So he is looking for a number.
No.
I think it’s in the -- yeah it was -- I covered in the script.
Let me just go back and cover it again.
So we had 3% -- and so we had that new money rate of 1.7% and our average book yield was 2.7%.
2.7%.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
Good evening.
One basic question.
Just wanted to make sure I understand it.
When you’ve got dramatic foreign exchange changes does that itself produce some of the reserve development that you reported in the quarter or are those two categories completely distinct? No.
Meyer could you repeat the question? I couldn’t hear it.
Yeah.
Let me try again I am sorry I am having phone call for awhile.
When -- I don’t know the euro weakens dramatically against the dollar? Does that translate -- does that produce reserve development when your euro liabilities now require few dollars to fund them? No.
It would not.
So the FX movements will go to the currency translation line and that would not be reported as part of the prior year development.
Okay.
So Meyer so if you look at our income statement and you saw the FX in the income statement that would be large portion of it would be the re-denomination of those liabilities.
Okay.
No.
That’s perfect.
I just want to make sure that I understood that.
We haven’t talked about Berkshire Hathaway in awhile? But now that’s company Berkshire Hathaway specialty has gotten sort of settled? Are they are more relevant competitive for us than they were a year ago than anything to concern you? No.
I’ve -- we have expected anything that that crowd puts its line to we expect them to do well.
We certainly notice them a bit more.
But I can’t say that that they have a history of being really disciplined underwriters.
So I don’t think there is anything other than another competitor on one hand that’s going to grow and influence overtime but at the same time what I expect will be a continuing consolidation of other players.
So it’s kind of one hand on the other hand but in the end I don’t -- I haven’t seen any real distortion in the marketplace because of their presence.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Thanks very much guys.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Ryan Byrnes with Janney Capital.
You may ask your question.
Great.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good evening everybody.
Just wanted to touch I think Greg’s comment earlier on the Insurance segment.
I think you guys stated that there were -- large losses were 25% higher than last year and obviously last year there was a lot of volatility in the underlying loss ratio but we didn’t see it this year? So I was just wondering if you could help us give us a little bit more color on what kind of impact it did had this year on a percentage basis and see what the -- why those losses persisted and can you get Reinsurance coverage more favorably heading into next year? Sure Ryan.
It’s Greg Hendrick.
So from a dollar perspective when we look at large losses we are looking at over $10 million for property and energy.
Last year we had at the end of the accident year so the end of the 12 months as reported we had $110 million or about 2.6 plus ratio points.
So ’14 we had $132 million or 3.3 points.
So 0.7 higher loss ratio impact from large losses but we still improved our accident year cat by 2 points.
That’s quite simple.
All that hard work I have been talking about of re-mixing re-underwriting and really gaining a much more profit underlying portfolio there isn’t any one two or three things I’ve point you on the one that I’ve reiterated in the past.
So for us when I look at the losses I don’t see anything that could give me trouble about what we underwrote how we underwrote it the line size and so I feel like we are -- there is great amount of volatility.
If I gave you the last five years in terms of count we have had 27 267 at the end of the 12-month accident year period.
So quite a bumpy up and down that is part of the volatility we might turn -- talked about earlier.
On reinsurance we did put in place an arrogant risk protection at May 1.
That has -- we have contributed number of these losses against there got deductible so from here for the remainder of that treaty period we will have a lot less volatility where we had experienced more loss in the first part of next year.
As far as May 1 goes we will see when we get there about the Reinsurance purchasing.
As things are at the moment we don’t expect any problems with our reinsurance treaty renewals.
Great.
That’s great color.
Thank you.
And then my last question is were there any one-time Catlin expenses in the fourth quarter and I guess should we anticipate any go-forward? Hey Ryan.
It’s Pete.
There was diminish amount is approximately $2 million of Catlin expenses in the quarter and really I think we are unable to give you much guidance for what we are going to see in the future I apologies.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman from Balyasny.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thank you.
Pete I have -- I notice something about your Reinsurance segment in Q4 last year as I didn’t notice this until today? But sequentially the accident year was about 10 points better than the first three quarters and the same thing happened last year and the same thing in 2012 before that that never happened.
Is there some seasonality in Q4 in your Reinsurance accident year or are you doing true-ups on your pick and that’s been to your benefits in the past two years or is there some reason in Q4s a lot better than the rest of the year? So yes I will let John talk about that.
There was some seasonality there.
Sure.
Okay.
But essentially the process is to take a look at the accident year in the fourth quarter and revert to actual reported activity.
And so what you're seeing in the last few years is the actual CAT activity running much better than expected.
I’d called attritional CAT activity running much better than expected and then that's brought into the actuarial methods and essentially there's a release across the year for that activity.
Got it.
Okay.
So for that -- so I shouldn’t necessarily build that it for next year unless a sense of being like a CAT year again? Right.
And just to give you a sense for the fourth quarter the impact of that activity was about 8.2 points.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then on the incentive comp was there a bigger impact on Reinsurance proportionally than insurance? It looked like there was a bigger increase in the Reinsurance expense ratio year-over-year than the Insurance increase? Yeah.
Proportionally there would be.
I mean the way we work our incentive comp is highly aligned to localized results and clearly the Reinsurance results were genuinely outstanding.
Got it.
Okay.
And then my last one on the Insurance segment on pricing.
As you've grown I assume to some extent the new business carries a new business country with it a are you able to -- on renewal essentially get it back to sort of a necessary long-term price or you still in the process of that and how much is that impacted by the overall pressure on rates? I guess I wonder is there sort of another mix benefits to rates beyond just sort of the headline number as you renew new business? Let me start then I’m going to pass it to Greg.
This is Mike.
The one thing I observed is when you set up a new team you often get what I would call honeymoon pricing at the start.
The market is excited to have that team with your firm and they have a lot of relationships that they are leveraging and you can get some surprising good pricing at the outset of the new team being stood up.
So the penalty as it were is less than you might think.
Okay.
Ordinary new business activity.
But Greg you want to comment on the rest of it.
Sure.
Yeah.
I’d say a couple of things.
One is I think I have touched upon in the past.
Quite often it’s the case that this is not new business to the underwriters at XL.
Either we’ve seen it in prior durations at XL or the underwriters have seen it in their prior lines and other operations.
So these aren’t particularly in their large commercial space.
These aren’t brand new unknown risk to us that we are trying to price for you as opposed to what you are trying to underwrite new home or new car on your small business.
The second one is the interesting piece of data.
I have heard others comment on this on their call.
We’ve made a great effort over the last three years to build up our ability to capture rate adequacy in the Insurance segment.
And without fail as we’ve build this process and strengthen it new business prices are better than renewal business.
I’ve heard others comment on that conundrum because in your question I get the same inference which is it must be worse and it just -- the data doesn’t seem do it.
Now that maybe that you don’t know as much about the new business as you do the renewal but I just want to give that point of data to you that there is a stronger price adequacy based on our pricing tools for new versus renewal.
The last thing is I don’t think you should be modeling any kind of return on renewals going forward.
There is so many moving parts in an insurance book.
You are constantly in a good year.
We’re at 85% to 87% retention ratio.
So we’re refilling 13% 15% 20% of the book anyway.
So you’re constantly having new and there’s just too many moving parts to tell you that you are going to get an improvement for that one when the current new business renews.
Got it.
Makes sense.
Thank you for that helpful answer.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Dan Farrell with Sterne Agee.
You may ask you question.
Hi and good evening.
Just a question on growth and insurance I know you said that there were some large accounts added to the growth.
But I was hoping you could give us little more detail within the segments.
What types of lines are driving casualty growth? What types of lines are driving other insurance growth? Sure Dan.
So let me break it down into three parts.
Your first one is the large or timing that I referred to in my comments.
Couple of those are in the Global Risk Management business or U.S.
Risk Management business where we have big gross written premiums where we’re writing a policy over insurance captive and they’re retaining a large part of the risk.
So we’re proud to be successful there in a couple of instances in the quarter.
Our North American Construction team has had some strong growth as well.
There was some premium associated with the retrospective Worker's Comp.
which is not a big part of our insurance book but we do have some of it.
There’s a little bit there.
And the rest of it was a companion that I won’t bore you with a miscellaneous kind of timings and accruals and true-ups that goes on in the normal course of business with insurance.
In terms of the second piece which is we’re growing in businesses I touched on Construction.
Crisis Management had a great quarter as well.
International Financial Lines is another area where we grew strongly.
And if I turn over to geography Brazil we had a really strong quarter in Brazil across a number of different lines of business that is really paying off in our investments down there.
So those are the pieces of the growth year-over-year.
Okay great.
And then just another sort of numbers question on reinsurance purchase in that gross I realize it’s hard for you to comment on what’s going to happen forward with your purchase.
But if we look at the quarterly seasonality you obviously did a lot of purchase in 2Q and then the retention jumps back up in 3Q and 4Q.
Is that the right seasonality on a quarterly basis to think about as it just happened to be? What products are you reinsuring in that particular given quarter? We should have a less seasonality on a normal -- as we reach normal run rate.
This is standalone XL commentary now.
Standalone run rate for reinsurance suited those jumps up and down or when we had certain quota shares renewing in the professional and we’ve talked a bit about this one in July to join for our casualty.
And so what you see there is the effect of the changes that hit the books then and changes that suited -- I’m sorry net to gross retention ratio.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And at this time I will turn the call back over to the speakers for closing remarks.
This is Mike.
I guess three quick things number one our colleagues who often check in on these calls.
I just want to say that we in the leadership group and certainly the board as well are deeply appreciative of the hard work that produces extraordinary results.
And it’s really an exciting time for the firm and exciting time going forward.
We know very well that's an anxious time as well.
And I promise you we are working very very hard to get answers to people as quickly as we can and we will keep at it.
Second to the analyst community I just want to observe that this transaction clearly was surprising to some people and some side as a whole new strategy and other things.
And I just want to thank the community for the open-mindedness you’ve shown to this transaction.
I think it has a lot to say for it and there is a lot we can’t yet say about it.
That’s been frustrating for everyone but I’ve appreciated the open-minded approach that’s been taken.
And third addressed to my beloved Seahawks I love them even more.
They handled the loss with class was pretty cool.
Anyway thank you very much for your time.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.