Good afternoon.
My name is Kelley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc First Quarter Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kelley.
And welcome to XL Group's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
This call is being simultaneously webcast on XL's Web site at www.xlgroup.com.
And we posted to our Web site several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
Please note that public information regarding our proposed acquisition with Catlin Group may be found on our corporate Web site and our transaction specific Web site xl.transactionannouncement.com.
As noted in the offer announcement the UK Takeover Code does not apply to Catlin as it is a Bermuda domicile company.
However due to provisions with respect to the UK Takeover Code and Catlin’s bylaws the parties have agreed to certain matters regarding the application of the UK Takeover Code to the potential transaction.
As we disclosed in previous communication this puts significant constraints around the party’s statements which we hope you can understand and we have Jason Eisenstadt of Goldman Sachs with us this evening as the city code monitor.
On the call this evening Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who’ll offer opening remarks; Pete Porrino XL's Chief Financial Officer who'll review our financial results; followed by Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Insurance Operations and John Welch our Interim Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
And then we'll open it up for questions.
Before we begin I'd like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements including those with respect to XL and the proposed transaction of Catlin.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they're made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response with new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening and thank you for attending tonight’s call.
Obviously the big event we want to talk about is the pending completion of our acquisition of Catlin and as I am sure you are aware our anticipated close date was is as soon as this Friday May 1st.
It is true that at this point we have received all of the necessary regulatory approvals and the approval of Catlin shareholders.
Our last step in fact was sanctioning order by the Spring Court of Bermuda which we received just today.
And while the 1st is so very near it is not yet occurred so all we can share about the transaction remain limited to what we have otherwise publicly disclosed as per the UK City Code on Takeovers.
Tonight therefore the call will focus on XL’s first quarter results and is our intention to hold the transaction focus conference call currently scheduled for May 28th.
On that call on May 28th we intent to give you a sense of the post call integration process share with you our impressions of the first month of combined operations and provide you with some information to support your modeling of XL Catlin as head into the second half of the year and beyond.
As we will still be only in our infancy as a combine company it won’t be everything you want but I think we can at least get to the point where you get the detail that you need to start understanding the company we’re creating.
The only other note I’d offer on integration planning is to say we are very pleased with how the planning process is proceeding we set ourselves an aggressive timeline and have asked much of our colleagues and from our regulators in the past month and they have responded to me and often even exceeded our expectations.
And so to all of the XL and Catlin colleagues listening thank you and soon we’ll be on to the really exciting work of putting into action all of the plans that we have made.
Now as to our first quarter result.
We have said that despite all the Catlin-related activity we would remain focused on delivering XL's 15 plan.
Q2 we are enormously proud of how our XL colleague have responded to the solid start to the year made clear by these results.
P&amp;C combine ratio for the quarter was 88.9% better than the 89.7% of a year ago.
The lost ratio and underwriting profit for the quarter of 58.3% and $148 million were also slight improvement on those metrics from the same quarter a year ago.
Gross written premiums were 2.48 billion for the first quarter versus 2.43 billion of a year ago.
For the businesses both the insurance and re-insurance segments had strong starts for the year and insurance combine ratio of 94.1% was 1.3 points better than the first quarter of 2014 or even more importantly the accident year ex-CAT combined ratio continue to move in the right direction.
93.2% in this quarter versus 94.6% a year ago.
In this his last call of the head of insurance operations pending of course the transaction to close Greg will get into more of the insurance segment results in a few minutes.
In reinsurance while the familiar refrain of being a tough market continued we remain confident in our teams discipline to underwriting in these conditions.
This was again demonstrated in the segment combined ratio of 74.7% an improvement from the 76.3% in the prior year albeit added by a relatively light CAT quarter.
John Welch will provide additional detail in his reinsurance report.
A few final notes before turning it to Pete for additional comments on the financials of the quarter.
First as you would have seen on Monday we released our global lost triangles which we believe illustrate the continued prudence of our reserving approach.
Second you can also now find our 2014 letters to shareholders posted on the Investor Relations section of xlgroup.com.
And third we are very excited about the recent announcement of XL Innovate the XL sponsored venture capital fund we recently launched.
The idea which led to XL Innovates launch is pretty simple.
We want to be able to identify and move swiftly to create model solutions around the new and evolving risk challenges facing the globe.
And once we have created such novel solutions we want to have the flexibility to marry them to the right sources of capital and to bring them to market in a variety of potential forms.
As a result here the scope and the potential for what we think we can accomplish is both broad and very very excited.
In this I'm really pleased that we will be able to have Tom Hutton who has deep insurance and technology expertise to lead the effort of course Tom is a past director of XL as well.
So it’s great to be partnering with him again.
Most recently Tom helped create New Energy Risks new energy and technology and consulting company that partnered with XL uniquely last year to launch an innovative field sell insurance product.
That’s the kind of effort we're seeking to replicate through XL Innovate across a variety of different sectors and risks and as just one more example to how we're pushing to drive for innovation at XL and we think by extension across the industry.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
Operating net income for the first quarter was $194 million or $0.75 per share on a fully diluted bases compare to $239 million in 2014 or $0.85 per share.
We've excluded $25 million in Catlin deal related transaction cost from operating earnings which I will discuss a little later.
Our net income attributable to ordinary sales for the quarter was $36 million or $0.14 per share on a fully diluted basis as we have previously noted our net income numbers are impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that trends to the economics of the asset packing our second quarter 2014 life reinsurance transaction.
However that derivative movement is completely offset by investment income realized gains and losses and a change in the unrealized position of our portfolio and does not impact our net book value operating income or comprehensive income.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
The continued declines in UK and EU interest rate have caused an increase in the value of those assets with an offsetting derivative loss.
Our property and cash combined ratio for the quarter was 88.9% or 0.8 points better in the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combine ratio for the quarter was 92.5% the same as the first quarter of 2014.
Greg and John will discuss our underwriting results in further detail.
For the quarter our natural catastrophes losses totaled $15 million or 1.1 loss ratio points by comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $17 million or 1.2 loss ratio point.
Prior year reserved enrollment in the quarter was a net favorable $48 million or 3.7 loss ratio points compare to $39 million in 2.7 lost ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects favorable development of 6 million and $42 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
Our semiannual full actuarial review will be included in our results next quarter.
As I mentioned we incurred approximately $25 of transaction cost related to the Catlin acquisition.
These are predominantly made up of legal and due diligence fees relating to the transaction totaling approximately 10 million which are included in operating expenses combined with the cost of bridge financing facility of approximately $15 million which is recorded in interest expense.
We continue to expect this transaction to close in the second quarter and therefore we would expect to incur additional deal specific cost in that period.
Excluding this cost operating expenses have decreased 8.7% from the fourth quarter of 2014 due primarily to the impacted variable compensation in last year's fourth quarter number.
Compared to the first quarter in 2014 our operating expenses excluding this cost have increased by approximately 1.5%.
Turning to investment performance the XL investment portfolio returned 1.3% for the quarter including a positive mark-to-market of $95 million.
Included in the quarterly mark-to-market when net realized gains of $5 million this compares to net realized gains of $19 million in the first quarter of 2014.
At $158 million net investment income on the portfolio was $75 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction but also the impact of reinvestment yields and to a lesser extent foreign exchange on the P&amp;C portfolio.
The gross book yield in the portfolio at the end of March was 2.6%.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.3% this was negatively impacted by the purchase of short-dated treasuries as we started to build liquidity to fund the pending Catlin acquisition.
Adjusting for these purchases and more reflective of our ongoing investment activities that new money yield was 1.5%.
Given current yield net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we've approximately $2.9 billion of access with book yield of 2.8% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Unrealized net gains in the portfolio were $1.2 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
The duration of our fixed income portfolio at the end of the quarter was 3.7 years slightly shorter than the previous quarter.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager operating affiliates was $39 million for the quarter down $21 million from the prior year quarter as incentive fees from our investment manager affiliates were not as strong as they have been in the previous year when they had an exceptional quarterly performance.
The investment funds particularly the alternatives portfolio continued to perform well generating $35 million in earnings.
On April 01st 2015 we completed the previously announced sale of all of XL shares in American Strategic Insurance to the [Progress] Corporation.
On March 31 2015 the company's carrying value was $223 million.
XL received approximately $560 million in proceeds from the transaction and will record a gain of approximately $337 million in the second quarter.
With respect to capital management in connection with the proposed acquisition of Catlin on March 30 2015 we issued $500 million of 4.45% 10 year subordinate notes and $500 million of 5.5% 30 year subordinate notes.
These notes were designed to meet Solvency II capital standards for loss absorbency.
To the best of our knowledge this was the first Solvency II debt financing conducted in the U.S.
fixed income market and we’re very pleased with the results.
The net proceeds from the sale of these notes together with cash and cash equivalents from other sources have been deposited in ESCROW to discharge the cash consideration payable to Catlin shareholders in respect with the acquisition.
According XL cancelled the 1.6 billion pound bridge facility effective as of April 08 2015 to avoid future bridge costs.
At December 31 2014 $268 million remained available for purchase under our share buyback program.
We suspended active share buybacks during the first quarter to the close of our proposed acquisition of Catlin.
We will discuss capital management in our May 20th quarter call that Mike referred to.
I will now turn it over to Greg to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete and good evening.
Tonight I’ll cover the results of the segment provide some color on our progress during the quarter and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the first quarter marked our 9th consecutive quarter profitability.
With the segment produced in calendar quarter combined ratio of 94.1% compared to 95.4% in the same quarter last year.
Insurance segment produced a strong accident quarter ex-CAT combined ratio of 93.2% compared to 94.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
This is our best result on this basis since 2007.
This year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by 1 point improvement in the underwriting expense ratio as well as an accident quarter ex-CAT loss ratio of 63.2% which was 0.3 points better than prior year.
The results also benefited from another quarter of favorable CAT activity which contributed 0.2 points to the improvement and this was mostly offset by slightly lower prior year development.
The underwriting expense ratio was 30% in the first quarter reflecting an improvement of 1 full point in the first quarter of last year.
This improvement was largely result of the actions we've taken to shift towards quarter share trades in a number of our businesses improving our acquisition ratio to 8.4% in the first quarter compared to 10.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
As we've discussed previously our operating expense ratio increased by 1.2% partially driven by the quarter share usage.
We have been actively managing our stocking levels as we've completed the build-out phase for many of our businesses.
Our headcount increased by just 1% during the first quarter of the year down from 2.5% increase in the first quarter of last year.
Insurance gross premiums written grew by 169 million or 10.8% in the quarter when adjusted for foreign exchange movement.
All of this has contributed this growth led by North American Property and Casualty our gross premiums were up 16% driven by new business and higher renewal retention in construction Global Risk Management and E&amp;S.
Specialty was up 15% reflecting higher new business in Marine and Offshore Energy and strong retention in crisis management.
International Property and Casualty gross premiums were up 8% to the continued growth in international middle markets an increased new business and primary casualty partially offset by lower premium in property.
And professional is up 6% mostly due to higher new business in our international financial lines business and continued growth in our cyber book.
Underpaying this growth we continue to see an increase in submissions across the segment and quote a higher percent of these submissions reflecting our positive momentum in the large commercial marketplace.
Shifting to ongoing progress as mentioned earlier we experience a 1.4 improvement in our accident year ex-CAT combined ratio relative to the first quarter of 2014 despite competitive market conditions which I’ll talk about in a moment.
We continue to focus on an improved mix of business and ongoing execution of underwriting actions both of which contributed during the quarter.
In addition our measured use of proportionally insurance to strong [seating] commissions our efforts to create operating leverage through efficiencies and rigorous expense management and the increase in the scale of our newer businesses have all contributed to the 1 point improvement in our underwriting expense per share.
While we continue to pull this leverage and have delivered continued improvement over the past few years we strongly believe that the XL Catlin transaction will allow us to pull these levels even harder and accelerate our progress towards top quintile performance.
Turning to market conditions we saw continuation of our reported during the second half of 2014.
First quarter pricing is flat and slightly negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for the segment was minus 0.2%.
As the momentum has clearly continue to slow 13 of our 23 businesses have price decreases compare to only 6 in the first quarter of last year and overall pricings are now lagging trend by just under 2 points.
In the first quarter our professional businesses achieved rate increases just over 1% driven by our Cyber and miscellaneous professional businesses.
Our international P&amp;C were flat with slight increases in cash [indiscernible] markets offset by slight decreases in property.
Our North American specialty business continue to be most severely impacted with an overall rate decrease of one to two points larger reflecting continued competitive conditions in property and aviation lines respectively.
Finally while we once again benefitted from a relatively quiet catastrophe quarter we delivered another solid quarter of underlying profitability and more importantly we continued our ongoing trajectory of underwriting improvement.
Had a great run over the past three years steady improvement resulted from a hard work of a great group of colleagues and while this moment is a little bitter-sweet for me and I turn over the reins to Paul [indiscernible] I feel strong as this segment is well positioned for continued success.
Combine their leadership with a high caliber of the combined XL Catlin Insurance team the segment is poised to delivered continued improvement in our results.
Now the John will discuss reinsurance results.
Thank you Greg and good evening.
The Reinsurance segment got off to another excellent start in 2015 with the combined ratio of 74.7% and resulting underwriting profit of 90 million for the quarter.
This compares with the combine ratio of 76.3% and the underwriting profit of 100 million for the first quarter of 2014.
We had the benefit of the light quarter of catastrophe activity and continued favorable reserve runoff.
Considering the competitive landscape we are pleased with how the portfolio performed in the first quarter.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were 42 million or 11.9 points compared with 30 million or 7.2 points a year ago.
The current quarter release was entirely driven by favorable run-off in short tail lines of business.
The year-over-year improvement was produced by the property catastrophe line.
Excluding prior year development portfolio generated a combine ratio of 86.6% which compares to the 83.5% produced in the first quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio rose 1.7 points to 54.7% for the quarter.
The primary drivers of the loss ratio increase were one-time premium reductions and prior underwriting years and underlying rate deterioration with a partial offset due to an improved mix of business.
There was no impact from catastrophe losses for the first quarter in the current or prior year.
Turning top-line gross written premium for the quarter was 826 million down from 858 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The impact of FX on gross written premium year-over-year was a reduction of 54 million or 6.2%.
Excluding the impact of FX the 2.5% growth in the quarter was primarily driven by the specialty crop insurance book and a few new opportunities in U.S.
casualty treaty for which we are the lead reinsurer.
The net earn premium experienced a year-over-year reduction of 63 million or 15% 18 million or 4.4 points related to the impact of FX with the remainder driven by the decline in net premium during 2014.
This decline was driven by the property catastrophe and casualty lines.
Turning to market conditions we experienced deteriorating rate adequacy across all lines and regions during the first quarter.
The largest magnitude of deterioration was experience in the property catastrophe book followed by other short tail lines and finally casualty.
Since the end of the quarter the only significantly renewal for XL at April 1 was in the Japanese market.
Japanese renewals were competitive with Cat-ex oil rate of 10% to 15% and upward seeding commission pressure on proportional treatises.
There were some isolated pockets of increase demand from some large buyers.
In conclusion it was successful quarters from a profitability perspective.
Prior year reserve continue to run off favorably and benefited from light quarter for catastrophe.
Market conditions continue to be challenging however we have found some pockets of opportunity and are pleased with the portfolio written to date.
With that I will turn it back to David.
Kelley can you please the open the lines for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instruction] The first question will come from the line of Mr.
Josh Stirling of Bernstein.
Sir your line is now open.
So Mike I think I and everybody who reads [Bloodberg] enjoyed your comments about M&amp;A in the shareholders letter.
You made some comments about companies historically sometime becoming road kill and I thought -- I know we can't ask you about details on the deal.
So I won't try to do that but big picture as you look back over your history in the industry when you think about challenged deals that often didn’t work or were really difficult for the companies to digest.
When you look back what are some of the pit falls that you think M&amp;A presents and then how would you guys tried to design this acquisition and probably -- even more important you are approach to integration to try to think through and prevent some of these promise in the merging? So I'm glancing over at our takeover council as I answer.
So that he can hit me directly between the eyes more easily.
I do think Josh that you’ve asked an important question that I can answer.
Couple of thoughts first of all we did as a part of our work with our risk management committee and with the full board.
We actually did an analysis of all of the deals that have gone before not just in our space but in other space.
And went through what we thought were their causes of failure in various transaction to try and understand how if we did any transaction much this specific one we're talking about; how we would approach it.
So we had a general rule book of what can happen in transactions and what can be done to mitigate that.
So we went into this knowing that for our sectors specifically and generally there are an awful lot of failures in M&amp;A and I can give you a handful of the things that were very much on our mind as we thought about them.
Number one many of them failed because of the way they are entered into.
In other words the initial pricing terms and conditions of the agreement and the approach to bringing the companies together.
So lot of it's about how you get into in the first place.
The second thing is so many failures can be related to culture were the companies truly comparable where the leaderships of the company approaching these integrations in the right way.
Third category of failures is when there is not sufficient emphasis on the economics of the transaction but just some kind of focused on strategy and our belief that if you get strategy right everything else will follow.
I think I mentioned in my letter that we particularly don’t buy into that notion we believe it has to answer both on the strategy level as well as on the financial level.
And finally a fifth category of failure is when you sort of loose control on the integration when in essence the things that you believe will happen whether synergies or retention of key people or business proved to be wrong.
And therefore as you go along you cannot create the economic or strategic outcome that you believed was worth the deal in the first place.
So those are some of the big ticket -- there are a good dozen of these if I remember the list.
But those were some of the big ticket items that we were very focused on.
And here I will only comment on things that we have previously discussed.
But as previously discuss we have the advances because we weren’t already in the deals frenzy that has subsequently evolved we had the advantage of a very long period of run up in which really amounting about 18 months in which Steven and I and later the broader leadership teams and we and later teams of people through due diligence across the companies could confirm to our satisfaction that in fact the cultures were compatible highly compatible in fact.
That in fact the economics and not just the strategy made sense; that in fact we believe we could pull people along to the common vision and there is just been nothing that has taken place since that has changed any of our view that we are starting with a very advantaged hand as we enter what becomes now the real integrations.
As we entered what becomes now the real integration.
As we've mentioned before we've had a teams of literally dozens upon dozens -- hundreds of people from the company focused on the integration activities in accordance with the law while at the same time the vast majority of colleagues from both XL and Catlin have focused on delivering a quarter first quarter which as you can see from the numbers we've managed to do.
So I suppose only one last though and then if you have a follow-up I will see if someone can answer.
But the other thought I would add is this quarter continues to show that this wasn't something we felt we needed to do our own book of business is performing very well and I can tell you Greg and I look each other from time-to-time say man it's going to so well and yet at the same time we believe that respecting the strategic imperatives about which I’ve talked so much and is in the letter as well these five big things and they need to respond to the write off change in the sector.
We continue to believe that the combined company XL-Catlin once it if closed will even be more effective that positioning our ability to solve client needs and thereby return of an appropriate return for our shareholders.
So I hope that’s helpful but this was done fully aware of the various pitfalls in fact with fair amount of analysis around them and in a deep believe that we had done all we could to mitigate against those in both the run up and now in our preparation to jump in the next deal together should it close in fact on Friday.
Mike thank you.
I think that was really thoughtful and complete.
I guess my only follow-up would be when you think about -- you may have talked a lot of about culture of the firm being compatible but it is a combination you got into the XL Catlin is new trade name.
How does an XL underwriter begin to look at the world differently? How does the Catlin underwriter begin to look at the world differently? And how should we think about you guys long-term.
I mean is this XL but plus [indiscernible] company or Catlin starts to look more like Bermuda company or you both look more like a specialty company? I was just trying to maybe get a sense of what you think the longer vision is? And how from an underwriting perspective particular the world changes? Unfortunately now you really are in the perspective questions.
So I can’t talk about how XL Catlin will compete because it doesn't exist yet.
But you can presume very strongly based on your intuitive logic is that we didn't spend all this money to then go and somehow make it just one or the other that would be too limited.
It's really about how they bring as we've said many times the best of both forward.
I do think though there is an implicit element to your question but I can answer that.
That Pete reminds was certainly important to how we’re comfortable with this transaction.
And that is -- it is clear to me that one of the other big failure risks is the inability to be decisive and one of the things I would have formulated your question differently but I’ll anticipate that others would want to know this and believe me we’re not going to spend a lot more time on this topic.
So you actually kind of got away with one.
But the bottom-line is I've been hired twice to clean up the mess of under executed transactions before.
I could argue that the [indiscernible] of transaction here wasn't complete and that we completed it.
And I’d know for sure that when I got to Safeco one of the big problems was that they bought American stakes and they never fully made the tough decisions to integrate the companies to really bring forward the best of best they acted like they could just go on as they were before.
You can't do that and you have to be decisive and willing to be decisive and make tough choices as to both organizations in order to create truly world class going forward competitor.
And I can say that I watched some of that work and cleaned up some of that work when I was at C&amp;A as well.
So I can just tell you we’re being decisive you’ve seen the rollout of choices amongst competitive competent people of our various leadership jobs all the down several levels now that have been in the press and we’re going to approach saying we’re absolutely determined and will not be thwarted it our ability to bring the best forward and to deliver on the economics we promised to the marketplace.
The next question will come from the line of Cliff Gallant of Nomura.
Sir your line is now open.
You touched on share repurchases and how that you might revisit that question in a few weeks.
But I am just wondering how you feel about the capital position of the company today as you head into the merger? And from your perspective Pete do you think it is capacity for buyback and what would your thinking be around that? There is a couple of things that are obvious because we have not been buying back shares during this period of time and because we had the successful sale of our ownership of ASI clearly capital is building it the company.
At the same time we've said very clearly that we will talk about capital management as a part of giving you the information necessary to model us into the future and that is referred to the May 28th call and until then we are not going to get into those questions.
As a follow-up then just on the quarter’s results then when I look at the insurance progress and you guys continue to have great progress on the underlying combined ratio.
And then even 1.4 points this quarter I didn’t notice all that from the -- in the second half of last year was more like 3 points a quarter and I am curious are we getting to the point now where you would have expected that the rate of improvement would have slowed that a lot of the low hanging fruit was sort of -- have been taking care of? Not at all I would say we would believe there is a lot less [environment] and it turned over to Greg but the one win that was still somewhat contributing then and is not now of course is rate I mean that’s why you're seeing some shift in what’s going on between this year and last year but that doesn’t -- [Rob] as something we’re doing to make progress.
Right we’re still making progress Cliff part of it is on mix we continue to mix in -- most of the new businesses are kind of higher margin than we’ve had in the past.
We continue to be very rigorous as I mentioned in my comments on the underwriting actions that yielded over half a point in the quarter this year.
So we have a couple of other levers to pull on.
It does get -- the quarter-over-quarter rate of improvement does get little bit harder as you get to the end but we still feel we’ve got a lot of room to go is what we’ve got in hand.
The other thing I would remind you of is is in first quarter of the year this is really an [A versus E] quarter PYD doesn’t get looked at hard until you get to the second and fourth quarter which also would add to the accelerating phenomena of some of these benefits in prior years.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Brian Meredith of UBS.
Sir your line is now open.
A couple of questions here for you the first one just looking at field reinsurance during the quarter anything different that happened there looked like bought some more retro on the property cap book any positioning actually for the Catlin acquisition as you kind of look through the summer months? This is Greg I’ll start with the -- on the insurance segment we’ve been running quarter-to-quarter around about 66% to 72% net-written to gross-written retention ratio and it was 66% I believe this quarter.
There is a bit of noise in that number we wrote a couple of sizeable and meaningful transactions on our global risk management which is the -- where we ensure Fortune 1000 companies they retain a significant amount of it so large amount [indiscernible] and sometimes to call insurers.
There is a little bit of noise there there is also a true up on one of our quarter shares from prior year.
So we don’t anticipate that run rate in the first quarter to do what you would see underneath the insurance segment.
Brian on the reinsurance side what happens in the first quarter as we book the majority of our crop premium is sales closing for especially crops are essentially December through February that led to about two point bump in the ceded written premium or the gross written premium relationship.
But that’s about probably 80% of the premium we’ll book for the year for that business.
So I think for the next three quarters we’ll just revert back to a more normal historical ratio of ceded to gross.
Anything specific on property [Cato] that particularly look like a sometime pretty significantly year-over-year? No not really.
The only thing I’d add to what’s been said is that that none of it has anything to do with [excel] calendar; obviously given that the transaction hasn’t close we’ve had to maintain entirely separate reinsurance purchases strategies and won’t get through to work on the benefit said that we have described and we think to our benefits there but we won’t start being able to bring those to life until the company are actually bought together.
And just one quick number question for Pete Pete what is the impact of FX on the investment income for the P&amp;C in the quarter? It was about $3 million.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your line is now open.
I was hoping that we could talk a little bit more about the mix shift in the insurance segment and whether the -- I guess year-over-year progress is likely to accelerate from what we saw in the first quarter? We may to same progress we’ve talked about on a number of calls where kind of in that 70% to 75% were we are at or within five points of our target combined ratio.
That’s been fairly steady improvement along the way.
I don’t see anything that would cause me to think that progress will continue through the rest of the year I am not going to forecast where we think it's going to get to but it's just continuing work and continuing remixing of the business.
And I don’t know whether Mike you answer this before but could you apply any reinsurance for less than the full year 2015 during the first quarter in anticipation of the calendar? No we really couldn’t approach the world that way I mean the reality is until its close it isn’t close and we had to do everything as though we were continuing to operate independently or as through for some reason it might not close.
Obviously as we get into these final days we are feeling very good about it but that’s not the same as being done.
So we did everything to deny to hey what if it didn’t happen you have to operate like it would.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is now open.
I guess for John and Mike it's not surprising I suppose you said that most or actually all lines of business and reinsurance show pricing deterioration.
And we had a point obviously where we're not sure there is much of inflation on the claim side but clearly negative is been good on the pricing.
Not to take guidance -- I mean directionally is there a way for you guys to improve your margin reinsurance here or to the -- or it's about time to non-renew business in order to minimize that situation? Actually where we certainly went to a process last year trying to change and accomplishing changing the mix of business.
When we look at the economic returns we would say casualty would have the worst economic returns at this point for our portfolio and so essentially we pull back faster last year on that than the other lines.
Going into this year those lines have been somewhat stable it will be hard I think -- we've had some new opportunities the crop business was one of them to attempt to offset some of that loss business as the margins deteriorate.
But it will be difficult as we go through the year to foresee finding new business that will offset some of that lost business where the margins aren’t acceptable any more.
Do you think we should expect you to get smaller? Well the way I looked at the premium in the first quarter is if you back out the crop business the FX one time premium adjustments.
We are essentially flat year-over-year that’s not what we aspire to but I think we be happy if that’s the outcome.
And on tax the taxes it's hard predict any given quarter and one quarter is not a full year make.
Can you give us some thoughts on the second quarter maybe? And relatively you don’t want to take that line of questions looking at same thing should help us understand tax over the long term for XL has a larger more global company? Sure Josh its Pete I'm going to answer half of your question directly and the other we'll cover on the call on the 28th.
So what you would need to do in taxes -- it is a complicated quarter with the continuing noise in the life transaction impact in the net income.
If you looked at on an operating basis you would have saw our tax rate would have been just about exactly 13% which is pretty consistent with what we've been saying in the past we've sort of talking in the 12% range or so.
I don’t see anything that would change that as a standalone company Catlin has a lower tax rate than we do.
But at this point I really can't comment on what the likely tax rate of the combined entity would be.
That’s as good as I’m going to get I guess so I'll take it.
Thank you guys good luck.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Sir your line is now open.
Just one quick follow if you go back to Q2 2014 we spend some time talking about large losses and at that time you had purchased a large risk aggregate cover.
Can you remind us if there is anything remaining on that or has that been fully utilized? And how should we think about that piece going forward? Through the end of the first quarter we have utilized recovered from a portion of that covers still has limit left in it.
It runs through May 1st of this year we're in the process of considering what to do with it that renewal and it's still some days ago.
So I don’t have any answer for what we will do going forward not to least what will be wrapped up within store -- we were not going to talk about our XL Catlin.
But there is limit left the first quarter was not anything abnormal in large loss activity.
Got it that’s all I had.
Thanks for the answers and good luck for the future.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Ian Gutterman of Balyasny.
Sir your line is now open.
First I'm going to ask that maybe it is a little bit in the grey area but I think the way I’ll ask it you’d way the ask that you can answer it.
As of Monday is there anything that prevents you from buying back stock if you choose to I'm not asking if you will or you won’t; but is there anything that presences you from starting to buy back stock at Monday if you wanted to? No.
Second lot of my other ones has been answered here.
The crop you talked about I think a fair amount of that’s in California is there any reason to be concerned about the drought? While it certainly something we monitor the crops that tend to be the most exposed to drought tend to be rogue crops which is not the target of the portfolio.
The portfolio is targeted towards almonds and citrus and grapes which do have the necessary irrigation to have a good year.
We’ve had a few good years in a row here.
We think given the target crops the draught shouldn't be an issue for us over the next 12 months we’ll say I think as we look at what develops over the next three years to five years if it can become a concern at that point.
This is Pete just to confirm.
Yes indeed it is the vast majority is California.
And then just my last and this is asked a little bit; but just to get a little more detail.
The drop in the investment income sequentially are you short from where the run was I think about 10 million maybe little bit more that’s focusing just on the P&amp;C part I guess 12 million from last quarter.
You said 3 was FX there is about 9 that seems like a lot to explain by just holding cash for Catlin plus the normal maturities versus new money.
Is there anything else in there or is this new run rate? The one I made when I backed up just couple of things.
Sure it's Pete.
And some of this goes into a new run rate and some of it is one off.
There was a one off distribution last quarter and all the numbers I am going to give you are right all around $3 million.
And so we actually capped at slightly more than 12 more or like 14 million over drought.
So there was a one-off distribution last quarter I guess about 3 million in addition to building cash for Catlin acquisition we also sold some of our higher yielding assets the two of them together I would say that was about 3 million and then the last one was just a general reduction in yields from reinvesting maturing bonds.
And so when you add those four up that’s a pretty much get to the money I think you were looking for.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is now open.
My first question is just on the operating expenses XL Catlin.
They are up 1.6% year-over-year.
I think you guys have said you think you can do low single-digits and if I recall correctly I think in the back half of last year when we had more of the difficult comps with the higher variable compensation level.
Am I right to think that as the year goes on it should actually be easier to grow organic over operating expenses less or am I not thinking about that right on the variable expense side? First off and after this quarter we’re not going to be able to measure them anymore on the same basis.
But you are right that in the last quarter of last year we had a significant amount of variable compensation which drove that up which is why we had large decrease this quarter sequentially.
The one thing I would is that we benefited from foreign exchange in this quarter in the expenses.
So if you would have normalized to that it would have been more in the 5% range.
And so if you would have thought about that going for the next couple of quarters and then having a decline in the fourth quarter that’s where you would get to the low single-digit for the full year.
Just to be clear everything you saw this quarter though still makes you feel good about that low single-digit guidance you gave in the fourth quarter? Absolutely it's completely in line.
Just one more I guess is more general question in insurance right property I know is an area you guys have been trying to grow in.
We’ve heard competitors talk about how that’s a difficult line in terms of rate.
I am just curious maybe you could talk about the competitive environment there and any of the challenges turn to grow that line? Sure Ryan its Greg Hendrick.
It is definitely the more competitive as in general the most competitive area we see in the insurance marketplace.
Property in North America was down about 5 points and internationally down about 2 points.
Particularly North America in North America we’re coming off pricing levels which are generating sufficient margins for us.
So there has definitely been more capacity put to work.
It's definitely a lot harder and more difficult marketplace but it's one I think we can navigate well and these aren't run away rate reductions that we’re seeing on the insurance side.
This is Mike; I would add couple of things.
I was down there I just got back last night from [Rem’s] which is always very good place to get handle on what’s going on in the market and I can just tell you that the combination of the underwriting team we've assembled in the property space and the respected commands in the sector combined with the additional we’re able to make around risk management and through our GAAP's offering and the various mitigation program; we’re still able to make some headway in that sector.
We are not that bigger market share and that team and that offering are so compelling that we continue to see opportunities coming our way that still need our hurdles.
If we were a larger player perhaps I’d be more worried about our continuing ability to write but we certainly saw examples when I was down in [Rem’s] of places where we still have [indiscernible] to pick up some attractive business.
That’s my first point the second point on the question you asked Pete on expenses I just had one more thought I think it's really important not only are we well positioned because of the momentum in improving our broker business that we come into this period with but I’d much rather be in the position of executing upon a transaction in the midst of it as well because it simply gives you obviously more to work with and more levers to pull.
So I like both elements of our positioning should the deal in fact close on time.
Thank you.
The next question will come from the line of Mr.
Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
Sir your line is now open.
On your acquisition expenses and you reinsurance business I guess I would have expected that number to be rising over the past several years just given higher ceding commissions yet that number really haven’t budged is this a business mix issue why is it been so stable? Jay it really is at least for this quarter Jamie is not here to answer for the other years but for this quarter it’s a business mix issue the crop business in particular the proportion of CAT business that all helps the proportional business as commissions have reason exactly as you describe has been more difficult to write.
So as we’ve contracted over the years it's been disproportionately on proportional business side.
And so that’s how we’ve manage to control the commission rise.
And my other questions were answered so thanks I’ll talk to you at the end of the month.
Thank you.
At this time we do not have question from the queue.
Speakers you may proceed.
We appreciate the way in which the questions were approached today.
Obviously it's an uncomfortable thing to that there are important items you can’t talk about and I can’t tell you how eager I am to get to the 28th and to Friday to the days beyond to get this hopefully up and running.
I do think it's appropriate to take one minutes and couple of thank you.
First of all John Welch thank you very much for your Internship presuming it all goes through when Greg will slide back over so thank you.
Second to Sarah Street Sarah has been announced to chosen to take a reduced responsibility and to enjoy little more free time which she certainly has earned through the rather remarkable efforts to restructure our portfolio both during and after the financial crisis and providing what is simply an exemplary leader to the wonderful group of investment professionals that we have and I am thrilled that she will continue to work in the strategy and the XL innovate areas where I think she has enormous contributions to make.
But we should pause and I think it's appropriate in this venue to note in front of the shareholders the remarkable work Sarah has done over these years and finally to Greg well it's going to be thrilling to see what he does with the excitement that is structural shifts going on in the reinsurance world; it cannot be passed up the opportunity to again -- in front of our analysts and shareholders to thank Greg for the absolutely stellar leadership he has provided to the turnaround of our insurance businesses and I know very well both of them would immediately reflect to their colleagues for all that they have done but I want to make sure leadership matters and these two are really extraordinary at leadership.
So thanks to you both and thanks for the call you guys.
We’ll look forward to the 28th.
Thank you.
And that conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.