Good morning.
My name is Shirley and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group PLC second quarter 2015 earnings call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley and welcome to our call.
Our call today is being simultaneously webcast at www.xlcatlin.com and www.xltgroup.com.
We have posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
On our call this morning is Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO who will offer opening remarks Pete Porinno XL's Chief Financial Officer who will review our financial results followed by Paul Brand our Chief Underwriting Officer and Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team and Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we'll open it up for questions.
Also with us is Kelly Lyles our Chief Regional Officer and the Deputy Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that certain of the matters we'll discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent reports on forms 10-Q and 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement in response to new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Thank you each for joining our call.
Today we're very pleased to discuss our second quarter 2015 results.
The first results period for the combined operation of XL Catlin.
And although the quarter includes only two months of joint operation in that short time we're already seeing the many positive indicators supporting the rationale for our joining forces and for the quality of are integration work.
I'll give some of the highlights of the quarter and Pete Porinno will have further details on the numbers and then for the first time since the close of the transaction Paul Brand will discuss the insurance operations while Greg Hendrick will handle reinsurance.
In terms of the quarter as you have seen from the release issued last night our results included an operating ROE of 10% excluding unrealized gains and losses a P&amp;C combined ratio of 89.9% an underwriting profit of $209 million gross written premium of just over $3 billion and operating earnings of $0.84 per share.
Impacts to these results in the quarter included higher levels of cat in medium to large losses as you've already heard broadly from the market as well as $28 million in integration costs.
Overall these are solid results and we like our positions.
We're particularly pleased with these results we're delivered during a quarter that was messy for the industry and when we're fully into our integration work.
I also think these results bespeak progress toward a goal we've had for a long time of an increased ability to better absorb volatility.
As I have said we had a few large cats and higher than expected levels of losses and nonetheless the overall result is quite solid.
Now this could be luck.
We're in the fortuity business but this is something we've been striving to deliver for a long time and we have believed that the combination with Catlin would create an even more resilient and better spread book of business.
This could also be a result of that progress.
We will see.
Before turning it to Pete I also want to give you a quick update on the three areas related to the ongoing integration our current thinking regarding top line second our expectations for expenses and then third capital management.
First as to the top line.
As we all know the market faces plenty of headwinds.
We intend to maintain our discipline and the continuing guidance to all of our underwriters is that as much as we intend to grow our primary focus is and will always be on the bottom line.
The simple truth is for us bringing the two firms together is not the difficult thing.
The difficult thing for us and for everyone else in the market for that matter is the market itself.
And yet in the quarter we actually grew our top line and can only identify less than 1% of the business that was lost as a result of the deal.
That is far better than we had modeled going in.
Second regarding expenses we remain on track to achieve our synergy target of $250 million by year-end 2017 on a run rate basis and the ratio of cost to savings remains the same.
Roughly $1.25 in expenses for every $1 we can achieve in synergies.
That said we're in fact a bit ahead of this schedule in getting to our goal.
In addition we're also on track to gain the non-operating expense savings from areas like reinsurance purchasing claims adjustment expenses and investment management fees as discussed with you on our previous call.
And then third turning to capital management.
Since restarting share buybacks following the May 1 close of the deal we have followed the rate previously shared with you of a bit more than $50 million per month.
Here again we like being in a position to resume our capital management program and to continue to create additional value through buybacks.
Lastly I just want to emphasize once how pleased we're with the overall progress we have made on our integration.
Integration work is by its nature very hard and there are many changes that our people around the world are adapting to.
Yet they are anticipating and solving issues that arise and the market reaction remains well beyond our hopes.
A great example of what we've already achieved would be come from their quarterly results review that we recently held with all of the key leaders of our underwriting divisions regions and major functions.
My expectations for the meeting were very high because I believe these two cultures are innately aligned.
However I can tell you that for many of the people in that room they're meeting together for the first time.
To see the camaraderie and to see the command that people already had of the numbers and operations under their responsibilities was simply astonishing.
I know everyone in that room left heartened at the likelihood of success for what we're bringing together.
I was simply blown away by what I participated in.
This speaks well to the distinctive cultural we each had and to the unique way it will now fit together.
We're not claiming victory and we're not done by any means.
Our focus on speed to close the deal and I'm bringing these two companies together as quickly as possible has put us in a fantastic position to build on especially in a market that is experiencing a high level of subsequent M&amp;A and turmoil.
With that I'll turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike.
Our consolidated results for the quarter reflect the addition of the Catlin Group for only the months of May and June and reported prior year figures include only legacy XL results.
Most of our prepared remarks will be on that basis.
As promised we have included segment information for the first six months of 2014 in our financial supplement which combines XL and Catlin to help you with your analysis.
This table is in response to many of your requests.
Please note that the presentation does not represent pro forma financial information in compliance with GAAP and the combined June 30 2014 information has not been audited.
Operating net income for the second quarter was $246 million or $0.84 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $280 million in 2014 or $1.02 per share.
As we indicated during our May call we exclude direct transaction costs from operating income while including integration costs.
During the second quarter we excluded $37 million in Catlin deal related transaction costs from operating income and included $28 million in integration costs.
Both of these are recorded in corporate expenses.
On net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $915 million or $3.11 per share on a fully diluted basis which included the gain of $340 million on the sale of our operating affiliate ARX Holdings which closed on April 1.
Additionally as we have previously noted and I'm sure by now you are expert in this matter our net income numbers are also impacted by the mark to market movement of the derivatives that trends through the economics of the assets backing our second quarter 2014 Life reinsurance transaction and which have no impact on net book value or operating income.
We recorded a derivative gain offset by a book value loss in the quarter due to the increasing interest rates on the underlying assets.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 89.9% or 1.6 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Our accident and combined ratio for the quarter was 95.2% 1 point higher than the second quarter of 2014.
Natural catastrophe losses this quarter was $60 million or 2.9 loss ratio points.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $35 million or 2.4 loss ratio points.
As we've outlined on previous calls the second quarter has been and continues to be the significant reserve valuation quarter.
As a result we have reacted appropriately to any development indications identified during our in-depth review.
Prior year reserved development in the quarter was a net variable of $109 million or 5.3 loss ratio points compared to a net favorable $84 million and 5.8 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects favorable development of $38 million and $71 million in the insurance and reinsurance segments.
We completed the GAAP purchase accounting process and made fair value adjustments to the required balance sheet.
These adjustments will earn into income over the next number of quarters.
Overall the impact is relatively small.
However certain line items can be distorted in each quarter.
For example we advertised the fair value adjustment from deferred acquisition cost to value business acquired into acquisition expense thereby increasing that ratio slightly particularly in the reinsurance segment.
This is offset by the amortization of the fair value adjustment to reserves which decreases loss ratios slightly particularly in the insurance segments.
To the extent that these are meaningful they will be noted by Paul and Greg.
Operating expenses have increased materially in the quarter as a result of the consolidation of the Catlin Group.
Overall however the run rate operating expenses of the company are significantly lower than the baseline levels we discussed with you in May.
If you recall we indicated that we intend to measure our synergy levels against the run rate cost baseline on a combined 2014 expense level from the two companies increased by low-single digits for XL and a slightly higher rate for Catlin.
During the second quarter our expenses excluding deal and integration costs were approximately 3% lower than the two companies' combined costs in the prior year.
We expect the integration costs to increase significantly over the next two quarters then begin to decline through 2016 and 2017.
Our operating tax rate has declined slightly from approximately 13% to approximately 11%.
This relates to the actual and projected profits of the company by jurisdiction as well as the slightly lower overall historic rate that legacy Catlin experienced.
On a net income basis the tax rate really jumps around given the impact of items that don't impact operating incomes such as the Life derivative and the sale of ARX Holdings.
Turning to the investment portfolio.
Net investment income excluding the Life fund's withheld assets was $176 million or $37 million below the same quarter last year primarily due to the Life transaction having taken place mid-quarter last year along with the impact of lower investment deals.
These were partially offset by the addition of two months of investment income on the legacy Catlin portfolio.
The gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of June was 2.4%.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.2%.
Given current yields net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we have approximately $4.1 billion of assets with book yields 2.4% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from the investments fund and investment manager of operating affiliates was $40 million for the quarter up $9 million from the prior year quarter driven by higher earnings from our private investment fun affiliates.
Net income from other operating affiliates was down from the sale of ARX Holdings on April 1.
Net realized gains on portfolio assets were $4 million down $77 million from the prior year.
We had large gains on sale of equities in the same part of last year.
Our unrealized gain position declined by $319 million for the quarter driven primarily by rate increases in all our major jurisdictions.
Unrealized net gains were $871 million at the end of the quarter.
All together the total return on investments was a negative 0.5% for the quarter.
In general we anticipate a transition to a rising rate environment and while we expect this to be handled sensitively by the central banks we assume this will be accompanied by bouts of volatility in the market.
In light of this view we have not yet extended the ratio on our newly combined portfolio.
However the ratio on the overall portfolio decreased by 0.2 years to 3.5 years at the end of the quarter due to the inclusion of the legacy Catlin assets.
This kind of an environment can provide opportunities for a long-term investor like XL Catlin but it will likely create a little more volatility in both net investment income and book value as we navigate our way through this.
We've integrated the legacy Catlin assets into the combined portfolio.
There has been no fundamental change in our investment policy or approach as a result of the Catlin acquisition although the combined entity is expected to benefit from expanded capabilities including internal fixed income portfolio management.
Now with respect to capital management we resumed active share buybacks during the second quarter after the close of our acquisition of Catlin.
During the second quarter we purchased 2.9 million shares for $110 million at an average price of $37.57 per share leaving $158 million available for purchase under our previously announced share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an effective capital management tool and have continued purchasing at similar levels in July in line with the philosophy we laid out in May.
I will now turn it over to Paul to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Let me start by saying that both Kelly and I are really excited to be leading such a talented team of insurance professionals and that we look forward to sharing our continued progress over the coming quarters.
Today I will cover the results for the segment provide an update on our integration and finish with remarks on current market conditions.
First the results.
The second quarter marked our tenth consecutive quarter of profitability for the segment producing a calendar year calendar quarter combined ratio of 97% compared to 93.8% in the same quarter last year and a first soft combined ratio of 95.8% versus 94.6% during the first half of 2014.
Increased cat activity largely due to the eight ball Sydney hailstorm compared to a low cat quarter in quarter two 2014 accounts for 2.7 of the 3.2 point quarter two deterioration.
Lower prior year development as a percentage of net earned premiums account for another percentage point deterioration.
This was partially offset by an improvement in our operating expense ratio reflecting changes in our expense structure as a result of the transaction.
On an accident quarter ex cap basis the combined ratio was 95.4% compared to 96% in quarter two 2014.
While this results reflects some improvements year-over-year it is slightly higher with the 93.2% reported in quarter one primarily due to some medium-sized losses that occurred in the quarter.
For the first half we reported an accident year ex cat combined ratio of 94.5% compared to 95.3% to 2014 further demonstrating the resilience of our growing book of business as we were able to resolve these losses without jeopardizing profitability.
For quarter two reported an acquisition ratio of 12.9% which was three percentage points higher than quarter two 2014.
This is because the legacy Catlin business included a larger share of wholesale specialty business largely from the lowest platform where the acquisition costs are higher than the legacy XL business.
This is offset by lower loss ratios reflected in our quarter two net accident year ex cat loss ratio of 61.9% which was 2.8 percentage points lower than quarter two 2014.
Insurance based premiums written in quarter two increased by 37% or $600 million year-over-year driven largely from the Catlin acquisition.
This growth occurred in all four of our underwriting divisions with the biggest growth in our energy property and construction specialty divisions.
When we look at a full quarter for both legacy organizations and normalize for foreign exchange and other items our actual year-over-year growth is roughly 2% in quarter two and 4% year-to-date.
We're clearly pleased with the business is growing despite the challenges of an integration and whilst the rate of growth has slowed when compared to recent quarters in my view this is for more indicative of market conditions than anything else.
Shifting to progress and integration.
Let me just share a few highlights from the insurance segment perspective.
First off the market response to the deal has been very favorable.
We're seeing increased dialogue with our brokers giving our greater market prominence and these brokers have been providing support to our one plus one equals two or more mantra.
As a result we tend to tracking ball with historical trends and new business is trending up despite market conditions which I will discuss shortly.
Second our leadership teams are now fully in place across the insurance segment as we carefully selected the best talent from both legacy organizations with minimal disruptions.
Plus we successfully executed our legal day one plans we're now hard at work executing our longer-term plans including the realization of synergies which Mike mentioned earlier and we will share more on our progress in future quarters.
Turning to market conditions we saw even stronger headwinds in quarter two than we reported during the past three quarters.
Pricing was negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for this segment was down 3% in the quarter and 2% year-to-date.
Our casualty and professional businesses were down 1% with only our Cyber and North American Environmental businesses achieving material rate.
Our Specialty business was down 3% largely reflecting continued competitive conditions in the aviation lines and our energy property and construction business were most severely impacted with pricing down in the mid-single digits.
That by reductions to the energy book driven largely by the recent fall in oil prices.
Given the reality of the markets we continue to focus on an improved mix of business and our ongoing execution of underwriting actions measured use of reinsurance and effort to create operating leverage through efficiencies and rigorous expense management.
These leaders have delivered continued improvements over the past few years and as XL Catlin we will have ability to pull these levers even harder.
In summary we delivered another solid quarter of underwriting profitability despite the internal focus required to complete the acquisition.
With much of this now behind us both Kelly and I look forward to picking up where Greg left off continuing our trajectory of underwriting improvement towards top quintile performance.
Now to Greg to discuss reinsurance results.
Thanks Paul.
Today I will discuss the results for quarter and provide a few comments on current market conditions.
Beginning with the results the reinsurance segment got off to a great start in our inaugural quarter as XL Catlin with a calendar quarter combined ratio of 74.5% and resulted underwriting profit of $166 million.
This compares with the combined ratio of 75.7% and underwriting profit of $105 million for XL's second quarter of 2014.
We had the benefit of another quiet quarter of catastrophe losses and continued favorable reserve runoff.
The large increase in underwriting profit is a result of our new scale as XL Catlin.
Concerning the competitive landscape we're pleased with how the portfolio performed this quarter.
Excluding prior year development the portfolio generated an accident quarter combined ratio of 85.3% which compares to the 86.7% produced by XL in the second quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio decreased 7 points to 50% for the quarter.
The primary drivers of loss ratio decrease included 4.8 points related to lower catastrophe activity and 2.3 points due to favorable attritional loss experience.
Offset improve loss ratio was an expense ratio of 35.3% up 5 points of expense compared to the second quarter of last year.
This increase is a result of purchase accounting adjustments Pete noted earlier which contributed 3.3 points with the remaining increase due to a change in business mix as a result of the Catlin acquisition.
Our reserve releases in the quarter were $71 million compared with $47 million a year ago which benefited a combined ratio by 11 points in both years.
The current quarter release was driven primary by favorable runoff in North American and European casualty lines of business as well as favorable prior year catastrophe losses.
Turning to top line gross written premium for the quarter was $782 million up from $493 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven by the Catlin acquisition.
Looking at the full quarter for the combined XL Catlin gross written premium fell 11% relative to the second quarter of last year.
Most importantly just 0.5% or $6 million is part of the 11% drop resulted from aggregational concerns from the XL Catlin combination.
This drop was more than offset by increased participations with a number of our core clients.
Over 60% of this quarter's drop results from the accounting treatment of multi-year premiums written by legacy Catlin.
This treatment increased the prior year premium while decreasing the 2015 premium.
The remainder of the drop is driven by our underwriting discipline in the face of competitive market conditions and the timing of certain treaties.
Turning to market conditions we continue to experience deteriorating rates across most lines and regions during the second quarter and into the July 1 renewals.
In general global property catastrophe rates fell roughly 7.5% other excessive loss covers fell 5% and steam conditions on pro rod trees grew by 1% to 1.5%.
However we did see a slowing on the rate of a decreases on U.S.
property cat.
And in particular roughly $4 billion of increased demand in U.S.
primarily in Florida but due to a number of covers being repriced or unable to be completed at the initial firm order terms.
While this may not be a definitive floor we're encouraged by the pricing discipline emerging in both the traditional and I-loss markets over the last few months.
In summary from both a financial and market momentum perspective we're off to a great start.
Our second quarter financial results were strong and while marketing conditions continue to be challenging strong support from our clients and brokers allowed us to find profitable opportunities.
The integration of our two teams into XL Catlin has gone very well and our reinsurance operations are well-positioned for the rest of the year and into the January 1 renewal cycle.
I will now turn it back to David.
Shirley can you open the line for questions please? [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
First question is on the expense ratio.
Just wonder how much is that the accounting adjustments impact overall for the company as well as how long will it last? Is that a few quarter phenomenon or is that ongoing? There is about a $15 million adjustment in the amortization expense that hits the commission and brokerage line for the quarter.
I think it would be safe to say that I would expect that to decline slowly over time until it expires in quarter five or six.
And then maybe this is a bigger picture is that wouldn't you guys now three months into integration do you see anything surprise you to either the upside and downside? Given now you have some experience with accounting now do you have a more detailed in term how do you plan to have the $250 million cost savings by 2017? What I mean is that do you have more granularity for example savings for 2015 and 2016? I will start with the more general bit and then turn it over to Pete.
I would say that I personally have experienced one negative surprise.
That is having been through a fair amount of large scale corporate activities that have involved job loss you start to think that somehow you'll get used to it.
You never do.
These things are painful.
We're dealing with people and families' plans and lives and we're hard at work at things that are very unpleasant.
I would say that I find it just amazing that it is every bit as painful now as it was the very first time I was ever a part of something like this.
The second thing though I would share two positive surprises.
One is we believed that because it was in the -- because these actions were taking place in the context of a merger that people would be more understanding that they'd be aware these things kind of go along with it.
And there it has been true.
Our colleagues have stayed very focused on their clients very focused on supporting one another even through difficult times and it's just a really remarkable thing to watch.
That has been a good thing to experience I think for all of us.
Finally I would tell you the most positive thing of all is while we thought that the market would really like a company in the shape of XL Catlin with a deep focus in specialty and deep flexibility around loyds and the globalism and all of the rest we intellectually knew what the arguments were but to actually see the reaction of our colleagues and to see the reactions most importantly of our clients and of our broker partners it has just been amazing.
They are excited by what we're building and that excitement has translated into the kind of top line support that we've been able to achieve despite what is a very difficult market.
Those things are exhilarating.
You realize that at least some of what you were thinking is coming true.
Whenever you are dealing with strategy and ideas you're truly exciting to see it translate to numbers.
And that's been a really gratifying part of this process.
In terms of synergies a couple of high-level comments.
Number one as I mentioned we're seeing it come together even faster.
This suggests that some of those costs that go with the achievement of synergies will take place at higher levels earlier than we originally would have modeled.
Of course that all attaches to the already higher promised $250 million in run rate savings by the end of 2017.
I think Pete already referenced that you'd see it climb and then decline.
Pete you might want to give a little more color.
Well on the two things on the synergies just exactly what Mike said.
I think we all feel more comfortable every passing month that goes by but I don't think we're at a place now where we would change the overall timing that we've talked about back in May 28.
I would say the integration cost again as Mike said are coming in quicker than we expected.
If I had to sort of ballpark it I would say for the next couple of quarters we probably expect them to go up by about 50% each quarter and then drop off after that.
Lastly then maybe for Paul.
Given the pricing commentary clearly is a more competitive marketplace now.
Do you see room for underlying loss with your improvements? Do you think the overall combined ratio improvements more coming from the expense side rather than from the loss ratio side? Thanks.
Absolutely we've got something we can deliver on expenses.
I think we could also do some stuff around reinsurance benefits get a bit more organized around that.
And then generally underwriting actions and tuning the portfolios and pulling the business properly together.
I think we've got quite a lot of tailwinds.
Mike referred to the support from brokers and clients that's tremendous.
That really does help.
The job is is making certain those more than offset the headwinds of rate decreases that's what we got to do.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
In terms of level settings over the foreseeable future I think it would be helpful to get a perspective on what gross written premiums for property-casualty could be given we've got Catlin coming in.
I'm modeling around $11 billion of gross written premiums of P&amp;C in 2015 and just approaching $14 billion in 2016 taking into account the full year of Catlin.
Is that a decent starting point? Jay I'm sorry to be unhelpful but we have not given guidance on top line in that way.
We've always tried to talk about the things we can control which is why we're willing to give sort of more explicit guidance around how we view expenses at the end of the year each year.
We have given commentary around how we will treat capital markets assuming nothing changes in the terms of buybacks.
Those things we have control over so we can forecast them with a bit more accuracy.
What the markets are going to do and how the top line will perform is something you'll have to model based on your assumptions and we'll treat according to ours.
The one thing I would observe is as we have already said we have this mantra that one plus one should equal two or more.
Meaning that we're not accepting that bringing together two well-run organizations must lead to some kind of dissynergy at the top line.
We just don't accept that.
We think that with the greater balance sheet strength with the greater capabilities we should be up to grow not shrink.
The countervailing fact as I described in the call a couple of months ago is you've got tremendous headwinds in terms of pricing and we're a bottom line driven shop.
And how those two things feather together is what will decide the matter.
This quarter and the way each company functioned separately through the six months until the two months that we were together both indicate that there is a good bias to the idea that we can grow our business subject particularly in reinsurance today's market conditions.
Second we have from my point of view looking at new business and submissions the kinds of activity we're seeing which speaks to the support I've described from the brokers and others I really like our position.
But giving you an absolute forecast is just something we don't do.
With regard to the return profile with the company generating what I would characterize as a very solid 10% annualized ROE this quarter do you think that's a reasonable run rate here or perhaps something XL can build on? Again we have said our objective is to run double digit or better ROEs.
We had a strong year last year.
We've had a good start to this year.
We always look at it -- we encourage looking at it by looking through the unrealized gains and losses which we believe is important at a time when the unrealized are high.
We also think it's an important at a time when unrealized gains are shifting around and lowering.
I think you should always view on some kind of a constant basis to the core performance of the company.
We have said that we expect looking through all of the distortions that will go on we have said that with that basis in mind we have expected this transaction to be meaningfully accretive to our ROE.
We have no change of view.
Right.
And that's on book value ex AOCI not just on tangible right? Yes.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Just one question on the comment you made.
A number you gave Mike in your prepared remarks.
You talked about I think you said 1%.
You identified 1% of business that was lost due to the direct impact of the combination.
I'm just wondering how do you derive that number? Because I assume that there's always some turn in normal lost business that needs to be replaced but all the time.
Absolutely.
What I said was less than 1% actually.
I'm going to ask each Paul and Greg to comment on their own segment's experience.
What we mean by that at some level you are right.
There is some opaqueness to it but we're looking for the client that says to us you know you already were a significant part of my program from both the legacy Catlin and the legacy XL.
I can't stomach that much exposure to you combined.
I'm either going to cut you back or do something like that.
We're looking for direct effect of the transaction on a buyers decision-making.
I can tell you overwhelmingly the direct effect of this balance sheet is clients wanting more connection to us not less.
We even saw that I mentioned that in the meetings that we held with our brokers at RIMS and our partners at RIMS people were already offering us additional business.
Now whether it's priced to our standards is where we get into challenge.
And that's why we have found absolutely that it's market conditions that are challenging not what the transaction has done.
The transaction has done nothing but help us with the exception of as I said that less than 1% that has something that bothered them that caused them to either cut us back or some other such effect.
It's only if it's related to the transaction that we're going to put it in that bucket.
Paul? Yes I mean we've already carefully monitored risks.
We've insisted that eventually we can recapture data on every risk that renews with us saying essentially has our line been squeezed because of an addition of XL plus Catlin? Or has that happened absolutely correctly as we would expect? As I say again this is risk by risk.
We've got all the underwriters completing this data.
We monitor it on a monthly basis.
It's one of the first one of the key metrics that I wanted to institute in terms of measuring process and progress against that goal.
We've also been very clear I think with the market and with our client by what our ambitions are here.
There's no confusion there and there's no confusion internally about what we're trying to achieve.
I think if you put those things together the clarity of the message and monitoring and keeping the metric again that just really helps you drive for the right result.
Yes and in reinsurance Cliff it's the same.
We were able to code treaty by treaty client by client exactly what was lost due to any concern.
Over 0.5% was what the number was for reinsurance.
I think also we got like Paul just noted we were after the client and brokers very early on to make sure that could communicate deeply with them whenever they had concerns.
And quite often it ended up the conversation turning from I'm a little concerned to actually that makes a lot of sense and all things being equal if there's room you can have more.
Your next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
A couple of quick questions here for you.
The first one just on the peak app adjustments you mentioned you said what the impact was on the expenses were Pete.
I thought you said there was offsetting on the loss ratio? What was that and where was that? Yes that would've been pretty much the same percentage on the overall book.
As I said more of that was on the insurance side.
So that would've been about 0.8% on the insurance loss ratio for the quarter.
Mike I'm just curious to date you see reading the press reports of some people leaving Catlin.
I'm curious were any of the people that have departed unexpected? When did you -- would rather not have left? First of all let's put it all in context.
If you look at the first half of the year we're only running slightly above the same level of attrition the level of attrition that we experienced when we add the two firms together in the first six months of last year.
The fact that we're going through a major integration and are only seeing slightly more turnover speaks volumes.
I will say that is slightly higher when you reach the underwriting ranks and that we expected because you are bringing together teams of people.
Sometimes those people have history with each other.
There were hot spots that we identified well before the transaction closed.
In fact in some of our earliest meetings where we knew of people who had used to work together and didn't anymore for a variety of personal reasons and all of that kind of stuff.
If I step back and say are there people we've lost that we'd rather have not lost? Sure a handful.
If I were to step back and say are there teams we've lost that we would have rather have not lost or not expected? I'd say maybe one.
That was kind of five people.
Other than that no.
They were the anticipated hot spots.
They played out pretty much as we expected.
But are there a handful of levers that I wish were excited and had stayed? Sure.
This is a big integration.
But as against any of our metrics that we had in mind before going into this it's lower than we expected in that count.
In fact that just makes it a little harder because we have to get to our synergy goals.
And if they don't leave voluntarily sometimes it has to happen another way.
Your next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Just two quick follow-ups on Catlin.
Number one can you disclose if there was any reserve release benefit from Catlin or not? As you know we closed on May 1 and did a full review at that point in time.
The answer would be no there was no reserve release.
We did not expect one.
It will be part of the full reserve review that we do in the fourth quarter.
And I just quickly related to the discussion on what I guess Cliff was asking regarding aggregation and what was lost.
Excluding that if you look at the legacy book do you have some sense as to the percentage that was non-renewed which did not meet your return thresholds or is that number not available? Yes I would say on the reinsurance side as we went through it it was roughly about 7.5% to 10% offset clearly by new business and other things going on.
That would be both legacy books.
We're operating now as XL Catlin so I don't track what Catlin business we lost or what XL business we lost.
It's just what we lost in the aggregate for the quarter.
Overall for insurance on our retention ratio which is how we measure it year-on-year is broadly consistent in the mid-80s mark.
It varies a bit as you get into different business lines.
We're clearly lower retention in those most and negatively affected by pricing.
As I said in my prepared remarks very consistent retention levels year-on-year.
And if I could quickly sneak one more.
Can you broadly talk about obviously you've seen the Ace-Chubb deal.
How does that impact XL going forward? Or how do you view the changing scenario out there with all these acquisitions taking place around you? Thanks.
We have said for some time and it was certainly what prompted Stephen Catlin and I to begin talking about this in the first place is we see a broad set of industry conditions that are leading we believed would lead to a broad set of M&amp;A.
At the time that we announced the transaction that was something of an original thought.
It isn't anymore.
There's been quite a number of subsequent transactions.
The way to think about a couple of things.
One when you have something like Ace and Chubb come together I think of that as being one less larger competitor.
I think of their as being the same kind of work that we've been going through is about to be gone through by them.
Even when I see companies coming together who are more our sites I kind of have the same reactions.
It's one less competitor and another set of two organizations that are going to go through challenges.
That is just a marketplace that to my mind is pointing towards more companies like the one we're building.
The thing that we really appreciate and will try to maximize the value of is going first is good.
It gets you through the hoop faster.
We think we're turning out at least the early indications are we're pretty competent at managing this kind of thing and that is showing up.
Every day that we get further through the hoop and that others are finding their way through it with all the challenges that goes every bit of that I like.
The market is the market.
I think there's going to be more not less of this kind of activity.
I don't think we're at all done with this wave of M&amp;A because these underlying conditions have not changed and there is a lot of firms that have not yet reacted.
I think many may think they like their position.
I think they are going to find themselves more and more wishing to be part of something broader and deeper.
As those realizations come there will be less and less partners.
All of that argues for early not late and for us liking our position realizing with all humility that these are difficult things and they'll be difficult for the other guy.
They're difficult for us and that's just the way it is.
It's a convulsion of activity the market's growing through.
We just feel particularly well-positioned having started early.
Your next question comes from Dan Farrell with Piper Jaffray.
You may ask your question.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you think the balancing buyback and debt reduction as we head into 2016 and 2017 and likely ramping of cash flow in those years? What I'm getting at is you talked about a goal of wanting to get the debt and preferred down to the low 20s.
At the same time it doesn't seem like there would be a pressing need to get to that level given a lot of that preferred.
I'm just wondering how you would balance the two? I will start and Pete may have some additional color commentary.
This is Mike.
First of all our general approach to share repurchases remains the same as it has always been.
Many of you are long-time regulars so I'm not going to bore anybody but the basic concept is meet your highest required capital.
That's going to usually be asking at least in this day and age that could change.
Once we're done with that we have a buffer.
That buffer is generally equated to our largest most likely source of loss with a little cushion to that just for the normal vagaries of competition.
Once were there we look at how much we got and we say okay if we've got capital in excess of that what's it's best use? For every quarter saved the quarter of this transaction the answer was buy back shares.
So we bought back shares.
Obviously we used some of that excess capital in this transaction.
As we see again the Capitol building up and obviously by virtue of buybacks position of excess to those first two requirements we've initiated buybacks again at the level we've previously described and are quite comfortable with that.
Now the question with respect to mixing debt repurchase in the transaction when all got said and done we wound up a bit better on the leverage ratio than we had forecast going into the transaction.
We maintained a goal of being middle of the pack.
Middle of the pack is not a stagnant notion because with all of this M&amp;A you're going to see some of that number move around over time and probably move toward us a little bit.
But nonetheless its clear to us that over time the flexibility that is gained by some reduction in the debt is wise.
I think what you are going to see is a continued appreciation for the value of buybacks.
You are going to see a continued attention to how we could perhaps opportunistically think about the debt level but you're not going to see a sudden drive to get it down.
This is the same approach we used the last time that got us to our goal over a handful of years.
I have the same mindset here.
There's no urgent drive here.
We'll just look at how the flexibility it creates for us and keep it in balance with the share repurchases.
The only thing I would add to that is if you do look at our debt maturity schedule you will see the first debt coming due in 2018.
We talked about very modest repurchases of debt.
I think that would continue to be the right guidance there.
And then a quick question on how to think about components of expense management.
The corporate segment costs to be well controlled this quarter.
As we think about costs getting taken now if there is more coming out of corporate first and then some of the operating segment costs follow a little later or if there's no time to think about there? Thanks.
As you all know we manage our costs on a total basis irregardless of whether they are corporate or in the insurance or reinsurance segment.
That continues to that day.
Corporate expenses as a percent of our total expenses went down this quarter after taking out the integration costs and transaction costs.
I think it would probably make sense to you that you would expect to see that right? We continued the push on retaining every underwriter that makes sense for us to retain.
Clearly there's more pressure on some of the more functional areas.
I think you would see that reflected in what I said the corporate expenses being a lower percentage.
And corporate expenses also contain some of the larger strategic investments that we have made over time.
Some of those are rationalized during the course of the transaction.
Your next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
You may ask your question.
I guess to start first Greg you went a little fast for me.
I missed it.
Was the 11% decline number you talked about was that premium decline for the combined Catlin and XL reinsurance? What was that? If you took three months of 2014 XL Catlin together and three months of 2015.
So it's XL Catlin to XL Catlin.
That's what I thought.
In the press release I think it said down 3% ex Catlin.
Does that imply to be a total 11 that Catlin was down well more than 11? Yes.
That was where as I refer to in my remarks that was the impact of that multi-year accounting.
Can you give a sense of what Catlin only was then ex the multi-year? I cannot do that at the moment.
I will have to come back to you.
Okay got it.
What I'm getting at big picture is was there more pressure just based on -- not reception to the merger but just business mix and the market conditions on the Catlin reinsurance top line than XL or was it similar for things were kind of apples to apples? Absolutely similar to both.
The books have some nice diversification to them but they also have some overlap.
This is purely how you book a three-year reinsurance treaty pre the May 1 acquisition and post the May 1 acquisition.
Nothing to do with anything of a client or brokers view of the Catlin book.
Pete this is a request more than a question.
The last two pages with the first half 2014 performance was helpful.
Can we get that for second half of 2014 hopefully before the third quarter call? What I can tell you that you can't get this is Pete again is the third quarter.
One thing that we're limited to is only to release those periods at which Catlin had released it publicly.
They only released six months results and so we would not be able to do a nine-month number.
To be honest Ian we haven't concluded.
We'll want to talk to you and others and understand the value of that last two pages of the financial supplement.
Okay we can maybe discuss it offline.
But I think it would be helpful to have -- maybe if I can ask this? I assume I can't take the reported Catlin 2014 numbers subtract the first half Catlin you show and get to their second half because of accounting differences? Right.
You wouldn't be able to do that for one reason.
For example differences in corporate reporting.
The other would be former Catlin did not separate insurance and reinsurance.
Right.
We can follow-up on that offline.
And then the other one that I want to understand a little bit better is there invested assets invested income leverage is much lower than not just your P&amp;C book but I think your traditional P&amp;C book? Is there any color you can give on why the invested asset leverage is so low there? There are two things.
One's invested the leverage is lower because they wrote a shorter tail book of business than historical XL wrote.
The other question I think implied in that is the yield.
We talked about it before.
It was a very short duration asset book even shorter than what the liabilities would have indicated.
And then Mike I want to ask you sort of a bigger picture question I asked on another conference call about tangible book.
This is becoming obviously a bigger issue for folks with all the deals going on.
I want to get your thoughts on why tangible book's the most appropriate measure for XL because you seem to highlight that over reported book.
My premise of why I would disagree with that is first of all it seems every 8-K or proxy that comes out along the way the goodwill's moved up or down $100 million $200 million at a time.
It seems just a concept of tangibles is a bit fuzzy to begin with as far as what the right number is.
Isn't the better way to look at it obviously XL in its past has had some deals that did not work out and it wasn't that the market didn't know and so you took a goodwill write off five years later.
We knew because your ROE wasn't good on reported book.
If the Catlin deal works well we'll know because you earn an appropriate ROE in the total capital invested.
Not just the tangible capital invested.
Why isn't ROE on total book and growth in total book a better measure for the company's success than tangible? First of all of course you have all of those measures and you can judge as a shareholder which you are going to value the most.
We have found we think that the tangible book the tangible capital is the better measure of what we're controlling and doing and a lot of the rest of this is the usual vagaries of the accounting rules around transactions.
You can do it whatever way you want Ian and I'm sure you do.
I think the reality for us is that I think the tangible remains a better core measure of what decisions we're making with the capital available to us.
Other than enjoying reading the transcripts as this gets argued from company to company we look at it both ways.
When we do an acquisition we look at it both ways and when we look at our reported results we look at it both ways.
I don't think one is better than the other.
I think they serve two different purposes and you use them accordingly.
I have been enjoying reading the transcripts.
I will be happy to discuss it offline if you want.
Thanks.
This is just more of a commentary on Pete than the rest of us.
And Ian on your earlier question I've had a number of conversations with our finance group about how to report and a number of conversations with Pete.
This is a very difficult thing.
On one hand we're always devoted to doing all we can to help you understand what is really going on in the book of business.
On the other hand when we create reports that don't give us any insight if in managing the company it becomes very difficult to justify the expense especially at a time of extreme imposition on our finance department and others to try and get the work done and the insight we need to actually judge the business day to day.
I'm sure you appreciate the tension that's created and we're doing our best we can to create what we think is meaningful information for you to use within the legal constraints of how companies actually report it over time and we'll continue to.
But we're also mindful that we've got a finance department that is stretched and that will be stretched until the systems all come together over the next year or so.
We have to be mindful of that too.
And that's the direction I've given Pete is to balance it as carefully as possible.
Do what we can but let's not create a lot of stuff that in the end isn't useful as to us managing the business.
And your final question comes from Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Just one for Pete following up on Ian's question about the investment portfolio.
It sounds like the asset duration there is a little bit lighter than liability duration.
I was wondering if you could quantify what you think you could be running that duration at if it were matched? Along those lines Pete you also said that the pro forma portfolio will benefit from internal management.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more about that if that pertains to mix or anything along those lines? Sure Ryan it's Pete.
If we match duration you'd probably be somewhere around 0.3 years maybe slightly more than that.
But I think that's a good ballpark.
And then as far as the question about the internally managed that really would be on the same assets that we have today.
It would be taking and it has been pro forma Catlin it has been doing it and we will be doing it at former XL.
We haven't transitioned it quite yet.
But it would be taking the more of the vanilla type of investments that are in the fixed income portfolio and managing those in house.
And I was hoping for maybe for some help on thinking about a run rate for large losses.
I'm not sure what you can give us there but is there a way to quantify what we can expect as a quarterly run rate? I know that was sort of an issue for Catlin.
Any help there? Appreciate it.
We've looked at that question time and time again and never being able to come up with something that we thought would be very useful.
We continue to have our own experience to show the kind of volatility we should expect in a book like this.
What we concentrate more on is making sure that our reinsurance strategies and our limit strategies are well meshed to create volatility the book can absorb.
That I think we're having success around.
But actually predicting a level across the various segments we have that have a propensity towards volatility the volatility is too little spread across too many places that wind up yielding something that we think is very predictable our useful.
Thank you.
I'm going to turn the call back over to the speakers.
Great.
This is Mike.
First of all thank you very much.
I know very well that given all of the noise that goes into the numbers at a time like this that you all are working even harder to try and understand this.
We know that that complexity will decline over time as the results become clearer and become measured against themselves instead of against pro forma numbers.
We look forward to working through this with you as well as we can.
We really do appreciate your for forbearance and thoughtfulness as we work through it.
At the same time and I know here I'm particularly conscious that we always have a lot of our colleagues on the phone as well we simply couldn't be prouder of what our colleagues are doing to get us through this transition in an effective way to make sure that we're fast and fair with our people and to make sure that our clients and brokers understand the strength of what we've created and why it is that we knowingly are going through something so complex to deliver something that we think is really special.
It's clear the early reports are clear to me and I think clear in the numbers and clear across the market that XL Catlin has been well received.
It's viewed as a thoughtful and well-structured transaction.
We're incredibly excited about what its potential is and we think we're starting to see some of that potential in this very quarter.
The real credit to that goes to the thousands of people on the ground dealing with clients and brokers and with each other's needs.
We're very grateful for their hard work every day.
Thanks everybody for the call and we'll look forward to the next report.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.