Good afternoon.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the XL Group Plc Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please be advised this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to David Radulski XL's Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Shirley.
Welcome to our conference call.
Our call today is being simultaneously webcast at www.xlcatlin.com and www.xlgroup.com.
We have posted to our website several documents including our press release and quarterly financial supplement.
On our call today Mike McGavick XL Group's CEO will offer opening remarks Pete Porinno XL's Chief Financial Officer will review our financial results followed by Paul Brand our Chief Underwriting Officer and Chair of our Insurance Leadership Team and Greg Hendrick our Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations who will review their segment results and market conditions.
Then we will open it up for questions.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that certain of the matters we will discuss today are forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans estimates and expectations all of which involve risk and uncertainty and a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Therefore you should not place undue reliance on them.
Forward-looking statements are sensitive to many factors including those identified in our most recent reports on forms 10-Q and 10-K as well as other documents on file with the SEC that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as the date of which they are made and we undertake no obligation publicly to revise any forward-looking statement also new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I will turn it over to Mike McGavick.
Good evening.
Thank you for joining our call.
We have been eager to have this discussion regarding our Q3 results as this is the quarter where the underlying fundamentals of our newly combined business continues to prove themselves but obviously the miss to estimates could create a different impression.
In some ways that there is difficulty in modeling our progress is understandable.
We know that everyone is trying to get a handle on the future earnings potential of XL Catlin and there was so much going that it is tough to do.
You can see evidence of this in the very wide spread of analyst expectation.
In my now 30 XL earnings calls this is the fifth widest spread of estimates and before that we are larger surrounded major external events like Hurricane Sandy so our view of tonight's job is simple be as clear as we can about how the business is performing and where there are opportunities to clarify items that we think are prone to miss estimation we will try and help.
Let me start with that overall idea.
The business itself is performing as expected or better and we are incredibly excited by the additional opportunities we are seeing and the fundamental strength of this new company.
Let us look at some fundamentals.
In the third quarter XL Catlin produced a P&amp;C combined ratio of 95.3% and our accident year combined ratio was 96.3%.
This was a relatively light CAT quarter and offsetting that we did experience the Tianjin explosion.
With respect to Tianjin it is noticeable that our level of losses relative to our market share came in as we expected.
Both companies came into this transaction with admired underwriting cultures.
Tianjin was another proof point that the discipline remains once the companies are combined.
With regard to the top-line we produced $2.6 billion in gross written premium versus $2.8 billion in the same quarter a year ago when compared on historical basis and adjusted for FX so let's consider the top-line a bit further.
First many had modeled some drop in business due to overlap and alike.
We certainly did in modeling the transaction pre acquisition but in fact that is less than 1% of the business that has been lost is due to merger impacts.
We are delighted with this result.
Second market conditions remained difficult.
Despite these conditions we are seeing more opportunities to write business than ever before.
This is because our brokers and our clients have seen the benefits of our new position in the marketplace and our working eagerly to find more to do it together.
Our meetings at the Reinsurance Rendez-Vous CIAB FERMA Baden-Baden and now at PCI all affirmed again very high broker and clients report for this transaction.
I know that many of the analysts and investors on this call have their own market contacts to that which they can collaborate what we are saying.
As we complete the upcoming 1:1 renewal cycle we have been through the entire renewal book with the merger either in mind or in place.
In fact you could argue with the pre-Christmas week of the proposal deal last year some 1:1 renewals are already market tested as well and the retention levels are staying at historical norms.
This too is incredibly gratifying.
Third we are doing a good job of walking away from business where appropriate.
There has been much talk of pricing pressures for example in the specialty insurance and the overall reinsurance marketplace.
While Paul Brand and Greg Hendrick will give more detail in a moment let me offer two proof points of our continuing discipline.
Our overall top-line and insurance adjusted for FX is slightly up but that masks our adjustment to our mix of business according to profitable opportunity.
For example it is well known that in the energy sector where we are leading writer is going through a rough patch rates are off around 10%.
Because we are even more cautious our writings are down 26% in the energy segment in this quarter.
On the other hand we like our opportunities in political risk and crisis management taking together premiums there are up 23% year-over- year.
In other words we are continuing to remix the books according to profitable opportunity.
Turning to Reinsurance while the business there is a lumpier quarter to quarter as you will hear more from Greg in a moment consider that on a year-to-date basis adjusted for FX Reinsurance is down about 5% overall given the rate environment that makes sense.
We also know that in North America casualty where we are especially concerned we have reduced our writings by 11% year-to-date.
We are bottom-line underwriters.
In this regard there is no change.
Even with Tianjin in the quarter we produced a P&amp;C underwriting profit of $114 million and both segments were profitable.
Of course it is foremost the capabilities of our people that make all of this possible.
Here too are few important thoughts.
Over the next several weeks we will finish our second and last round of employee consultations in London.
It is now true that the vast majority of our colleagues who have been or will be affected by this transaction already know their personal outcome but they are leaving the firm now or in the future.
The speed with which we have acted has been a critical factor and keeping voluntary turnover of key people well below our pre-deal forecast and only modestly above prior-year levels.
During this quarter there were wonderful reminders of our colleagues' ability to stay focused on clients.
For example the recent Gracechurch survey confirmed our leading position across underwriting claims and overall reputation in the London market.
A recent U.S.
broker survey also showed us our leading our peers in claims service.
In Singapore we were recently recognized as Aon's Asia innovator of the year.
Given all that is going on this is a remarkable set of external validations of our people and their capabilities and Management is very proud to be their colleagues.
Turning to the last of the transaction related variables and that is expensive savings.
We have already raised our estimated savings from $200 million to $300 million on a runway basis to $250 million on a run rate basis.
We are ahead of schedule in the synergy savings with $54 million saved year-to-date.
The savings increments needed for 2016 are already built into our budgets and that $250 million will be attained.
Taking together considering the top-line retained and the fact that we are mostly through a complete renewal cycle considering the remixing of the book to offset the difficult market conditions considering the retention levels of our people and their award-winning continuing focus on client given what that says in total about the reaction of brokers clients and colleagues and given that savings continue to meet our commitments our view is that once the 2016 activities become incorporated into our budget we will view next year as much more of a business year as usual just a bit heavy on the continuous improvement activities than in a normal year.
Having said all that what else is going on in the quarter and where might this misalignment to estimates have most occurred? There are few things to consider here.
The first is PYD.
If you look at the consensus for what we were estimated to release and what we are in fact announcing is big delta but as you know we have a long-established with quarters one and three being in A versus E quarter and our deep dives in quarters two and four to really get at our last picks.
That is why we mentioned in our last call and maybe we did not say it strongly enough that we would not expect to see any releases from the legacy Catlin book during this third quarter and in fact there were not any.
In the spirit of giving information when this estimation is possible I would say to be mindful that we are still in the process of harmonizing the two legacy books to common reserving principles.
You can see how that process could have some dampening impact on future PYD.
We do not know that to be true yet as the work is still being done but you can see how a process like this might alter what you would naturally estimate simply looking at past experience of the firms respectively.
Second I mentioned that the vast majority of our colleagues already know or will know shortly any effect on their job due to the transaction.
While speed is critical to reducing anxiety and confusion for our colleagues it also means that we are moving faster through our estimates of integration expenses so integration related expenses were $55 million in the quarter higher than the number we had guided you toward on our last call.
We believe that there is real benefit of speeding this process so we will continue to move as fast as possible and we remain ambitious about growing these synergies over time.
That said in the spirit of giving you clarity where we can as it is proven difficult to give you an accurate estimate of these costs we will post the integration related expense number for the fourth quarter to our website ahead of the fourth quarter call.
Then third the affiliate income portion of our investment portfolio is near zero due to the recent financial market volatility.
The bulk of the impact coming in the hedge fund managed portion of our investments.
Offsetting these was a one-time positive benefit impact.
Net of these four items the estimate variance is more than explained.
In the end the fundamentals of our business are proving to be strong.
Our integration is increasingly shifting to business as usual and we are continuing to see new opportunities which did not come our way before.
As we look at the quarter in total we are excited.
We will continue to believe that we are on track to deliver double-digit expansion in EPS and meaningful lift in ROE.
With that I will turn it over to Pete.
Thanks Mike and good evening.
We have been a combined company for only five months.
As such this represents our first full quarter of consolidated results.
Operating net income for the third quarter was $71 million or $0.23 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $187 million in 2014 or $0.70 per share.
As we indicated during our previous calls we have excluded direct transaction cost from operating income but included integration costs.
During the third quarter we incurred $1 million in Catlin deal-related transaction costs and $55 million in integration costs.
As Mike noted this is higher than we forecast you to on last quarter's call as we have moved faster than expected on all elements of our integration plan.
We expect that by the end of the year we will have provided the vast majority of our colleges with clarity on their position with the company going forward and we will have identified our major systems and infrastructure design changes.
From that point we are truly in business as usual mode on all fronts.
We continue to expect that the relationship of one-time integration costs the run rate synergies will remain as we previously estimated at 125%.
Our net income attributable to ordinary shareholders for the quarter was $27 million or $0.09 per share on a fully diluted basis compared to $72 million or $0.27 per share in 2014.
As we had previously noted our net income numbers are impacted by the mark-to-market movement of the derivatives that transfer the economics of the assets backing our second quarter 2014 life reinsurance transaction.
We continue to show that relationship in the summary consolidated financial data included with the press release.
As always it is no impact on comprehensive income or operating results.
Our P&amp;C combined ratio for the quarter was 95.3% or 5.2 points higher than the same quarter last year.
Our accident year combined ratio for the quarter was 96.4% 3.9 points higher than the third quarter of 2014.
The chemical warehouse explosion Tianjin has significantly impacted the quarter.
Excluding this loss the accident year combined ratio for the quarter is consistent with third quarter of 2014.
For the quarter our natural catastrophe losses totaled $31 million or 1.3 loss ratio points.
By comparison net losses from natural catastrophes in the same quarter of 2014 totaled $30 million or two loss ratio points.
Paul and Greg will discuss our underwriting results in further detail.
The third quarter prior year reserve development was a net favorable $28 million arising from the legacy XL reserves or 1.1 loss ratio points compared to a net favorable $35 million and 2.4 loss ratio points for the same quarter in 2014.
This reflects unfavorable development of $7 million in Insurance segment driven primarily by the impact of an unfavorable judgment on a single claim.
The Reinsurance segment had favorable development of $35 million.
As we have discussed in previous calls during the first and third quarters our reserving process is based on review of actual versus expected loss activity for the property international construction and entre energy lines of business insurance and for non-U.S.
business in reinsurance.
The remainder of our business including casualty professional and specialty insurance lines and all U.S.
reinsurance lines of business are reviewed in depth semiannually during the second and fourth quarters.
This business tends to be medium to long tail in nature which generally requires at least two quarters of additional information to credibly imply changes to ultimate loss ratios.
As I noted in our call last quarter and Mike mentioned earlier we are aligning reserve methodologies and assumptions between the two legacy books.
The results of this review will form part of our usual fourth quarter full valuation update.
As we indicated previously our normal purchase GAAP accounting adjustments will earn its income over the next number of quarters.
Overall the impact is relatively small; however certain line items can be distorted in each quarter.
To the extent that these are meaningful they will be noted by Paul and Greg.
Operating expenses have increased materially in the quarter as a result of the combination.
Overall however the run rate operating expense level of company continues to move towards the expected level of transaction expense synergies.
On an annualized basis our third quarter expenses excluding integration costs are approximately 5% less than the combined companies' 2014 expenses adjusted to align accounting practices.
If you recall we indicated that we intend to measure our strategy levels against the run rate cost base of a low single-digit increase on a combined 2014 expense levels from the two companies.
For the three months ended September 30 2015 the Company recorded tax benefit of $31.6 million resulting in a negative effective tax rate.
The tax benefit in the quarter is driven by our ability to utilize certain of the legacy Catlin entities U.S.
deferred tax assets as we restructure our legal entities in the United States.
Our operating tax rate excluding the direct tax benefit from the legal entity restructuring has declined to slightly less than 10% primarily due to the favorable change in the geographic distribution mix of income.
Turning to the investment portfolio net investment income excluding the life funds withheld assets was $179 million or $9 million above the same quarter last year primarily due to the addition of the legacy Catlin portfolio or offset by the impact of lower investment yields.
Gross book yield of the portfolio at the end of September remained at 2.4% consistent with the second quarter.
During the quarter our average new money rate was 1.7% given current yields net investment income will continue to remain under pressure as we are approximately $4.2 billion of assets with book yields of 2.4% rolling off over the next 12 months.
Net income from investment fund and investment manager affiliates was $2 million for the quarter down $38 million from a strong prior year quarter driven primarily by our hedge fund portfolio with a negative market backdrop provided a strong headwind to a number of our event-driven and market-neutral funds.
Net income from other operating activities was $2 million lower than the same quarter last year attributable to the sale of ARX Holdings on April 1<sup>st</sup>.
Net realized gains excluding derivatives were flat for the quarter down $10 million in the prior year.
Our unrealized gain position declined by $101 million for the quarter driven primarily by our equity portfolio against the negative market environment while with fixed income gains from lower U.S.
treasury yields were largely offset by unrealized losses from credit spread widening.
Unrealized net gains were $746 million at the end of the quarter.
Altogether the total return on investments was 0.2% for the quarter excluding FX.
The duration of the total portfolio which includes P&amp;C and the remaining life assets was 3.2 years at the end of the quarter and remained short the duration of all of our liabilities.
We continue to anticipate bouts of volatility in the market reflecting uncertainty around the timing of the U.S.
rate hike and the consequent impact on the market and wider economy.
With respect to capital management during the quarter the Company paid ordinary dividends of $61 million in preferred share dividends of $57 million preferred share dividends in the quarter included the semiannual payment of $22 million in the legacy Catlin preferred share dividends for the first time as a combined entity.
These dividends are paid semiannually in January and July.
We plan to execute in the fourth quarter a very limited liability management program and will redeem legacy Catlin subordinated debt amounting to approximately $91 million.
The proposed action improves operational efficiency and is part of streamlining our capital structure.
We continue to execute share buybacks during the third quarter.
Our Board of Directors approved a new share buyback program in our August meeting authorizing the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our ordinary shares replacing the remaining amounts under our previous share buyback authorization.
During the third quarter we purchased 4.8 million shares for $180 million at an average price of $37.85 per share leaving $880 million available for purchase under our share buyback program.
We continue to view these buybacks as an efficient capital management tool and the continued purchasing in line with philosophy we discussed in May.
I will now turn it over to Paul to discuss our insurance segment results.
Thanks Pete.
Today I will cover the results for the segment prove an update on integration and finish with remark from current market conditions.
First the result third quarter marked our 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of profitability with the segment producing calendar quarter combined ratio of 97.2% compared to 94.7% in the same quarter last year and year-to-date combined ratio of 96.4% versus 94.6% in 2014.
PYD strengthening of $7 million compared to release of $20 million in Q3 2014 accounts to 2.4-point to-2.5 point deterioration.
The remaining variance is a result of our acquisition expenses offset by an improvement in our operating expense ratio lower CAT activity and lower accident year ex-CAT loss ratio.
On an accident quarter ex-CAT basis the combined ratio was 96.3% compared to 94.8 in quarter three 2014.
While this is higher than we would expect it should be noted that the insurance portion of Tianjin loss equals to 1.5% difference in the segment combined ratio.
If we look at the first three quarters the reported accident year ex-CAT combined ratio of 95.3% similar to the 95.1% we reported in 2014 demonstrating that we could absorb the Tianjin loss without jeopardizing profitability.
For Q3 we reported an acquisition ratio of 13.2% which was 3.8 percentage points higher than Q3 2014.
This is because the legacy Catlin business included a larger share of wholesale specialty business largely from the Lloyd's platform where the acquisition costs are higher than the legacy XL business.
This is offset by a lower loss ratio as reflected in our Q3 net accident year ex-CAT loss ratio of 62.7% which was 1.3 percentage points lower than Q3 2014 just under three points lower when adjusted for the Tianjin loss.
Insurance gross premiums written in Q3 increased by 66% or $876 million year-over-year driven largely from the Catlin acquisition this growth occurred in all four of our underwriting divisions with the biggest growth continuing in our energy property and construction and specialty divisions.
When me look at the full course of the both legacy organizations and normalize the foreign-exchange our actually year-over-year growth is roughly 1% in Q3 and 3% year-to-date.
While this growth is not as robust as recent quarters it does reflect our success in maintaining the two legacy portfolios while at the same time writing new business that is on par with 2014.
Given current market conditions this growth is something we continue to be extremely proud of.
Shifting to progress and integration let me share a few highlights from Insurance segment perspective.
Firstly the market response to the deal continues to be very favorable.
Having just returned from CIAB I can tell you first time that there was an increased enthusiasm within the broker community to work more closely with us given all greater market prominence.
Kelly experienced much of the same sentiment from both brokers and clients; on last month's FERMA conference and it is not just talk.
Our retentions continue to track well with historical trends and our new business opportunities continue to be strong despite market conditions.
Second whilst our leadership teams were announced last quarter we have now finalized our entire underwriting organization from top to bottom retaining key talent and with minimal disruptions.
Third we have made further advancements in centralizing our outwards reinsurance purchasing.
We combined several programs and we are on track to deliver $50 million in savings in 2016.
With regard to our longer term and state plans we have made significant strides with regards to our pricing methodologies our operating model and our legal entity structures while at the same time focusing on our synergy opportunities.
We will continue to share our progress in future quarters.
Turning to market conditions the headwind we expected in Q2 have continued pricing was negative across most lines of business as the overall rate change for the segment was down 2% in the quarter and year-to-date.
However this was a result of general decreases in rate being offset by broadly flat rate in some lines.
For example Casualty North America as well as some increases most notably Cyber and Environmental North America.
Overall our Casualty and Professional businesses were down just 1%.
Our Specialty business was down 2% largely reflecting continued competitive conditions in the aviation lines and our energy property and construction businesses were once again we severely impacted with pricing down in the mid-single digit led by reductions of the energy book as well as our international North American property books.
Despite these market headwinds we continue to focus on margin expansion by improving our mix of business leveraging analytics into underwriting actions increase our reinsurance efficiency and creating operating leverage through increased productivity and rigorous expense management.
In addition we continue to make strategic investments in our claims capabilities that should also deliver meaningful improvement to our bottom-line.
In summary we delivered another solid quarter of underwriting profitability continue to grow the book and made significant progress on our integration.
As we finalize our plans and prepare for 2016 we firmly believe we are positioned to continue our trajectory of underwriting improvements towards top quintile performance.
Now to Greg to discuss Reinsurance results.
Thanks Paul.
Today I will discuss the results for the quarter provide some thoughts on Tianjin loss and close with the current market condition.
Beginning with the results the Reinsurance segment produced a solid result despite an active loss quarter with the calendar quarter combined ratio of 91.2% and resulting underwriting profit of $68 million.
This compares with the combined ratio 79.2% and an underwriting profit of $90 million for the third quarter of 2014 with the benefit of a relatively quiet quarter of catastrophe losses and continued favorable reserve run-off.
The decrease in underwriting profit is mainly attributable to losses from the explosion in Tianjin China.
Considering this loss and a competitive landscape we are pleased with the results for this quarter.
Excluding prior development the portfolio generated an accident quarter combined ratio of 95.8% which compares to the 82.7% produced by XL in the third quarter of 2014.
The accident quarter loss ratio increased eight points to 59.8% for the quarter.
The primary driver of the loss ratio increase is related to Tianjin.
Further the expense ratio of 36% was up 4.9 points from the third quarter of last year.
This increase is a result of purchase accounting adjustments Pete noted earlier which contributed 2.2 points with remaining increase due to a change in business mix as a result of the Catlin acquisition and higher ceding commissions as a result of the competitive marketplace.
Our reserved leases in the quarter were $35 million compared with $15 million a year ago which benefitted the combined ratio by 4.6 and 3.5 points respectively.
The current quarter release was driven primarily by favorable runoff in our European casualty property treaty and marine lines of business.
Turning to the top-line grocery written premium for the quarter was $459 million up from $276 million in the third quarter of 2014 driven by the Catlin acquisition.
With the third quarter being a relatively lower top-line quarter the year-to-date volume is more reflective of our portfolio premium.
On a year-to-date basis for the combined XL Catlin gross written premium fell 6% relative to the same nine-month as last year.
This reduction was driven by the timing of certain treaties lower multi-year premium and foreign-exchange.
Consistent with last quarter less than a 0.5% or $8 million part of the 6% drop resulted from client concerns about the XL-Catlin combination.
This drop is more than offset by $70 million of new business written in the third quarter alone.
Shifting to the tragic explosion in Tianjin the segment recorded $70 million of net losses.
Our estimates based on extensive client by client review of our portfolio our prudent reserve for losses that are not allocated to client and local dollars to our Shanghai and Beijing offices.
Our detailed lost estimate corresponds to nearly $3 billion loss estimate for our client which translates the high-end of the current market loss estimates.
It is important to note this is a very complex man-made loss that will short-tail in nature may have long tail characteristics as it is adjusted.
Turning to the market conditions we continue to experience deteriorating rates across most lines and regions during the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis global property catastrophe rates fell roughly 7.5% other excessive loss covers fell 5% and ceding commissions on pro rata premium grew by 1 point to 1.5 points.
Through our early renewal meetings we are seeing increased demand from some clients as well as the general acknowledgment that rate decreases are slowing across the reinsurance marketplace.
In summary while our profitably in the quarter decreased due to Tianjin our market momentum continues to be very positive.
Our recent meetings in Monte Carlo CIAB and Baden-Baden all reinforced our leadership position in the market.
We continue to get very strong support from our clients and brokers and we are well-positioned as we are headed in the January 1 renewals.
I will now turn it back to David.
Shirley can you open the lines for questions please? Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kai Pan with Morgan Stanley.
Go ahead with your question.
Thank you so much for the detailed description of the discrepancies on the PBD [ph] and other items for the quarter just want to follow-up on the large losses Tianjin is there any sort of like losses related to the Volkswagen investigation? Overall if you look at your CAT losses as well as large losses how do you feel about the combined organization compare with that you had XL legacy business and do you feel that we will see more volatility in terms of your earnings in the past.
This is Mike.
Hi.
Thanks for the comment.
On the question first of all with respect to Tianjin we were very pleased with our results.
It was very much in line with what we would have expected given our presence in Asia and given our relative position in both insurance and reinsurance that we were gratified by.
With respect to Volkswagen which I know is very much on peoples' minds first simply in the nature of these contracts that we do not disclose individual client relationships.
In the rare cases where that does happen it usually has to do with either other reports in the marketplace or with somehow the level of losses with respect to that particular name exceeding what we would consider kind of the point at we would have to think about materiality and disclosure.
I think you can take some comfort from the fact that we are not commenting specifically on that loss at this time.
I understood.
Then my second question if you look at your comments about market condition actually getting tougher you try to maintain the top-line as well as the investing continue under pressure because low rate environment.
In such a condition how do you see we getting from the current level year-to-date about 7% ROE into a double-digit or what are drivers and what timeframe in your guys' mind that we can get there? First I will get to the ROE expansion in a minute.
Finishing the answer to your earlier question I apologize.
In terms of large losses in the quarter they were largely in line with prior year.
Nothing really exceptional to speak of and we do believe that Tianjin in fact makes the point that we can have very large losses in the quarter and still remain profitable some level.
I think that is greater absorbency and large loss than we would historically have so we are actually very pleased with the spread of the book of business in the way that can continue our longstanding effort to try and reduce volatility by having greater diversity in the portfolio.
The second thing with respect to the ROE expansion clearly we continue to believe that this will meaningfully uplift ROE.
We have never given an exact timeframe to a double-digit target though that certainly is what we expect over time.
The main uplifts are coming kind of two parts if you think about it.
One you see a good story at this stage of our ability to continue to remix our book of business to offset market conditions and I think our overall attritional loss ratios continue to show that strengthened certainly better than you would have expect given pure rate impact so that is a piece of the story.
Second and critical piece of the story is expenses.
At this stage in the cycle we are all in a very difficult headwinds.
You mentioned interest rate environment that ain't going to change.
You heard Pete talk about the downward pressure on the reinvestment rate but at the same time we believe one of the most important aspects of this transaction was the way in which the two companies offset each other's weaknesses with regard to expense and we are diligently trying to bring that to truth and that is the way in which we were building out at XL a global specialty platform obviously combining with Catlin completes that.
We are now truly in a leadership position.
Second of course Catlin had been building out a global platform that too was not yet fully scaled and added through the existing XL global platform.
We really have that fully global capability at a much more affordable basis so our view is that by delivering on the synergy is implicit in those two comments on the general synergies available in any combination of two publicly traded companies we believe that that together with managing against these headwinds and by mixing our book of business we really believe we can deliver what we have said that is meaningful ROE expansion and obviously at this point we have the benefit of having early views of 2016 plans that we are certainly seeing the progress we expected.
That is great.
Just lastly you outlined back in May about the major bucket of cost saving 215 G&amp;A about 30 from investment 50 from claims and 50 from reinsurance.
It looks like we are going to realize potentially the 50 in reinsurance.
How about the other buckets? You have any updates in terms of magnitude as well as timing of those? Thanks.
We are on track for those.
Of course the 50 for the reinsurance was the estimate for next year.
The others are estimates over time not in the same timeframe and we do all of those estimates through '17 which is when we expect all of things to be fully actualize on those - so we would not describe those to be fully actualized next year.
The reinsurance piece which we think is a portion of what we can ultimately do the $50 million is for next year.
Thank you so much for the answers.
Pete you have something to? Kai Pan it is Pete.
Just to add one thing to what Mike said or two things on the on the investment bucket I would say part of that was around expense saves and part of that was around extending duration from the legacy Catlin portfolio.
The expense saves the actions of been taken those - the expenses saves will come in next year.
The extended duration as you could tell from my comments we still have not fully extended to what the liability duration would be so that is still lagging behind.
On the claims as Mike said - as I said on the on the call post the transaction that those would come in as claim start coming in we harmonize the processes so those will take some time to come in.
Thank you Pete.
Thank you.
The question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
You may ask your question.
Thank you.
With regard to the expense savings since there is increased confidence I believe a quarter ago I am thinking what else could happen that could give you potential upside to expense savings.
This is Mike Jay.
As we continue to work through these processes it's interesting that you discover two things.
One sometimes you discover additional opportunities for savings as you actually bought the things together and you realize that you have got some more things that you do not need.
On the other hand as you are going through them sometimes when you do something you were planning on you realize an unintended consequence that might require some offset or increase in expenses elsewhere so the numbers does move around a bit and we have been unwilling to put forward any higher number until we are absolutely certain that it will be achieved so at this point we are still sticking with the 250 because that is the number we believe will absolutely be achieved but we continue to believe we can do better than that and when and if that number moves meaningfully higher we will certainly share that with you but it continues to move.
As you do things you realize either unintended benefits or unintended consequences to your actions and we would want to alert you to new number until we are certain on them.
I understand.
The next issue I guess more for Pete is on the fund affiliates.
I guess it shouldn't be too surprising to anyone that it was a pretty challenged quarter given what happened in the markets in August.
However given the sharp rebound in equities especially through September and October I am wondering if we might see a benefit there in 4Q.
Hey Jay.
It is Pete.
Thanks a question.
Let me back up for a second.
Let's talk about what drives - I think the question really is around the affiliate income and the drivers there so let me spend a minute if I could and then try and help you on a go-forward basis.
As Mike said one of the things we are trying to do which provides some clarity here so I will do what I can to achieve that.
First on the hedge funds on the alternative investments there is about $1 billion of that in the affiliates.
There is about another $700 million of that not in affiliates.
For the third quarter we had for the affiliates a loss of about 1.1%.
When you include all hedge funds that was about 0.7% the benchmark on those was negative 1.8 right so we are pretty comfortably ahead of the benchmark but still a loss for the quarter.
It is a business that we are really comfortable with.
We obviously have been it for a long time.
As I said think about that business that is the one that has a one month delay as you correctly pointed out so September was as bad as August.
October the equity markets are looking better than the hedge fund market so far so we think that is still going to be under some pressure for the fourth quarter when we report that out.
The other bucket that I would draw your attention to that it was implied in your question is the investment management affiliates and this is the one where there has not been much on the balance sheet.
There is only about $100 million but there is a fair amount of earnings power and that is really lumpy as you well know because the incentive fees that are built into that number.
That one has a one quarter delay right as opposed to the one-month delay of the hedge funds so that one as you think about Q4 you really have to think about the fund performance in Q3 right? We know what the fund performance was in Q3.
It was not good right and so that is one where you could see a return of incentive fees in the fourth quarter which could actually push that into negative territory for the quarter.
I hope that helped a little bit.
Jay any follow-up on that? No.
That was very clear.
Thank you.
The final one I had was on the patient share buybacks so I think initially we are looking at $50 million a month.
That might have been the commentary from last quarter.
I cannot quite recall but with $180 million this quarter it seem that XL was taking advantage of some pull back in the stock price and just trying to get your perspective on the return of capital story.
Jay it is Pete again.
I would say when we spoke about this last time I think what we said was there will be somewhat marginally above the 50.
We do like the timing right now.
We are buying back stock so we are doing.
It was $60 million a month for this quarter and based on what we have seen so far we have no plans of changing that for the next quarter either.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Josh Stirling with Sanford Bernstein.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the question.
Mike maybe others want to jump.
Two I will let you decide.
I wanted to talk big picture about the operational challenges.
The challenge is operational changes that you guys are working through.
Obviously merger is a big deal.
I would love to go behind the numbers.
Better understand what is going on operationally and culturally for your internal folks I was kind of thinking like what are the most important priorities that people who actually to firm and really focusing on now and how should we think about some of the more operational staff of things that might be happening in the back office consolidating systems as well as more sort of top-down things like how are you changing goals and measurement and sort of cultural management of underwriters and claims people because can we get various press reports from the trades and I would really get to a sense of what is really going on with the new XL Catlin.
Sure Josh.
I appreciate the question and I particularly appreciate that you brought up culture because I think that is a consistently underestimated impact on how great businesses are formed and functioned so it's nice to hear that in the question on this call.
I am going to walk through three different things.
First of all remember Stephen Catlin and I had a long run up to doing this.
We spent something like 18 months just the first year just the two of us talking and then adding slowly a few more people to the mix.
All that conversation was around culture.
We were both deeply aware that we had successful franchises had no need to do anything we felt that the indicators leading to consolidation in a sector very present so we expected there to be consolidation and we thought that if that was true we should pick your partner as Stephen has so well put it.
The greatest concern we had was where these cultures is really compatible.
I think in the end we are discovering the answer to that is very much.
Yes and it is yes for a couple of logical reasons.
Number one we were both definitely underwriting cultures and the disciplines that come with being great underwriters they are healthy to our skepticism a real regard for numbers and analytics.
Those kinds of things we are clearly culturally present across both places.
Second we were both relatively small groups of colleagues spread over the world.
As a result the premium on collegiality mutual respect on using tools to defeat time and distance were both deeply embedded in each culture and there was a real culture of globalism.
These are companies that are truly about the world and not just about any one geography.
Those two things gave us great hope and have proven to be true and I think it is logical given that we were both trying to solve similar problems that they were true.
I will tell you in a Townhall I held in London recently though I did acknowledge something that is different and that people have to work their way through and that is I really do believe that Catlin was able to create an unusual level of family feel within the business really extraordinary for a firm of their size and complexity.
When you get to the affirm of the now size and complexity of this firm it is even more of a challenge to have that kind of family feel so I advised our Catlin colleagues that I would not if I were them believe it will be the same.
Stephen is a unique leader and each of us is different and the size and complexity now is a bit greater and it is more difficult to retain that exact feeling.
However each firm went into the transaction with extraordinary employee engagement scores far beyond the financial services or insurance sector generally.
Meaning each place was a place that colleagues enjoyed working.
What we said to our colleagues you are still going to like it.
It just won't be exactly the same and each person will have to choose for themselves how they feel about that.
I noted in my comments earlier that voluntary departures are still only modestly above what they have historically been which I think tells you that people are taking their time going to make their own decisions but generally are moving along with us and this transaction so that is the first piece and that is because I think generally speaking the cultural traits fit together was one of the first things we addressed as a firm.
Second thing the hardest part will always be in the back office functions.
Underwriting we were all over acted on very very quickly as you would expect because you had to get the underwriting colleges working together in teams that we did literally overnight.
However when it comes the backroom it is hard to sort out and that is where more overlap is so I would have to say that if you are in one of our back office functions you would feel that the progress seen elsewhere in the firm is coming slower and that of course creates frustration because if you are in a part where it is going fast and great and you are sitting next to somebody for whom it does not feel as good we all are affected by how our colleagues feel so that is why I emphasized in my remarks that the speed up of integration costs was tied to good things the speed with which we are getting clarity to our colleagues.
With this as I said this business process in London around consultation when you have redundancies as we finished this second wave which is the last one we expect in London you really see the functions brought up to pace with the underwriting side and that is going to go miles towards getting everybody excited about the future.
Then the third thing is the system stuff kind of naturally fit together.
It was odd where there was currently a deep investment in claims forecast for talent.
We had already made those investments where there was a need for a new strengthened underlying financial system we had just almost finished our own investment in that and are now just going to have to add on the Catlin financial reporting systems.
This not only will improve our financial reporting capabilities but more importantly it will start to feed into analytics once completed by mid-year and therefore feed into what we think is a better ability to forecast losses and alike.
There we were really neatly offset.
The one place where there is a lot of work going on is in underwriting systems.
There we were both making investments.
It is not exactly clear how to resolve those investments and the best answer that will take a couple of years to get done but I think if I take across those three culture as expected we are feeling very comfortable but it does not mean it will be identical and we are being candid with our colleagues about that.
Second with respect to our functional areas a bit behind the speed and success we have had on the underwriting side but coming into line now and hope that will become just a better and better experience and third with systems we had nice offsets and only one really remaining puzzle that we will sort over the next couple years.
I hope that takes you a little bit behind the curtains but the amount of detail that goes behind what I just expressed is books and books of stuff that we review every week in our integration steering committee meeting and have detailed reports of course for our Board and everybody else but we are most the way through all that work and now it is just about starting to grind back in the diary business in the difficulty of competition.
Thanks Mike.
I appreciate you filtering that for us.
Just a brief sort of question for you as an underwriter you and the team is underwriting portfolio manager one of things people have framed recently so idea there is a spectrum pricing stability in cyclical impact from same more syndicated insurance businesses on one hand and until like little less cyclical stuff like small accounts on the other.
Specialty lines kind of fit somewhere in the middle I guess.
I was curious you guys have a whole bunch of different businesses here that we sort of loop or link together.
I am wondering if that framework makes sense for you and if you do sort of where you throw your various businesses on the spectrum and how we should think about this whole idea of cycle sensitivity and sort of where you fit.
How is that informing your strategy as we start to feel the softening market? Well I will start with a couple of thoughts.
I mean ask Paul and Greg if they would like to add more clarification but our reserve first of all unless you are in a really hard or really soft period generally speaking it is not one cycle.
It is a whole bunch of little cycles.
In fact I touched on that when I talked about what is going on in energy and what is going on in political risk and crisis management and how differently we are approaching them because they are just in such very different phases of their own profitability cycle.
I think for our business so we generally seek to play in the morbid spoke and the more complex risks generally speaking.
We like the transaction in part because it really doubled down on specialty and reinsurance underwriting not exclusively do a lot of other things great but they really doubled down our loss and those we think are the lines of business which are the most innovative in the sector.
Over time as greater and greater opportunity comes we believe that that critical mass of creative insurance underwriting specialties by that I do not mean specialty lines.
I mean specialism will really be the differentiator for XL.
We can handle the rate of change going on in the world we think better than anybody over time and that is the biggest field for us.
That distinguishes from what I would call the commoditized underwriting lines where fundamentally the modeling has gotten so cycle so different in the way they vary not absent but very much tighter volatility as it were and where marketing costs and the other things become the greater driver of success.
We are still in more of the underwriting end of things weather individual risk or syndicated.
Generally remember that where we generally play is as a lead not just the follow-on so we would view that underwriting expertise as still critical even though we are heavy players in the syndicated lines but we are more - should not work individual underwriting does not matters we are more interested in where there is complexity to risk and we would say therefore we have lots of little cycles going on all the time and we are trying to sort through that to create the best possible portfolio.
Just I would in some ways reiterate what Mike just said.
I mean I think the importance of leaving business at the moment.
I mean cannot be overstated.
It's absolutely not a good market to be a - need to order following line.
I mean we get better insights we better get better client relationships.
You heard Mike talking about the Gracechurch surveys on both underwriting and claims and the survey in the U.S.
and Aon's recent calling us for best renovation in Asia.
Unless you are really at the top table in the lines of business you are - executed is very difficult to sustain that type of buying from clients brokers and everything else and does help us convert that into the margin and differentiated margin over time.
For us in reinsurance I think that top table that Paul referred to is having a broad set of product geography and the combination of XL-Catlin has really given us on a P&amp;C reinsurance basis a truly top-10 position.
We can service any clients' needs across a broad set of products and we can take care of their business just about anywhere in the world so that ability puts us in the conversation with top-tier reinsurers.
Thanks guys for being so comprehensive.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Just a couple of follow-up questions Pete the integration expenses you had given us some indication for the third quarter.
Frankly you weren't too far off of what you said.
I know you wanted to put some stuff out before you announced earnings next time.
At this point any indication for the fourth quarter what those expenses might look like? I have not done a very good job because I think what I told you you would have come to 42 and we came to 55 so I thank you for being nice but I am not sure I was accurate.
I may As we look to fourth quarter it is really hard to say.
I would say we are probably looking - that the third quarter was more the acceleration more than anything else.
I think fourth quarter will be higher than third quarter but nowhere near the same magnitude.
That is helpful.
Then the other one the $50 million in savings associated with outward reinsurance.
Where would that show up in the P&amp;L? This is why we have been careful to separate those three buckets of costs that are synergies claims around investments and around reinsurance because unlike OpEx which is the $250 million that we forecast these are actually very hard to point to explicitly.
You are going to see them in expense ratios you are going to see them in acquisition costs and you will see them hopefully in loss ratios but of course then you have to have known what we thought was going to be the case what does turn out to be the case so they are very hard to get your head on.
Some are absolute costs because the absolute level of reinsurance purchasing is likely to shift as we consolidate programs and therefore can negotiate fewer contacts and fewer fees and hopefully with greater impact but those are the simple costs.
It is the matter that we are really driving toward.
That shows a bit different part to the model at this point.
It will.
Yes.
That is okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Cliff Gallant with Nomura.
You may ask your question.
Good afternoon.
I had a question.
You mentioned Cyber insurance a couple of times in your remarks about that being a growth area and I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about what type of risks are actually being assumed here? Is this just for data breaches and how big is the book how many customers do you have? I mean anything that you can give us some color perhaps on how much risk is being taken as you go into cyber? The bulk of the - which is principally based on data breach as a team we had in place for four years.
Just coming up it is obviously growing quite rapidly.
As we have seen breaches in last quarter changed by the appetite and also in pricing and conditions.
We are obviously very careful in terms of policy construction most of the business would be retro date inception for example.
We would see single LIBOR [ph] growth across portfolio so it is one of the areas that we are a sort of extremely pleased with how the pricing dynamic is improving at the moment.
Is there like a type of client that XL specializes in when you think about the profile of who you are underwriting? The critical objective of that team is to write broadly diversified portfolio so you would not see a particular class.
We would mainly be dealing with a smaller clients we tend to stay away from kind of the big obvious retail financial and intend to just focus on mainly smaller clients with smaller limits.
Even if we did write in some larger programs we would write very small limits because we want a very broadly diversified book of small limit business.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thank you for taking my question past 6 o'clock I have a question similar to Cliff's.
I want to know more about the Chinese market and the syndication of losses for events like Tianjin.
Can you tell us the extent to which the industry is well penetrated in that market? Are you surprised so much showed up in the reinsurance verse insurance? Maybe you can just help us understand the shape of that market a little bit? Yes.
This is Mike.
I can give you some perspective and I will ask Greg to add in.
The first thing to think about is that in terms of the primary insurance marketplace is overwhelmingly written by the domestic carriers so that is why of course you would see it largely as a reinsurance impact for most say industrial carriers like ourselves.
While we did have some a percentage of the loss that came from a primary marketplace because we do by the way those would also mainly be syndicated losses on larger accounts to which we had a slice of in the Tianjin explosion vicinity but you would expect more to come in reinsurance.
We would tell you that China - first of all you can take out kind of personal lines and all the commodity businesses those that are being overwhelmingly grown by the domestic players.
We have had had meetings in China with folks that we do some business with there and it is simply remarkable.
The rates of growth the rights of sales and the way that they are building out those markets there are some non-Chinese success stories but when you study them they have been in the market for a long time and still have tiny market shares so that is not something we are involved with except for as a reinsurer.
When you get to the industrial and specialty spaces you do see some activity from outside of China insurers but it tends to be the case that that is on syndications for clients that have activities in China but do not originate in China.
For example we might follow a client to their plant in China with a portion of a treaty or something but we would not have written the Chinese competitors out of China.
That tends to be written by the domestics as well.
As we see the market it is mainly an opportunity for specialty expertise to be applied.
There we are seeing some success we see it principally through our own activities we see it also through the inherited of Lloyds Catlin operation in China.
Finally we see our market for those risks written out of Singapore that has become something of a territorial hub but the bigger opportunity and the more likely active area is going to be reinsurance we think for the foreseeable future.
Sure.
Just to put some numbers behind what Mike was saying from the 2014 year the international carriers in China represented 1.5% market share on the P&amp;C side and that is after some of them being added for 30 or 40 years so it is a very very small market between internationally and locally in China.
If I look at our loss I think it is fairly representative of any broad-based global reinsure like ourselves about 60% to 70% our loss is going to come from the domestic insurance marketplace which is going to be a range from personalized the small commercial to industrial properties so I do not have nor we would we have because most of our carriers write across that spectrum so I do not have a breakdown for you within those buckets what it looks like.
Another 20% of the loss is going to be from Cargo Marine-type losses from international players depending upon how the loss exactly was pushed out which is to yet be determined between what's Cargo and what's property.
Then there is kind of two smaller buckets for us 10% of it about being what is referred to sometimes as soft retro non-peak retro from either within China or neighboring countries.
Then the last 10% of was just large risks reassuring folks that look not dissimilar from XL Catlin insurance and might have an odd risk here and there so that is about to breakdown of the loss as we see it.
One question which might sound a little nave you learn something after every big loss.
After this loss do you come to the opinion that the business you are writing in that market it is fairly priced so that business could use more rates? After the event a couple things I would say we learned one I am quite pleased that we are less pro rata inclined as a carrier than the marketplace would be so we have less of the stake on those pro rata treaties relative to our market share and certainly that conversation needs to be had around the level of risk that is inherent within China marketplace relative to what we are getting and we would submit at this point we would need a little more rate to help compensate for that risk being taken on.
Thank you for the answers very educational.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Meredith with UBS.
You may ask your question.
Yes.
Thanks.
Two questions here.
First one just for Greg just curious Greg could you tell us what the impact you think that the changes in BCAR may have on renewals? I am not a BCAR expert but it has been as you can probably guess a topic of conversation over last couple of months.
Based on the last set of information I read from A.
M.
Best themselves one it is going to be a staggered implementations it is not going to be a hard jump at January 1 but through the course of '16 and then it will be a subjective one as they are with everything they do.
We do see it and we have had conversations already around by clients percentage buying more limit on the CAT side particularly ahead of that change orders of magnitude of kind of 10% to 20% more limited than they had brought before but it is still an evolving topic Brian.
Great.
Then second question for Mike you said at the beginning of the call that you are going through your budget for next year and you are pretty happy with the way they are coming out.
I am just curious if you take a look at the budgets today versus what you would expected back when you start the transaction how much of an impact increasingly competitive pricing environment can had on your kind of view of the potential profitability and then if that price competition eating into maybe the cost savings that you would have expected here going forward? First of all Brian that last bit is a really important element to think about.
It won't change how much we save.
It could change how much we earned.
Right.
Their earnings will be constant.
We will deliver the numbers that we have promised to deliver in streams lined operations and should our top-line be constrained by virtue of the marketplace.
Our goal would be to make sure our expenses savings reflect that in addition to what we are saving due simply to the possibilities of transaction so that is how we are thinking about that problem.
Which means that when you take those two statements together that means that we should be able to stay on schedule to both expand in double-digit our EPS and meaningfully uplift ROE so we do not see their market conditions as necessarily constraining our progress.
What we would say though is that it will require us to be even more firm on how we manage our expenses.
Now there are some level of market craziness that you cannot outrun.
We understand that but so far I think we are doing a hack of a good job at remixing our book to try and offset those pressures.
We will keep trying to do and if we think that market conditions have gotten so difficult that we have a difference to that we will talk about it.
At this point when I look at the budget for next year by the way I am always cautious.
I do not think that the word pleased actually crossed my lips.
We are still mid-way through the budgeting process and I am looking at all of my colleagues.
I do not think what they are taking from my face right now is pleasure but it is directionally in line with what we expect and it is within shouting distance of what ultimately I think we will need to be.
Perfect.
Thanks for the answer.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sarah DeWitt with JPMC.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Good evening.
I was wondering if you could help us understand what normalized EPS was in the quarter.
Yes.
Sure.
This is Pete.
I apologize.
I am not sure how to answer that.
Okay.
The reason I am getting around $0.50 if I take out Tianjin and normalize for the investment affiliates and take out the tax benefit? Okay.
Now I understand.
Thank you.
Thank you for that clarification.
We have not done that.
That would be pretty much I think backward normalized earnings guidance which we have not done that.
I think you have identified some of the things that you would look at.
Certainly Tianjin I mean again you can assume it is not going to happen.
There are expected losses is that portfolio.
The affiliates would be one.
Mike talked a little bit about the PYD so I think you would factor those in but we have not come up with what we thought the quarter would have been if not for a few of those.
Mike I do not know if you want to give any more color on the PYD.
Again I am glad Pete answered the way that he did because we can certainly through the four buckets that I described account for the difference between estimates and what we have produced.
Importantly none of those had to do with the core earnings of business.
It had to do with other items and this estimation is that given the cloud of the transaction I think are understandable but if you step back from it probably the one that has the most impact on go-forward I guess is how you think about PYD so maybe I could clarify that just a little bit more.
First of all remember we regret not having done it more forcefully but we did say that we did not think that there would be any release from Catlin in the third quarter because again that is an A versus E quarter.
We knew we had work to do to harmonize the two approaches for reserving so that will be done in the fourth quarter.
As I said in my comment you would intuitively expect that process would probably dampen any likelihood of releases in the fourth quarter from that Catlin book.
At the same time think about it this way.
First of all XL's reserving philosophy remains unchanged and that will be the going forward philosophy so that is the first thought.
Second though and by the way obvious with the disclaimer none of knows.
PYD goes where it goes and things certainly can surprise you that world but just if you would look at it right now the second thing I would say is the XL portion of our reserves continued to performance as expected so we are very comfortable with the way the prudence there has played out.
Third we respect to that Catlin portion reserve let us put it in scale the ratio of XL to Catlin reserves is 3:1 and they are performing as we expected them to according to our due diligence.
That is another important point to make.
We think the Catlin reserving approach made sense.
We have not seen any surprises but here is something important to understand.
We are in the process of harmonizing the approaches.
As the larger casualty rider XL has historically been a bit more conservative in the speed with which we were recognized development in the portfolio.
As we get to a consistent methodology this would likely you have to expect dampen the releases from the Catlin portion of the book at least if you were to look at just looking at the pattern of historical releases because we are going to that XL approach so I just think that that is an important thing to keep in mind when you are looking at potential favorable development.
We have just started recognize it and that is the philosophy that will now be applied across the piece.
Okay.
Thanks.
You think for the fourth quarter we should models mostly modest reserve releases? Again I cannot give you a direct guidance on that because we are still doing our work.
In the end we have the obligations to produce our best estimate and we will but I just would know what I have said.
It is likely that our approach which because of our long history in writing casualty there we have learned that you cannot ever wear rose-colored glasses the effective that is we have tend to be slower to react to positive news.
If that were true historically I think you would have had a different historical pattern from Catlin.
For XL there should not be any difference to what we normally do and there has been some happy consistency there.
Look I just remind you in the end that PYD is not plan on.
It is something that is studied in results whatever it is.
Thank you.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
You may ask your question.
Thanks for putting me in.
Maybe just one question maybe a follow-up to Kai and Brian's question regarding the go-forward sort ROE thought process if I look at the level of recessions can you sort of update where XL stands on maybe pursuing a hedge fund re-type of strategy going forward? Thanks.
Yes.
Look we have said in the past that we will be constantly looking for ways to apply our expertise and to partner with those who wish to participate in that marketplace but at this point I just have nothing to report.
We continue to work at identifying the best way forward.
Okay because there was some press speculation regarding something in the pipeline and it sounded it was fairly eminent? I am fairly surely you would not want me to comment on Fair enough.
Then maybe I will just switch very quickly.
In the opening remarks and I guess Jay was asking this question regarding the affiliate income have you ever previously disclose what percent of that $1 billion is event-driven maybe the different sort of buckets et cetera so that maybe we can have better insight as to how we sort of benchmark those different buckets or has that not been disclosed? Well if you go back to our 10-K I mean you will get a broad overview but not overly detail but I do think that if you would go look at it at a standard index like it is a HFRI or something like it at least get you in the ballpark.
Got it.
That is what I had.
Okay.
That is all the questions I have.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Newsome with Sandler O'Neill.
You may ask your question.
I just got a couple of a modeling questions and thanks for that.
One just the tax could you just give a little bit more detail as to what - benefit actually happened and is it fair to say that 10% normalizes is the right general number for us to think of prospectively? Sure.
Just real quick on the benefits so they were operating losses in the United States in the legacy Catlin book of business which they could not recognize.
They had to defer tax allowance on that.
When we conducted the transaction we put the legal entities together.
We made sure that the Catlin legal entities will underneath the XL legal entities and therefore you follow consolidated return to get the benefit be able to use that.
To the extent that there were losses from prior years they would have come all in the third quarter when we affected the reorganization to the extent that the losses would be coming into all of '15 that would be taken in three quarters in the third quarter in the last and the fourth quarter.
As far as your question about the 10% we really try not to give the exact numbers.
We have in the past at legacy XL we had that number slightly above 12.
I think with the lower tax positions that legacy Catlin had that number had come down.
I think I had talked about that and sort of in the 10 to 12 range so 10 I would say would be sort of at the low-end of that range but certainly in the range.
Okay.
That gets me where I need to go.
Then I was wondering if you have some guidance for us on how to think about your FX exposure of the combined company from a bottom-line perspective? You talking income statement or balance sheet? Income statement.
All right so in the income statement it really depends if this a mismatch in pretty much the legal entities between the non-monetary assets and liabilities.
For example this quarter you saw that I think we had about $12 million loss in income statement so that would be something like where we had all three assets in a non-monetary assets sitting in a U.S.
dollar denominated unit so there is no easy way that you could sort of say ballpark it should be something like this.
You have to go legal entity by legal entity and determine what the functional currency is in that legal entity and then compare what currencies the non-monetary assets and liabilities are so it is a fair question Paul but it is not one that I think I can give you a rule of thumb that it should be something like this.
We do manage the FX exposure but we do that really more on a balance sheet basis than on an income statement basis.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Meyer Shields with KBW.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
I will try to be quick.
I know it is late.
When you have accelerated integration expenses does that mean that there is also acceleration in the recognition? Should that $13 million delta from original guidance mean that we will save $10 million in the fourth-quarter? No.
When you think about it for example as we go through the FX on headcount because of the accounting rules you can book that expense when you know it by name and so on but that actual saving maybe later maybe a year or two away because some of the people who know that there won't be a future job might have a couple of years of work that we asked them to do and have lined up for them so it really depends on the specific category of expense.
Generally while we are continuing to accelerate the cost it does mean the less of the cost will be in the period when you have the synergy masking it but it does not mean necessarily that the synergy is brought forward.
They could be anytime during the three years.
Okay.
That is helps.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ian Gutterman with Balyasny.
Your may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Mike why do not I just ask a big picture one? We have dealt with a lot of different items that are maybe one-offs maybe not if I just asked you looking at your internal numbers for '16 and for '17 now versus the quarter ago are they really changed? I mean maybe a little bit on the margin prices as little bit different but has there anything materially changed? No.
Okay.
I think that is the main thing we are all after.
Then just one detailed question was probably one that I could come up so the Catlin reserves you talked about the casualty part but I guess they were surmise given their a mixed of business a lot of their releases would tend to be more property and event-driven so that if they had attritional IVR for energy and marine and things like that and there has been a losses this year why would not we expect in Q4 or at least Q1 of next year that has to be released? Again it depends on the mixed performance of those shorter tail and those medium and longer tail so it is really about how they all work together not just the one.
Okay.
I guess.
Isn't they are mixed more geared towards shorter tail lines.
I guess I would have thought historically that they would have well more than half of their releases be short tail than long tail.
I do not know that for fact but I would have guessed? In more recent years there has been pretty substantial growth in the casualty portion of the book so that pattern that you would have historically seen I would not expect to emerge in the way you described and that is why I made the comment that I did.
Perfect.
Thank you.
I will save the rest offline.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Farrell Piper Jaffray.
You may ask your question.
Thank you and good evening.
Just a question with regards core combined ratio mostly insurance business but you have obviously showed some nice improvement in the core loss ratio from mix changes but you had a lot of offset from the acquisition ratio too and I am wondering if the increase in acquisition ratio all from mix or is there some tighten competition marketplace that is also driving those costs up.
Then secondly how do you feel about your level of core loss ratio right now if you exclude Tianjin.
It looks like a pretty sold a level right now.
Do you need that to get lower to sort of hitting your goals or are there other levers and is there stuff in your control that you can continue to drive improvement in that core loss ratio? Thank you.
Yes.
I will start.
The biggest things that we can control well is a couple of things number one expenses expenses expenses.
I think that is in this part of the cycle the thing you can control most certainly yourself and that is why I make the comment that I did that why you cannot outrun everything going since we get a portion of it back and that is our job.
When you talk about the loss ratio you can continue to work on mixing your book of business appropriately.
The world is not one theme either by geography or by product line.
You can continue to refine your mix of business in order to get up that to try and offset the impact of deteriorating conditions in any one given segment and that is why we like having the broader breadth of product both in insurance and reinsurance and the broader breadth of debt in geography.
That this give us more choices around how to manage that.
Then of course if you become smarter in your reinsurance or retrocessional purchasing you also can gain a benefit over time but those are three levers that you have to hand and all of which we will be pulling on.
We are certainly very pleased with the overall attritional loss ratio as the two companies combined create.
While that creates some pressure on acquisition that is mainly due to mix with the much every year portion of cover holder writing that those going on and will be continuing to go on in the legacy Catlin or portion of the book.
We like having both of those expertises by the way because it gives us more ways to get to clients but those are the general commentary I would make and look at Paul and Greg and see if they have anything they want to add.
Yes.
I think other needle which you did not mention was we are obviously working to build up analytical insights to try and make [indiscernible] is more resilient in and of themselves.
I think as you look at the larger book of business you have great opportunities with the data site so there is definitely market headwinds but it is about converting all the tailwinds that we have got all those leaders and to more than offsetting and hopefully that will lead to a better outcome as we look ahead.
Yes.
I would say reinsurance that I think the only place you would see the slight increase in acquisition with ceding commissions gone up although I will say through July 1 we start to see a ceiling being set particularly on the long tail casual line - so that is the only part I think when you mixed it all together there is relatively small part of the overall equation but that is the driver of reinsurance.
Thank you very much.
I just have a really quick question Tianjin.
I am you curious do you have any reinsurance or retro protection that had kick in or will start to kick in at certain point.
I am just wondering if we had overall industry creep in the industry number if there is any projections that might start to offset that from your perspective.
This is Greg.
There are reinsurance protections that are from both legacy firms that they have come into play but there is a - I do not what Paul here for a second.
There is a risk? Clash.
clash between insurance marine reinsurance segment as well as but has not come into play yet but what if there is for the development.
Yes.
This is Pete.
The only thing I would add is that the number that we disclosed that net number our gross number was not materially higher that.
It was a little bit higher that but not of a huge magnitude.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Tunis with Credit Suisse.
You may ask your question.
Hey thanks for squeezing me in.
On the reserve integration I guess my question is could the impact of that have an impact on the accident year loss ratio on a go-forward basis like for instance if you conclude that Catlin hadn't been reserving as conservatively as XL? I do not think there is going to be anything material.
Certainly not that we have seen.
In a pricing environment like this you are always going to get some pressure on attritional loss fix.
If you remix your book you can dampen the impact of that but we would expect over time within our multiple years of softening pricing that there will be pressure over time on those picks and we are awfully happy to enter the period of time with such a breadth of product region to work among as we remix and also to have what we think is an unusual opportunity because of the bringing together the two firms and the expense side to hopefully even more than offset that.
Got it.
Then one quick follow-up for Pete I think.
Last quarter I think there was some fair value adjustments to lower the loss ratio on insurance.
Then something I think in the reinsurance side that raised the acquisition cost ratio.
Could you quantify what those were this quarter and is the forward look still the same as what you gave previously? Sure.
They were pretty close quarter to quarter so in total the acquisition cost the amortization was about $12 million and the reserve was $15 million.
Again I think I said last time the commission the result of amortization run off as you as you run off there and - reserve [ph] so by the first quarter of '17 it is pretty much over.
The reserve one goes up over the life for the Catlin reserve so that one does last a little bit longer.
Okay.
That is what thought.
Thanks so much guys.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vinay Misquith with Sterne Agee.
You may ask your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Pete just a follow-up so the $15 million of the amortization that is going to last through the end of '16 correct? The $15 million of amortization so the amortization for going to the end of '16 that was on the acquisition cost right so that was $12 million.
That goes through the end of '16 and then drops off almost to nothing the reserves which was the '15 one will go through '16 will continue into '17 and you will see it stop to drop off later in 17.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thank you.
Big picture for Mike Mike just curious as to why you think the profitability has not really changed for the future despite softening? Are you planning to remix the book or is it sort of higher expenses? Thanks.
First we would expect to all the expense lever harder should it be necessary particularly given where premium might go as we remain disciplined underwriters.
As we have said before it has turned out that the merger has been incredibly well received so we have a lot of new opportunities to look at too.
We get to shift through an awful lot to find things that you like in a market like this but you can find them out there.
A second opportunity for us as we renew business business that you know and are comfortable with we may be able given our new presence in the market do even better with those clients and we have certainly seen indications of that as we worked along.
The third thing is the remixing and I have spoken very directly about that with illustrations but that is a constant.
I mean that is not something we would just be doing next year that is something we would do every year to try and get to right place.
As I have indicated it would not surprise me in the coming years to have some pressure on that attritional loss ratio because of the amount of the rate that has been coming off on consecutive years now but I also think that so far our ability to damp that impact as proven but having this breadth of geography and product mix really does give you an opportunity to offset that meaningfully and that has certainly been the case so far and then I do not see any reason that we won't be able to continue to offset it into the future.
When you do that it makes it a lot easier to get that last bit done with rates.
Look these are difficult market conditions but we are I would say at this way we are even more grateful that we Stephen Catlin raised the possibility and that we were able to consummate this transaction because that get both firms into a position that was much stronger relative to these very different market conditions.
Okay.
That is fair.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the call over to the speakers for closing remarks.
I am sorry.
This is Pete I just want to go back and clarify Paul some questions about the alternatives.
We hold the K in two difference places in Note 7 we have lay four buckets out for the affiliates and then in Note 8 related same four buckets out for the non-equity accounted affiliates so that is where you wound non equity accounted hedge funds that is where you would - if you want more detail that is where you would go.
Listen I know we have gone longer than we usually do but obviously as we have mentioned before it is a difficult time to get it right.
It is a difficult time to estimate what is going on.
We want to provide as much clear as we could not answer every question as best we could.
We remain as you can tell a very bullish about what this transaction enables us to do not just now but into the future.
We are excited to be up there working with clients and with their brokers partners and we are incredibly proud of the work that our colleagues have been doing and we are delighted to be able to say to them that we are getting to the backend of the worse of it and onward and upward from here and that has been a long time coming so it is they were hoping enter this holiday season on something of a high note after all of the hard work for both of these organizations really beginning from the time of the leak last year.
Thank you for your attention for your very thought questions and we look forward to next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.