[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Matt Kelley with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I was hoping you could first talk a little bit more about the integration of the iShares and BlackRock retail sales teams.
Your commentary is very helpful.
But how do you think this gives you an edge in approaching retail and the other client bases you just mentioned? And how big of -- what's the approach to them and how big of an impact do you think it could be? I'm going to have Rob answer that.
So as you know we have a lot of products on our platform.
And what we're finding is that the dialogue that we're having with the financial advisers is more wholesome.
They use both mutual funds.
They buy stocks bonds and use ETFs.
And what they want to have is a more wholesome conversation about how to use both in their asset allocation.
So we think by sending someone there and combining that group to have those more wholesome conversations that we're able to expand the type of business that they're doing with BlackRock because they're looking for stewardship advice and solutions and not just someone that's coming in with one particular product.
We also think by combining this we'll have a greater outreach because it takes more time to have those wholesome dialogue.
And in order to expand our reach we want to have more people in the field having those direct conversations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just following up on the ETFs again you mentioned your thoughts on the future fixed income ETFs potentially being a $2 trillion market.
I'd be curious to get your thoughts on the future of both active ETFs obviously a small component of the market currently and then whether there's a potential to have a stronger presence for multi-asset in the ETF space.
So we are continuing to explore the active ETF market.
Currently we really don't have enough evidence to show that that is going to expand as dramatically as putting fixed income ETFs in more of an asset allocation model.
That's where we're focused right now using fixed income.
But we do believe that that is going to continue to grow.
It gives clients a more liquid way to be in the fixed income market.
As far as the multi-asset we think that is a huge growth opportunity one that we are particularly set up to do because people are looking for a the asset allocation and in fact a way to enter more high-yielding instruments like alternatives.
And we think that there will be many many more opportunities to iShare various vehicles that are in the marketplace.
So we look at that as growth opportunities for us as well.
Matt this is consistent with what we've been saying.
We're not suggesting there's not room for active ETFs.
We just don't believe as the overall industry is going to be driving that much of the growth and the real key will be using ETFs as a tactical allocation product.
As evidence of what we did with this institutional pension fund by allowing them to simplify their huge fixed income positions and having 4 different dynamic fixed income ETFs allows them to move around the allocation from emerging markets to credit to low duration and back and forth.
And we believe you can earn alpha through that mechanistic way of moving around your weightings by those categories using ETF.
This is what we believe is going to be a lot more dynamic.
So allowing the investor to do more of that asset allocation within fixed income institutionally will lead more and more institutions that can be driving this.
This is one of the big reasons why we believe it could be a $2-plus trillion market Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions.
One most of these pricing changes are pretty immediate and one of your competitors has some transition issues.
So the question is what's the timeframe to see some effect potentially on flows and our market share? And then secondarily we've never really talked about ETF margins not that I'm asking for the number so to speak.
But as you think about margins over time assuming this change doesn't affect the overall revenue yield I guess can you talk about the benefits of scale a more effective sales force? What's happening with the direct cost? It looks like those are coming down a little bit.
And then where does new product development cost fit in there et cetera? So initially we don't expect to see any savings from our combination of the sales force.
We want to see how this is going to work.
We want to size it properly.
We want to make sure that they're having the appropriate dialogue.
And we think we'll see increased sales.
But we're not expecting that right out of the box to have any incremental savings on that.
So that's really the first part of it.
As far as the margin goes we don't break down the individual products in that way.
But we can certainly say that iShares contributes to the healthy 40% operating margin that we currently have and we expect that to continue.
And the other part of your question is that how soon do we expect to see growth in the new products? We have the pedal to the metal here.
We're going out in advertising.
The sales force is ready.
It takes a little time to go out and talk to everyone but we're working hard on ramping these products up as quickly as possible.
Those are the foreign new products.
And as you know the 6 existing ones that we have changed the price we are already seeing flows into those particular products.
So those are already outstanding and ready to be ramped up in new products.
We're going to have everyone out discussing it and hope to do it as soon as possible.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could follow up just on the margin issue again I mean obviously scale is of benefit but are the other inputs stable increasing decreasing? Any thoughts on that? On the overall margins? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the ETF side I'm sorry.
Oh.
There's always going to be more and more competitive pressure.
But we're not here to tell you that there's not issues like that.
But it really depends on the mix of the products.
I mean some of our margins increased in our ETF products because of the mix of business.
So it is a mix issue more than anything else.
It is the mix business -- much more dominant than competitive issues and things like that.
So if you could describe to me where the mix is going to be I could describe to you what the direction of the margin is going to be.
But we're very comfortable with where we are today in our margins.
We don't think the margin is going to dramatically change over the future.
And if the mix changes to much more -- like it did this quarter.
With more equities the margins improved.
If the mix goes more back into fixed income the margins will be reduced.
I'd say I don't think there's any mystery there.
Let me just touch on one thing because you asked the question kind of vague related to the changes in one of our competitors.
We aren't seeing flows into our existing products because of the changes of index providers with our competitor.
But I'm not getting into any more detail than that? LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious about the strategic decision here to initially roll out 10 ETFs.
Obviously you guys have the capability to do a much larger number than that for the new buy-and-hold investor that you're targeting.
Any thoughts there as to maybe you might see this expand a little bit or do you feel like this is a good initial launch? No we've done a lot of work on this and we've been working on this for the last 6 months trying to really identify the major core products that this buy-and-hold sector is interested in.
And we want to have the large and very liquid products that they're looking for.
And this is the group that we identified.
We will start here as our clients need change.
Then we'll look to -- if we need to make as much change we'll change.
But this is a lot of research over the last 6 months to make these changes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up I guess have you had any thought as to how Vanguard might react to this? I'm just wondering maybe if you guys could comment what you might be prepared to do if Vanguard turns around and reduces fees further on their end? Did you feel like you're fairly well positioned at this point? Or might that result in another reaction? Vanguard is an excellent company.
They have a great market position.
They have a great brand.
I'm not here to talk about my competitors.
They are actually a big client of BlackRock too.
So I'm not here to discuss what Vanguard may or may not do.
I believe we're in a very good position.
I think we responded to some elements.
But let me just say overall this is not a price war.
This is all about working with our clients.
I think you guys and I'm kind of -- I mean including the press have created this myth about a price war stuff.
There's nothing related to a price war.
We did not think about this as a price war.
We thought about this as a means to be much more comprehensive to our clients to provide as Rob said core products that will fit our clients needs who have different dimensional needs than some of our other clients.
And so we've got to move on from this myth about a price war.
As this -- we had our healthiest quarter.
We are very optimistic about where we are.
We're well positioned in product engineering and product design.
That's what's -- that's the greatest dynamic that's going to fuel ETFs.
It is not about pricing and all that.
It's responding to clients to provide products that fit the needs of clients as they expand in product as they expand geographically.
And I think we are as well positioned as any firm in the world in the ETF world to be responsive to our clients in products in geographic mix and in design and then linking these products into a solution-based relationship.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Look I'm sorry to beat the dead horse on the ETF pricing issue.
But I did have another one.
I could see why matching or not matching rather fees on the emerging market product to Vanguard's VWO is sensible.
I guess you'd have to assume pretty drastic decay rates on your products that sort of the management for that to be an economic decision.
But I'm wondering still if some fee cut in that product might have been prudent as it relates to institutional traders.
And specifically do you have an idea of how much of your market share lost to Vanguard over the last 3 years was from leakage from an institutional trader segment? And might you be overestimating the importance of a secondary market liquidity in maintaining that segment's loyalty? The secondary market liquidity is tantamount.
I think we have 3x more liquidity in that product than any Vanguard product.
So it is an institutional choice and we continue to do that.
The one thing that people are failing to look at too is institutions by and large want to use the MSCI Index and so that's a big change too going forward.
But the one thing that no one is focusing on if you're an institution you're much more attuned to tracking error.
You're much more attuned to liquidity bid-ask spreads.
And if you add up liquidity you'll add up the most recent tracking error differentials.
The spread that you're suggesting is far smaller than what it really is.
And institutions understand that.
It's a harder thing to understand if you're retail.
But institutional and this is why we are continuing to see $6 billion of growth this is why we continue to believe what we're doing is the right one.
And you know what we'll find out in a year or 2 if we're wrong.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the new emerging market product hundreds of ETFs that have been launched over the years that never really gained traction.
So what gives you confidence that this product will succeed given that it's arguably not first to market in the buy-and-hold segment? And in your research on the segmentation of these markets how important did you determine that the first market advantage is to customer segments exhibit greater price elasticity? No question.
First to market is a huge advantage.
That has not changed.
That has been our position and we've discussed this over many years.
And obviously we are aware of first market issues.
On the other hand we do believe the brand of BlackRock and the brand of iShares is quite compelling.
Most ETF platforms are just not growing enough.
They're not going to achieve scale or velocity.
And I do believe we have an advantage with our platform.
Our platform that we have in retail our platform that we have globally and institutionally allows us to have more connections with retail clients and more importantly with institutional clients globally.
So there's no question first market mover is a very compelling strong foundational issue.
We know we can't change that dimension because we fully believe that is a very compelling dimension in terms of looking at growth of ETF product.
But we do believe just like -- with our brand with our brand advertising backing this we believe we have a large opportunity in hand in building our market share in that product.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to ETFs -- I'm sorry also to beat the dead horse.
As you look out a company let's say you are successful in building out this buy-and-hold strategy the pricing differential between the maybe your institutional liquidity-driven investor it's pretty sizable.
So is there a risk of any kind of sort of adverse arbitrage even without incremental pricing back and forth between you and Vanguard Schwab what have you.
But just internally just in terms of that adverse shift have you thought about that in the sort of...
There's no question if our core products can build more rapidly than you think there's no question you could see a slow burn from the large product -- from the existing product to the smaller one.
I'm not here to suggest otherwise.
In addition first of all our fees are not our decision.
There are mutual fund and in this case our iShares board's decision.
So I don't want anyone -- it's pretty hard for me to discuss this.
I don't even -- I'm not on the board Rob is.
But it is a board decision related to fees and it is the board's decision to determine how should fees be looked upon versus various products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe a 2-part second question.
When you mentioned before the world going to a more of a service solutions based business between sort of the beta and some of the alpha strategies what's the outlook for active equity mandates generally? And then the second part of the question is if you're successful in getting to $2 trillion of fixed income passive inflows in fixed income where does that come from and the implication for the fixed income businesses at large? Let me address the fixed income side first and we go on to passive and active and I'll let Rob discuss that too.
On the fixed income side I think Basel III has a huge implication and the Volcker Rule related to capital positions for banks and security firms.
They're going to have to have higher capital balances.
And therefore they're going to have to charge more for their balance sheet.
This is totally -- this is totally in the same direction how we think about our building and trading platform if we need to create more liquidity.
So unquestionably investors in fixed income are feeling the issue around liquidity and fixed income.
And if more and more institutions who are actively investing in fixed income are being punished by the bid-ask spreads which erode active returns which is a real threat we believe more and more institutions are going to put a large component of their fixed income in this type of strategy by owning 4 5 6 core active fixed income ETFs and move around that dynamic.
And we're seeing that.
We have more and more dialogue.
We're in a dialogue with one other large institution right now in doing that.
So I believe that trend is going to be a major component.
Now if miraculously we see some very tight bid-ask spreads and we see less pain in trading actively fixed income maybe the outlook on fixed income will be lessened.
I mean we are responding to the market and trying to be solutions-based relationships with our clients.
And this using ETFs as a solution is a very good way of minimizing that trading reduction.
It certainly reduces operational risk for clients who are sitting with huge pools of fixed income.
And so we are obviously very involved in various dialogues on this.
But importantly we're seeing more and more clients who are tactically allocating using fixed income ETFs and we believe this will continue.
So Bill if you believe that Dodd-Frank Volcker Rule Basel III is going to have a permanent impact in the way of balance sheet treatment for security firms and banks in terms of making markets which means wider bid-ask spreads then the usage of ETF fixed income is going to grow.
If you don't agree in that outcome and you think we will get more normalized again than we have it in this past year then you may not see as much growth.
But let me -- before Rob turns over let me just say we'd done something very fundamental about fixed income and equity.
This is really a beta-alpha issue related to the alpha part of equities.
If fundamental equities outperformed consistently the indexes you are going to see then more flows back into alpha products.
That's -- so you're going to see the ebb and flow from index into alpha and back and forth.
One of the big reasons why we are aggressively building our -- and you may say this is wrong but we are aggressively building our alpha fundamental equity teams because we believe there will be a time where active managers outperform with consistency.
Hopefully those teams are at BlackRock and we're going to get the flows then.
And we're seeing that already.
Albeit small we are the -- we have a -- our European equity team is the top decile team over the last 5 years.
We are actually winning about 50% of the flows in European equities in Europe.
Now 50% of the flows only represents $400 million $500 million this year.
And so if you have performance you are going to get those flows.
And I do believe that -- if the equity industry has a more consistent out-performance after fees by the way then you're going to see a mix change between beta and alpha.
But Rob do you want to respond to that? I'd say Larry has said it directly.
The field is narrowing based upon performance.
If you have the performance there are flows to get.
So I would not rule out active equity and we're going to build that area because there will be another cycle where active managers outperform their benchmark significantly enough for that money to move.
And we want to be there to capture that money.
The key is -- the real key is if you look -- talk about bar-belling for a second Bill there's just so much money flooding into alternatives.
And so we see that unabated.
But the reality is a lot of hedge funds are certainly underperforming the equity markets now for a couple of years.
And it looks like this year is going to be another year where most hedge funds are underperforming.
The real question will be is there a pivot point whereby investors start saying "Gosh I maybe not as interested in hedge funds strategies or as much and maybe I will use some of that allocation to go back into fundamental equities." So don't just think it's active-passive.
It is also a balance between investing in alternatives and fundamental equities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I certainly hear your point.
It's coming through loudly and clearly that the ETF market is segmenting and that there has been historically a group of capital markets participants who value the liquidity type bid-ask spread and so forth.
But I'm hoping you can build on your earlier answer or your answer to an earlier question by answering the following: To the extent that the history of finance has basically seen lots of deep pressure in the institutional side of the business as well with brokerage commissions coming down bid-ask spreads narrowing on the institutional side of the business why shouldn't we think that the same price pressure or price consciousness on the part of customers in the buy-and-hold segment will over time manifest itself in the other segments that you say is currently not all that price-sensitive? Well what we're saying also that segment is also looking at the bid-ask spread as a component of cost and they're looking at tracking error.
So from that segment they're looking at all 3 and the totality of those 3.
And what I think there's a failure of people recognizing the 2 other costs.
So I'm not suggesting they're not thoughtful about costs.
But keep in mind for a lot of the trading-oriented organizations if they're tactically allocating they're looking at much more -- they want to make sure that they get as close to the index as possible that's their tracking areas.
They want to make sure that they have the liquidity.
And so unquestionably in our conversations and dialogues with those institutions fees are less important.
I am not suggesting though that fees and the trends in fees across all of our businesses are under review continually.
If you provide the right solutions though fees become less dominant.
And so this is an industry that in my mind has those types of dominant pressures.
As I said we saw that evident in our loss of our $70-odd billion fixed income product where some -- our competitor are willing to do it almost at cost.
So that's another evidence of -- you could call it fee pressure we would call that kind of stupidity.
But -- so I don't want to leave anyone with the notion that we're not constantly reviewing our products.
We're not constantly reviewing how those products are performing.
And obviously it's undeniable lower fees are better than higher fees for our clients.
Rob do you want comment on? Let me just say look it's a very generalist question.
Over time it will depend upon what the competition is what the value proposition is and then what the innovations are that we're able to establish to want people to come to our products and they're willing to pay for those innovations.
So we have to be on the cutting edge and we have to earn the fees from them.
And that's what our strategy has been for the last 20-odd years.
But what you're talking about is that everything always reverts to price.
And remember we have vendors too.
So we understand that from our perspective as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick -- one second question my final one regarding your advertising.
It's curious to me that you're doing this mass market with the Yankees and so forth.
In the sense that -- are you trying to create an outcome in which customers come into -- let's talk about the retail segment -- customers come into retail brokerage firm and ask for iShares or rather...
Yes.
Yes yes yes.
We have been told by our distribution partners we need -- if we're going to be the #1 or 2 largest providers of products largest providers of solutions in both iShares and in our mutual funds we needed to have more brand awareness.
And -- that is -- and so we've been told by our distribution partners it is necessary for us to have more branding more brand recognition to support their effort in selling our products.
So we are responding to our clients and they were loud and clear to us a year ago in that we needed to build brand awareness.
That is truly our objective.
And in a very short period of time we are achieving some of that.
And it's a long story and it's going to take time.
And time if you have the message over time that message becomes very strong.
And the great brands have strong brand messages that are resilient over time.
That is my #1 priority related to this brand branding effort.
So we can have a long-standing brand effort that has a connection with the retail client.
So our distribution partners can find it much easier to talk about BlackRock or BlackRock iShares products.
No.
It's -- we have a lot to look forward to a lot of volatility.
We have a presidential election.
We have a fiscal cliff.
We have -- and we also have European uncertainty in front of us.
Setting that aside though BlackRock is as well positioned to respond to all those issues to our clients to help our clients in terms of understanding how to deal those uncertainties.
And as we said in our branding initiative BlackRock was built for these times to be responsive to our clients to helping our clients overcome the uncertainty around all of these big macro issues.
And lastly I just want to thank all of the employees of BlackRock for a great quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!