Please standby.
We’re about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the Bemis Company Hosted First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Erin Winters.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter 2015 conference call.
Today is April 23 2015.
After today’s call a replay will be available on our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations section.
Joining me for this call today are Bemis Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Austen; our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mike Clauer; and our Vice President and Controller Jerry Krempa.
Today Bill will begin with comments on strategy and outlook for 2015.
Mike will then discuss financial performance.
After our comments we’ll answer any questions you have.
However in order to allow everyone an opportunity to participate we do ask that you limit yourself to one question at a time with a related follow-up and then fall back into the queue for any additional question.
At this time I’ll direct you to our website bemis.com under the Investor Relations tab where you’ll find our press release and supplement schedules.
In Mike’s discussion of the financials to specifically be referring to page 5 of the supplemental schedules.
On today’s call we’ll also discuss non-GAAP financial measures as we talk about our performance.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures that we consider most comparable can be found in the press release and supplemental schedules.
And finally a reminder that statements regarding future performance of the company made during this call are forward-looking and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from historical expected or projected results due to a variety of factors.
Please refer to Bemis Company’s regular SEC filings including the most recently filed Form 10-K to review these risk factors.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Austen.
Thank you Erin and good morning everyone.
Today we reported adjusted earnings of $0.61 per share an increase of 17% over the prior first quarter.
I am pleased with the progress we have made toward our long-term performance goals.
In line with our strategy we increased sales to our target end markets in every region of the world including packaging for meat and cheese dairy and liquid and medical device and pharmaceutical applications and we commercialize this new business with operational efficiency.
We delivered our highest gross margins in years driven by strong operational performance across the entire business by our strategy to sell the right value added products.
We increased operating profit margins in our U.S.
packaging business to 13.5% a 110 basis point increase over the prior first quarter an improvement toward our goal of 15% to 18% in this segment.
We increased adjusted operating profit margins in our global packaging segment to 8.8% a 200-basis-point increase over the prior first quarter again reflecting excellent progress toward our goal of double-digit returns in this segment.
We generated $85 million of operating cash flow a vast improvement over prior first quarters and on our way to meeting full-year expectations.
We demonstrated cost discipline as reflected on our flat SG&amp;A spend in line with our expectations.
And finally as planned we executed capacity expansions to support both productivity improvements and the growth of value-added products.
Specifically this quarter several new pieces of equipment came online.
In Europe an e-beam curing unit for our popular shrink films used in meat applications.
In the United States a printing press a 9-layer blown film line and a state-of-the-art laminator all used for a variety of products supporting growth and productivity.
And in Latin America the first seven-layer blown film line in Mexico was commercialized to support growth and sophisticated high-barrier films from media applications.
Our continuous capital allocation process is helping accelerate the pace of future growth and I am excited about the variety of machines coming online during the remainder of 2015.
Everything from extrusion capacity in Asia to support media applications to slitters in the U.S.
to provide additional efficiencies to coating capacity for our global medical device packaging business we’re moving many things in the right direction.
But this quarter wasn’t without its hurdles currency in unit volumes challenged us and we still have opportunities for further operational improvement.
Some color on each of these items.
First currency earnings were dampened this quarter by almost $0.03 from currency translation as the U.S.
dollar strengthened significantly against the Brazilian real and the euro.
Our strong mix of products and operating performance helped us overcome this EPS headwind.
And while we can’t precisely predict how currencies will move throughout the rest of the year we are focusing on cost discipline throughout the entire business to overcome this hurdle during 2015.
Next unit volumes while we increased sales across the globe in our target end markets this quarter including good unit volume increases in Europe Asia and our healthcare packaging business overall unit volumes were dampened by light consumption in the U.S.
and Latin America.
In the U.S.
early data suggests that retail food sales were down a couple percent this quarter.
Coming into 2015 our anticipation was that the overall food environment in the U.S.
would be flat.
We expected to grow above that environment through the introduction of new innovative products.
While we did see our planned growth projects come to fruition this quarter overall unit volumes were dampened by the sluggish environment in the U.S.
and by some customer delays of certain shipments.
I’m still optimistic as capacity comes online and new products continue to commercialize throughout 2015 that will deliver positive year-over-year volume growth.
And I do think we will outperform our end markets.
In Latin America we also delivered on our planned growth projects this quarter including those for the value added meat and cheese and dairy and liquid end markets which positively influenced our margins.
However the continued tough economic environment and lower food production negatively impacted unit volume in the region.
I do anticipate that our continued high barrier product commercializations throughout 2015 will provide margin strength and differentiation.
And finally operational efficiency.
As you may recall in the second half of 2014 we’ve experienced operational inefficiencies in our U.S.
business related to select new product commercializations that burdened profitability.
While we have made progress in resolving a portion of these inefficiencies we expect these items to be fully resolved during the third quarter of this year.
Our business teams have diligently applied lessons learned from last year’s operational challenges to this year’s new product launches and have successfully minimized waste and maximized throughput while achieving commercial scale on our new product launches.
Turning to the full year.
We are confirming our EPS guidance for 2015 in the range of $2.52 to $2.67.
As mentioned at the beginning of the year and earlier in my comments today where we are within the range will depend on the impact of currencies in Latin America volume growth in our target end markets and successful commercialization of new business.
I remain very confident that we will continue to deliver improvement throughout 2015 toward out long-term goals.
As we enter our seasonally strong second quarter customer orders have increased to seasonally high levels.
We are keenly focused on margin and ROIC improvement.
We are accelerating growth with our capacity expansions to support the growing demand for our high-end packaging used in protein liquid medical device and pharmaceutical applications.
We continue to deliver innovation with new product introductions that are on pace and are providing margin improvement across all regions.
We remain intently focused on our customers as when they succeed we succeed.
And we are striving to continuously improve all we do.
In summary I’m pleased with our performance this quarter and look forward to further improvements as we continue executing our strategy.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mike for his comments on the financials.
Thanks Bill and good morning.
As Bill mentioned we reported adjusted earnings of $0.61 per share a 17% increase compared to the prior first quarter.
We delivered solid improvement in gross margins at 20.9% versus 19.3% the prior first quarter.
As I will discuss in detail during the segment review most of this improvement came from improved price mix as we are executing our strategy to sell a higher portion of value-added sophisticated packages.
As expected we also had a small tailwind this quarter from the recent drop in resin prices of just under $3 million.
We see this resin tailwind essentially as a onetime item that will not repeat in the second quarter due to the timing of past dues and recently announced increases in resin prices.
I will provide comments on each reportable segment followed by a discussion on total company expenses and performance.
First U.S.
packaging which represents two-thirds of our revenue.
Following page 5 of the supplemental schedules in the first quarter excluding the impact of the 2014 divestiture of our Paper Packaging division our U.S.
segment delivered organic growth of 0.009% which was driven primarily by price mix.
Overall unit volumes were down approximately 2% compared to the prior first quarter.
Unit volumes in our meat and cheese end markets increased single digits reflecting strong demand for our innovative packaging used in protein snacks and high-barrier shrink applications.
We are pleased with the growth that resulted from our successful commercialization of planned projects.
Throughout the rest of our end markets there are a variety of up and downs but as Bill mentioned overall unit volumes were dampened by the sluggish environment and some customer delays of certain shipments.
Going forward we will continue our strong pricing discipline in competitive end markets such as confection and snack pet foods and various dry foods where technology differentiation is less important and we are selectively improving our competitive position with investments to support these end markets.
While volume is important to us our main focus is increasing the margins in our business.
U.S.
packaging operating profits return on sales for the first quarter was 13.5% compared to 12.4% to prior year.
First quarter returns benefited from the Paper Packaging divestiture the favorable mix of sales of high-technology products such as meat and cheese and continued productivity initiatives.
Now I’ll move to our global packaging segment which represents about a third of our revenue.
In the first quarter global packaging sales decreased 6.6% currency decreased sales by 12.6% as both the currencies in Latin America and Europe have devalued against the dollar.
Excluding currencies global packaging delivered total organic growth of 6% driven by favorable price mix.
Overall unit volumes of global packaging during the first quarter were relatively flat.
Some regional details on volume units in our European Asian and healthcare packaging business were quite strong averaging a 4% increase over the prior year.
In line with our strategy this growth was driven by our targeted end markets meat and cheese in Europe meat and electronics in Asia and medical device packaging across the globe.
Overall units decreased in Latin America offset the other regions of our global packaging segment as a result of the continuing tough economic conditions in the region.
Despite overall units being down in Latin America we did see unit volume growth in meat and cheese and dairy and liquid from a variety of new products in line with our strategy to increase the mix of sophisticated value-added package.
Before we’re doing operating returns in our global segment I will touch on the planned closure of our healthcare packaging facility in Philadelphia.
As background you may recall that while our medical device and pharmaceutical packaging business spans Latin America Europe Asia and the United States the total results of our healthcare business are included in the global packaging segment.
During the first quarter we initiated the planned closure of our healthcare packaging facility in Philadelphia where operations are scheduled to cease by the end of 2015.
As we look to continuously elevate our industry-leading quality in our healthcare packaging business to meet the growing demands of our customers the move of the current business run in Philadelphia to our expanding state-of-the-art healthcare packaging facility in Oshkosh Wisconsin will benefit both our customers and our business.
The capital investment in our healthcare facility in Oshkosh will strengthen our competitive advantage in this risk-averse end market that demands zero defects.
When completed later this year our new healthcare facility will house the largest clean room operation for medical device packaging in North America.
Related to the Philadelphia closure we recorded a $5 million pre-tax charge that was reported as restructuring on the first quarter 2015 income statement.
This charge includes estimated costs related to employee severance and benefit costs to withdraw liability of a multi-employer pension plan and fixed asset-related costs.
We expect the total charge in 2015 to be approximately $8 million with two-thirds of that impacting current-year cash flow.
The future margin benefits of this strategic move were included in our long-term margin targets that we reviewed with you at our March Investor Day.
Our healthcare business remains strong and is an integral part of our growth strategy as we further extend our industry-leading quality.
Turning to the topic of the returns in our Global Packaging segment another very profitable quarter.
Adjusted Global Packaging operating profits return on sales for the first quarter of 8.8% compares with 6.8% for the prior first quarter.
High returns in Global Packaging were a result of improved price mix from the sales of meat and cheese and dairy and liquid end markets and strong operational performances throughout our regions.
Currency negatively impacted operating profit by $3.8 million this quarter related primarily to the translation of profits in Brazil to the U.S.
dollar compared to prior year.
Now on to consolidated Bemis.
Selling general and administrative expense was $106.4 million relatively flat versus the first quarter of 2014.
In light of increases from inflation and pension expense I’m pleased with the disciplined cost controls we have implemented to control SG&amp;A spend and I expect this to continue and improve to help offset currency headwinds throughout the remainder of 2015.
Research and development expense for the first quarter was $11.3 million.
We expect to continue at this level that supports our strategy to accelerate the pace of innovation through the commercialization of new products.
The income tax rate for the first quarter was 33.8% in line with our expectations for the full year.
As compared to prior years the slight decrease is a reflection of the mix of lower tax rates associated with increased profits in the various regions of our global business.
As Bill mentioned cash flow from operations for the quarter totaled $85 million as compared to $12.5 million for prior first quarter.
I am pleased with this improvement considering that our historical first quarter cash flows have been close to zero.
We continue to target 2015 cash from operations in the range of $400 million plus with particular attention that working capital is not a use of cash this year.
Our business teams have a heightened awareness and a keen focus on cash flow specifically in managing inventory levels during new product commercializations and in opportunities to leverage and improve accounts payable terms.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were approximately $40 million as compared to $33 million in the prior first quarter in line with our expectations.
We continue to expect 2015 capital expenditures between $185 million and $200 million to support growth and productivity projects in the pipeline.
Looking next at return on invested capital.
At March 31 ROIC was 9.9% a solid increase from the 9.4% one year ago.
We continue to target year-over-year improvements in ROIC and our goal is to reach the top quartile of our peer group by 2019.
We’ll do so by continuing on our current path of making sound capital investments and improving overall earnings performance.
Turning to the full-year outlook.
As Bill mentioned we confirm adjusted EPS for 2015 in the range of $2.52 to $2.67.
As we shared with you at the beginning of the year our guidance assumes that foreign currency would remain at January levels throughout the entire year.
Our primary translation risk is Brazil and the reals has moved significantly since the beginning of the year.
If the exchange rate stays where it is today that presents an approximate $8 million headwind for the remainder of the year.
While we can’t predict where currencies will head we are maintaining our guidance range.
In summary I remain confident in our business and in our ability to further improve financial performance and create tremendous shareholder value.
With that we’ll turn the call over for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Ghansham Panjabi with Robert W Baird.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is actually Matt Krueger sitting in for Ghansham.
How are you? Good.
Great.
Can you talk a little bit more about the impact from customer shipment delays in the U.S.
what drove the delays and when do you expect shipments to return to normal? Sure.
Good morning Matt.
This is Bill Austen.
How are you? Good.
While we won’t talk specifically about customer names there was a piece of business that we have that the customer reformulated their drink their liquid from using going to natural sugar.
And that uptick in the market hasn’t taken place yet.
They haven’t quite got the reformulation down so they’re in the process of doing that.
So that delayed some of our shipments to them.
The second one is a piece of business that shifted from one customer is now being picked up by several other customers and they’re in the process of ramping up those sales.
Some of those volumes won’t come back but we anticipate as we go into the second quarter that we will see that liquid business comeback and we will see the other pieces of that business come back as well as it moves to a new customer.
So we anticipate seeing better volumes from both of those in the second quarter.
Great.
Also can you update us on your overall capital allocation strategy and do you expect your share buybacks to keep pace with the first quarter pace that you posted throughout the year? I’ll update you on the capital allocation process.
It continues to move well.
We get periodically new ideas new initiatives coming to the committee that we evaluate good projects are going to get funded.
As Bill – as we’ve mentioned at Investor Day it’s going to be a 15% after tax ROIC over a five-year cycle.
So that process is going well.
I’m not really going to comment on share repurchases this point in time as we are starting to kind of develop our acquisition strategy but again we’ll not say we’re not going to be repurchasing stock either.
And the next question is from Scott Gaffner with Barclays.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Hi Scott.
Hi.
My question was more on the margin improvement year-over-year.
At the Analyst Day when you outlined the longer term margin improvement I think you mentioned 50% innovation 30% productivity and 20% coming from price analytics in the longer run.
It sounds like this quarter maybe the productivity and pricing analytics was really the key driver.
Can you kind of frame that for us and just tell us if that was the case or not? Sure Scott.
Pricing analytics is really just – we’re just in its infancy stages.
So we’re just starting to get traction with that so the improvement in Q1 is really coming from productivity.
We’ve got a little bit from the resin tailwind.
Obviously the paper we no longer have paper cycling on so the paper divestiture and if you look at the 110 basis point improvement that we had in consolidated Bemis about half of it is productivity some from price mix resin tailwind and the paper divestiture.
Okay.
And just following up on that the $3 million resin tailwind that you have in the quarter and you sort of parse that between the international business and the U.S.
Packaging business.
Scott it’s about 50/50.
As you recall the business outs and Global Packaging tends to have a lot fewer contracts.
So you’re going – I think we did a better job of holding on to that for a period of time.
On the U.S.
Packaging piece if you recall about two-thirds is contractual.
And our next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Thanks.
Good morning Bill and Mike.
Hope you’re doing well.
One more on your margins.
So obviously your gross margins were up 160 bps in the quarter and you talked about the resin benefit the productivity et cetera as well as the sale of the paper business.
Can you give us some sense as to what you’re expecting gross margins to be up year-on-year over the balance of the year just given the divestiture of the paper business given your expectations regarding price mix the absence of the resin benefit? Just any sense as to what year-over-year improvements you’re expecting would be helpful.
Yes.
Good morning Adam.
This is Bill.
Yeah.
As we talked in our Investor Day our long-term goals for margins would be in Global Packaging greater than 10% and in U.S.
Packaging 15% to 18%.
We had solid performance in Q1.
We’re on our trend.
We’re on our glide path and we’re going to continue to execute our strategy so that we hit the 15% to 18% and the 10-plus percent in Global in the timeframe that we talked about at the Investor Day.
All right.
Thanks Bill.
And one on volume obviously you previously expected U.S.
Packaging volume to be up 2%.
I think you said it was down 2% on the first quarter.
You also talked about customer orders having increased to seasonally high levels so far in second quarter.
I’m not sure precisely what you mean by that.
But can you update us on what your full-year volume growth expectation for U.S.
packaging is now in light of what happened in the first quarter and what you’re seeing so far in the second? Yes.
Yeah.
Our – when we went into the planning season when we put 2015 plan together we assumed that food volumes in U.S.
would be flat.
But early indications are that food volumes in the U.S.
are down in Q1.
As we go forward we’re going to maintain our view that we will do better than whatever the food volume growth is or not is in the U.S.
going forward.
So we’re – we’ve maintained the factor.
We’re going to be better than what food volume growth is in U.S through the year.
The next question is from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning gentlemen and congratulations on a strong start to the year.
Thank you Chris.
I had a couple of questions.
A question or follow-up I guess I’ll send it around mainly working capital.
Just help me put this together if you can like I mean if you were down a chunk here year-over-year it looks like about $40 million in working capital.
I know you mentioned you had some resin benefits some help in there too but if your – your old guide I think was about $400 million $410 million something like that for – of cash flow with a kind of neutral working capital environment if memory serves.
If we’ve already kind of running $40 million or so below and perhaps it sounded too like you had some orders that were delayed that maybe even bloated the inventories a little in the short run until that start shipping out so perhaps even better why it’s still flat for the year for working capital? Why can’t you hold this for the balance of the year and maybe perhaps that looks conservative? How would you have us think about that? I would have you think about it that we’ve got a lot of good stuff going on right now as it relates to cash flow.
I see our biggest opportunity is in accounts payable and I’m very encouraged with the actions being taken by the purchasing department to improve our payment terms.
And I’m also very encouraged with what’s going on primarily in U.S.
Packaging as it relates to the inventory management in the U.S.
Chris I think it’s a little premature for me to call it any more than it is but I’m pretty confident that we are focused on working capital not being a use in 2015 and we are definitely putting efforts in place to hopefully make it a source.
Yeah.
That’s helpful.
And then my second related here to cash flow as well was D&amp;A was a chunk lower year-over-year.
What’s your assumption for the full year at current currency levels? I mean is it sort of a reasonable rate to track at or how would you want us to think about that? I think it’s a reasonable assumption.
It might slightly go up as the year progresses with some of these investments we’re making.
We’ll go next to Mark Wilde with Bank of Montreal.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Mark.
I wondered just going back Mike on the working capital when you were out here for the Analyst Day you talked about 400-basis-point to 600-basis-point reduction in kind of working capital sales over time.
What would the timeline on that look like? Well as I said in the Investor Day I mean when we ended 2014 our primary working capital was approximately 20% of revenue.
And we really do feel and have plans in place to drop that down to the 14% to 16% range.
But I believe I may – I said at the Investor Day is we’re putting actions in place to try to that goal by the end of 2016.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then if I could for a follow-on I wondered if either you or Bill could talk a little bit about what you’re seeing in acquisition markets and perhaps along with that what particular areas that you would be targeting for acquisition growth and maybe what geographic preferences you might have? I think as we kind of – we did discuss this also in Investor Day so first of all the market is picking up a lot.
There’s a lot of sponsor-led sales going on but we’re being very selective.
We clearly have defined in as you guys know what we want to own.
And then number two I would tell you that – my preference and I think Bill’s would be too that you’d see more acquisition activity in the Global Packaging side of the business than in U.S.
Packaging.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Your next question is from Philip Ng with Jefferies.
Good morning.
The 3% price mix in U.S.
Packaging was pretty impressive.
How much of that was mix versus pricing? And I guess with resin [indiscernible] is ticking in over the course of the year is that still a good run rate and how much run rate do you ultimately have over the next few years as you ramp up some of these new investments on the mix front? Yeah.
Phil this is Bill.
Yeah.
We don’t split price mix out.
It’s combined.
It was just under 3% price mix in U.S.
Packaging in Q1 this year versus last year.
We’ve got a large – we have a long way to go in this area.
We’ve got good opportunities for investment.
We’ve got good capital coming in to continue to change the mix of the business to continue to bring in the new products as we showed you during the Investor Day with our stage-gate process and those projects that were in the late-stage development and commercialization are all new technologies are all in new markets and are all at the high end of the sophistication curve.
So we think we have ways to go yet.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And I guess your reiterate your full year guidance.
But are you assuming current FX rates and what’s your assumption now on volumes? This is Mike.
First of all we did – we have assumed that we’re going to take the current reals headwind on as part of our guidance.
And as Bill mentioned from a volume perspective it’s hard for us – let me put it this way.
I feel really good about the fact that volumes were down and we were able to print a pretty strong growth number.
Does that help? Our next question is from Usha Guntupalli with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
How are you? We’re good.
Thank you.
Great.
Following up on your EPS guidance for the full year so looks like volumes had a slower start and you talked about FX headwinds and also potential resin hike.
But in spite of that you’re maintaining your guidance.
So where do we – where do you expect more offset? Would it be mostly from your pricing focus or more from operational execution? I think it’s – this is Mike.
It’s going to be coming more from operational improvements.
The discretionary spending we’re really taking a hard look at it and then just other SG&amp;A cost categories a lot more disciplined and rigor in how we’re spending our money.
And does your guidance also include further consolidations similar to the medical packaging such that you closed in the quarter? Yes it does.
Would you be...
Hello? We may have lost that question.
But we can bring it back in a bit.
Operator is there another question? Our next question is from James Armstrong with Vertical Research Partners.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
My first question is in Global Packaging you said the price mix improvement was 6% which is by amount about $21 million.
However the operating income increased by only about $9 million even with resin falling a bit.
Were there other cost increases or was the $21 million mostly due to price mix? Could you elaborate on that? Yes.
In Global Packaging where we’re seeing that come through is we are rolling out our technologies from the developed world into the emerging economies where we are moving the sophistication level of packaging up.
So it carries a higher level of technology i.e.
a higher level of price.
Okay.
That helps.
And then switching gears as Bemis focus is more on value-added products is there any way to decouple pricing from resins or other costs and do you think that would be a good long-term strategy? Not really clear on your question.
Yeah not sure.
What I’m really getting at is there any way to structure the contracts so that the resin’s pass-through at a faster rate? Yeah.
We do that now and we’re constantly reviewing our PAS and our pass-through calculations and the formulas we use to pass that along.
And we have been working diligently over the last few years to shorten up that time between increase and pass-through.
The next question is from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the details.
I guess the first question I have for you can you comment at all as to whether Bemis’s new focus on pricing and mix and return is leading to any share loss that you wouldn’t want in any of your markets? Clearly in this kind of exercise you’re always looking at the tell.
Some products that don’t make your return thresholds will ultimately – your customers for that matter – will ultimately be cut off.
But is there any unintended share loss that you’re seeing and if so could you comment to that? And if it’s not happening why do you think you’ve been able to maintain share while you’re driving price and margins up? George this is Bill.
Good morning Bill.
You know the charts we use to explain our mix of products to investors and we have been moving over the last few years and we continue to do that this year to the higher-margin higher-barrier content types of packaging.
We haven’t seen share loss in that area.
We’ve been growing gains.
We’ve been gaining in that area.
And yes there might on the right-hand side of that curve in the towel and tissue overwraps the confectionaries where we are driving price hard to increase price mix.
We may be losing some share there.
Absolutely.
But the model is put together today to drive high margin high sophistication level high barrier packaging and we’re – we don’t see share loss there.
We may be seeing it at the low end of the spectrum but we’re pushing on price there to increase margins.
Okay.
The second question I have and thank you for your commentary there I just wanted to try to and maybe not be too pedantic flesh out what your volume expectation is for U.S.
Packaging this year kind of piggyback on Adam’s question.
So recognizing that you want to do better than the market which is great and we’d like to see that too given what you see right now realizing there are no guarantees in life what do you think your volume growth could look like this year given what’s been a weaker start to the first quarter and how much is standup pouches in that growth as well if I can throw in a follow-on? Thanks.
Yeah.
George we’re not going to put a number on it.
What we’re going to maintain is that we feel we’re going to grow better than food volumes.
And if you look at our target markets of meat cheese dairy we are doing a nice job.
Our team in the U.S.
is doing a nice job there growing volume growth as well as in healthcare packaging not just in the U.S.
but globally and we’re going continue to push on that.
Pouches.
And on the standup pouch side if your remember back to the Investor Day there was a late-stage commercialization coming on line for next-gen standup pouch.
That is coming on stream.
We’re seeing standup pouch coming on stream with our new seven-layer capacity in Mexico that will be coming on later this year.
And we’re also driving more standup pouch growth for liquids based on the multilayer lines we put into Brazil in that part of the world as well.
So we feel good about standup pouch volumes.
Our next question is from Al Kabili with Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess Bill just piggybacking on George’s and some of the other volume questions the contributions from the new products and the growth you saw from that in 1Q is that a good run rate for how you’re thinking for the next of the year – for the rest of the year or might you see even more greater contribution from new products in terms of growth the remainder of the year? Could you still have some areas that you’re ramping up? Yes Al.
It’s a good question.
If you go back to our Investor Day we talked about our product vitality of being 15% sales in the current year from products that have been commercialized over the past three years.
That’s not a metric that we’re going to look at every quarter.
It’s a metric we’re going to look at twice a year start of the year midyear and we’re at the 15% level for our product vitality.
We’ve got a lot of projects coming on stream Q2 Q3 Q4 that are in late-stage commercialization right now.
So they’re being qualified by our customers.
We feel very confident.
We feel good about the pipeline that’s there and we feel good about the products that are coming on stream.
So we’ve got a nice flow of new things coming on throughout 2015.
Okay.
Thanks Bill.
I appreciate the color there.
And then I guess to switch gears to Mike on I guess on just some of the mechanics on the resin the $3 million benefit we had this quarter.
Just given FIFO inventory accounting and I realized there’s been some resin price hike announcements.
But given FIFO inventory accounting shouldn’t we see some resin tailwind in the second quarter and perhaps even higher than that $3 million in the first or just kind of help us with how we should think about the mechanics there? Thanks.
Al I think – I used to think about the mechanic’s in search of price increase that’s been announced and so I’m looking at the fact that I don’t see anything really coming in the second quarter to the benefit side.
We’ll go next to Debbie Jones with Deutsche Bank.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Debbie.
I was wondering the typical planning timeline for your new product commercialization I think my understanding is about a year or so so I imagine you have some visibility into 2016.
So I’m just wondering if you could comment on kind of pipeline for Bemis and how you might think it will roll through.
Yeah.
This is Bill Debbie.
Our product innovation pipeline is actually greater than a year.
We start to develop things and show them to customers and roll them out to customers well in advance of a year because some of these things have longer gestation periods particularly if you talk about healthcare pharmaceutical medical device packaging some of those have three to five-year gestation period so we’ve got a long pipeline if you will in several of our business segments particularly in the healthcare sector.
I’m just kind of trying to characterize maybe 2015 versus 2016.
I don’t have a feel for how many projects are coming on stream in the variance between 2015 and 2016.
I’m sorry.
Okay.
And another question is also maybe a little difficult to answer but if I kind of think back about Bemis and to be fair a number of plastic packaging companies over the years your customers don’t always seem to get the timing and the demand trajectory right which ultimately has a pretty significant impact on your business and I guess the things like take or pay really wouldn’t be an option for you but is there anything that you think Bemis could do better to kind of understand the customer and the timing and the risk reward associated with taking on these projects? Well yes and we put a process as we explained at Investor Day our stage-gate process that includes the customer.
And we talk with the customer we bring them into that process and they’re part of that gating that we go through.
So if we get to a point early on where the customer is not real warm and not real high on the project we’ll kill it then so we’re not expending resource on a project that isn’t going to go forward.
Our next question is from Anthony Pettinari with Citi.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on organic growth in Global Packaging.
I think you referenced some headwinds in Latin America.
And given that that’s half of the business I was wondering if it was possible to kind of further quantify the organic growth that you saw in LatAm versus the other three businesses in the segment.
Sure.
They basically offset Anthony.
Latin America was down 4% and the rest of global Asia healthcare and Europe was up 4%.
Okay.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And overall global packaging organic growth was up 6%? Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
And then at the Analyst Day last month you outlined your long-term targets and some of the ways that you’re going to operate the business really fundamentally differently.
And I was wondering on the financial side as Mike settles into the role is it possible you might take kind of a fundamental relook at your historical leverage targets Bemis’ historic emphasis on dividends over repurchases or how we should think about that side of – that side of the business and that side of the transformation.
This is Mike.
I can answer that.
You can expect us to take look at things differently.
I’ve spent a lot of time over last couple of months understanding why we are who we are great balance sheet definitely appreciate having a great balance sheet strong.
But I also understand as does Bill that we haven’t used it effectively.
And that is going to change going forward right at the moment.
We’re finalizing our acquisition kind of strategy process and I’d rather start looking there first before I look at other ways to lever up and my cash.
The next question is from Adam Josephson with KeyBanc.
Thanks for taking my follow-up Bill.
I appreciate it.
Just two of them one was the quarter about in line with your initial expectations given that FX and volume were bigger drags than you expected but that resin was a bigger benefit than you expected? Adam to put it quickly I think our team’s performed really well.
They performed slightly better than my expectations than what we had planned for Q1.
Thanks Bill.
And one on meat and cheese have there been any changes or are you anticipating any changes in meat and cheese prices based on bird flu et cetera that could be consequential for your business later in the year? I don’t necessarily see the bird flu as a big consequence to us.
We have a smaller position if you will in turkey.
So I don’t see that as a big drag.
If protein prices do come down which people indicate they might that could be a benefit for us.
But at this point I couldn’t say.
And we have a follow-up question from Mark Wilde with Bank of Montreal.
Yeah.
I just wanted to come back on the rollout of the new products.
I think some of those rollouts were due down in Brazil and I’m just curious what you have said about Brazil and Latin America.
Was there any change in the timing on those? No Mark.
We’re still very confident and we saw very good new product traction in Latin America particularly as we talked about that sophistication level.
And if you recall the Peel Reseal package for Sadia that is now being picked up by the other protein companies down in Latin America.
So we’re seeing nice pickup there.
We’ve got nice pickup in a new pharma cold-form foil product for pharmaceutical companies down there.
We’ve got new product in foil lidding that’s out into Brazil this quarter Q2.
Greek yogurt is now being rolled out into the Brazilian market so we’re picking up Greek yogurt cups in Brazil.
So we’re seeing some nice rollouts in Brazil.
Okay.
And Bill the other question I have can you just help us think about the sort of the phase-in from this big new healthcare and medical device facility in Oshkosh? It sounds like it’s not going to come on line until some point in the second half.
I don’t know whether you then have to go through any qualifications coming out of there.
You talked about a longer-than-normal timeline on new product for healthcare and medical.
So just help us think about sort of size and ramp-up of that facility if you could.
Yeah.
Our healthcare group is doing an outstanding job with the transition from Philly to Oshkosh.
Keep in mind we have to qualify the new – there’s a new coder going into Oshkosh and that coder then has to be qualified on all the existing product lines.
They’ve got a plan in place.
They’ve got customers on board.
They’re working through it very very well.
And the Philadelphia facility will close at the end of 2015.
We will be qualified on the new machine by the end of 2015.
So new product will be in the marketplace 2016 out of the healthcare facility in Oshkosh which as Mike said in his comments is the largest clean room converting facility for healthcare medical device packaging in North America.
We’re going to see nice improvements in profit in that business due to this facility.
It has a very nice return on invested capital and it drives productivity.
It drives higher quality which is what the healthcare industry wants from their suppliers.
And we’ll continue to lead healthcare with very high quality better service better margins all year round.
We’ll go next to Fred Searby with Dunbar.
Hi.
Yeah.
Thank you for taking the question.
A couple of quick questions.
So we’ve had a bit of a rally in the real and I’m just wondering first of all when you say that you’re using current FX I mean were you using more or less 3 is what you baked in where real is now? And then secondly Dixie Toga in Brazil you guys seemed to have gotten through some of the gusting headwinds we have there economically and is there any signs of a turn sort of second derivative with volumes maybe in April starting to bottom out a little bit and a deceleration and the downturn? And then finally cash flow was for the first quarter at least seasonally exceptional and yet you seem to be maintaining your guidance of I think it translates to $200 million to $250 million in free cash flow.
I’m just trying whether you’re being conservative because it caught me at least by surprise how strong your free cash flow was some of that was maybe something is a one-off with resins but can you just help me think about whether you’re being conservative or there’s some upside here on the free cash flow side? This is Bill Austen.
I’ll take the real question.
Our original plan is 260 and for current forecast that we’ve gone forward with the remainder of the year is BRL 3 to the dollar.
That’s how we’re looking at the rest of 2015.
And I can’t say that it’s bottomed out.
I can’t say the economy is bottomed out.
I have no indications to whether that’s true or not but we are conservatively looking at the rest of the year on how we’re going to drive the business in Brazil.
Team is doing a great job we’re focused on cost focused on driving new products out into the market but we’re using BRL 3 to the dollar.
And I’ll comment on cash flow.
As I mentioned earlier we did play out a stated goal that we’re going to try to upgrade this company 14% to 16% primary working capital as a percentage of revenue.
Comment on my conservative on my 2015 guidance I don’t think I’m conservative.
I think some of our initiatives that we put in place to improve payable terms and to lower inventories just going to take some time.
And Chris a general comment our Q1 performance on free cash flow was very much in line with our internal plan and expectation.
So we’re right on track to getting to that $400 million plus.
And then finally just a question obviously – I’d be remised if what’s happened with Kraft and Heinz.
I mean are you thinking that given that there’s ongoing consolidation in Europe your end users your main clients that that speeds up the impetus or just going to catalyze some consolidation.
There’s been talk amongst you guys and it – you feel more of a pressure obviously get bigger and offset some of that.
We’ve seen consolidation in this industry for our customers that is.
We’ve seen consolidation amongst our customers over the years.
We’ve dealt with this before.
We’ll continue to deal with going forward with the introduction of newer technologies higher sophistication levels of packaging bringing what we add to the party to those larger customers to get a bigger share of their wallet.
So we’re not – we’ll manage through it like we always have in the past and we’ll continue to bring innovation and technology to those larger CPG companies.
And we have a follow-up from George Staphos with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Just a question in terms of Oshkosh and Philly.
Recognizing you fully intend to be able to be able to flip the switch by the end of the year if you were in our seats what one-mile or two-mile markers over the next two quarters to three quarters would you be checking on to make sure that actually will happen without any issue? George this is Bill.
Hey Bill.
Mike and I would meet with the healthcare team twice a month to review their project plan.
Are they on track? Are they not on track? If they are not on track what are they doing? They’re hitting all their milestones.
The next milestone is going to be that coater getting installed and coming up on time and on technology.
So that’s the next milestone.
They’re well on their way to hit that.
They’ve met all their milestones thus far.
So really confident with how it’s going.
And we’ll report out where we are at the next earnings call.
Just related point to that Bill when does the core go in to place that you say.
And then the second question I had more broadly are there any end markets where you’re seeing a significant shift either to multiple layer extrusion from coat and laminated or vice versa.
And if so what are kind of the implications behind that? Thanks and good luck on the quarter.
Thanks George.
The first part of that question on the healthcare [indiscernible] it’s there now being uncreated and installed and being bolted down to the foundations.
So it’s well on its way.
The other piece are what are we seeing.
We’re seeing nice movements in liquid and to co-extrusions.
We’re seeing – we have technologies in other areas of retort and others where we would look to use co-extrusions.
So we’re pushing on those things.
Our technology guys are pushing on those things and you’re going to see more of that in the future.
And there’s a follow-up from Chris Manuel with Wells Fargo.
Good morning again.
Just kind of two quick ones here one to kind of come back to the Kraft Heinz sort of stuff going on.
When Kraft split into the two pieces there was quite a bit of disruption that took place and we’ve already kind of couple examples through the channels sort of some projects being delayed and stuffs being looked at in particular within Oscar Mayer or some of alerting and to be prepared for disruption.
Have you seen any projects thus far that have been either delayed or have you seen any signs of potential disruption or how do you think about what that might do to your volumes in the near term until everything’s kind of settle? Yeah but Chris right now I haven’t seen any delays in any of the projects that our teams are working on.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then second follow-up as you talked about volumes in April already picking back up I know there’s an element of seasonality there.
But as you sit today you’re already seeing volumes back to what you had anticipated a couple of points for the year or are we still kind of in a flattish mode or how would we – maybe if you can give a perspective of what you were [indiscernible] sort of pick up? Yes Chris.
My comment was that second and third quarter are seasonally high quarters for us and our order rate maintains that seasonally high level.
So we’re seeing our normally high second third quarter order rates or shipments picking up now.
Okay.
So you’re seeing seasonality but not necessarily a pickup or acceleration to a couple points yet? I don’t think we want to comment on that at this point.
We’re at our expectation.
And we’ll take a follow-up from Al Kabili with Macquarie Capital.
Hi.
Thanks.
Bill just on the last quarter you had some of those operational disruptions from the new products and I was wondering if you still are seeing any spillover of that in the first quarter that gets sequentially better as we look at 2Q.
Are you feeling good on operationally throughout 1Q in that regard? Thanks.
Yes Al.
The specific comment was related to the third quarter 2014 issue we had with the commercialization of a new high technology product.
Teams have been working through that to bring it back to where the anticipated levels of waste and throughput would be and we expect to be fully at our recovered rate at our planned rate by the end of third quarter of 2015 and we saw improvement in Q1.
We’ll see more improvement in that in Q2 and we’ll be back on track with plan in Q3.
Okay.
And this is a follow-on to that.
Any sense for size of headwind? Is it a couple million dollars in extra costs in Q1 or either you or Mike in terms of just helping us size that up so that when we’re at that full operational level in 3Q the sort of uptick we get there? Thanks.
Yeah.
Those improvement has been built into our forecast and if you recall back in the third quarter of 2014 it was a 50-basis-point issue that we had.
We’ve worked ourselves about halfway through it at this point.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thank you all for joining us today.
This concludes our conference call.
This concludes today’s call.
Thank you for your participation.