Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the bases of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Our fourth quarter financial results reflect a superior performance of our new stores and a dominant omni-channel model that continues to improve.
While we're pleased with the performance we saw in various areas of our business for the quarter we encountered several factors that kept us from meeting our expectations.
Primarily the sharp decline in ammunition sales as compared to the surge we experienced in the year-ago quarter was more significant than we planned.
The fourth quarter represents the first of 3 quarters in which we will lap the surge in firearms and ammunition we realized a year ago.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales decreased 10.1%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to the significant decline in firearms and ammunition sales.
Comp store sales excluding firearms and ammunition were down 3.5%.
As expected with the slowdown in firearms and ammunition we saw other product categories improve.
During the quarter we saw positive comp store sales in hunting apparel footwear men's casual apparel and non-shooting hunting equipment.
Going forward we expect sales to shift out of firearms and ammunition and into our other higher-margin categories.
20 of our new format stores were opened for the full quarter and outperformed our legacy store base by more than 50% in sales per square foot and more than 60% in profit per square foot.
During the quarter we opened new stores in Waco Texas and Kalispell Montana both of which are performing very well.
Each new store we opened continues to perform significantly better than our legacy stores reinforcing our retail growth strategy.
During the quarter we had 2 new stores enter the comp base bringing the total to 10 new stores in the comp base at the end of the year.
As these new stores enter the comp base they continue to outperform.
For the quarter comp store sales for the 10 new stores in the comp base were 200 basis points better than the consolidated comp.
These new stores give us great confidence about the cadence of store openings we've announced for 2014 and for 2015.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin increased to 36.6% from 36.2% in the year-ago quarter.
This improvement was led by favorable merchandise mix as a result of the steep decline in firearms and ammunition sales.
We also saw improvement in softgoods margins which were partially offset by small margin declines in our hunting and general outdoors categories.
Continued shift of wallet share out of firearms and ammunition and into categories with deeper Cabela's branded penetration and higher margins are expected to provide modest margin improvement throughout 2014.
During the quarter we were able to improve the penetration of Cabela's branded products in all 3 of our major merchandise categories.
Specifically for the quarter Cabela's branded product as a percent of total merchandise sales increased from 28% to 33%.
The positive response we've received from our customers related to the introduction of new Cabela's branded products has been extremely encouraging.
The innovation and quality of our new Cabela's branded products will continue to have a meaningful impact on the growth of our company.
For the quarter Direct revenue decreased 4.1% which was better than our expectations.
Direct revenue was impacted by a significant deceleration in ammunition sales which was partially offset by record traffic to our cabelas.com website and higher conversion rates.
During the quarter we rolled out our enhanced mobile platform providing a more enjoyable experience for our Direct customers who prefer to shop using a mobile device.
During the quarter we continue to realize benefits of our omni-channel fulfillment program which we began implementing in the third quarter.
The benefits we've seen from our ability to fulfill customer direct orders with inventory from our retail channel are very encouraging.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased approximately 23% to $102.7 million excluding the Visa settlement adjustment in the prior period.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
This represents the first quarter of Financial Services revenue in excess of $100 million in the history of our company.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.76% in the quarter.
Return on invested capital improved by 30 basis points to 16.2% for 2013.
With a strong belief in continuous improvement we feel that the ability to grow return on invested capital is a meaningful indicator of the future performance of our company.
The primary driver of improvements to return on capital will be the strong performance of our new more profitable new retail stores.
Before turning to guidance with the difficult comparisons we face in the first half of the year we believe it is important to provide additional intra-quarter and more specific category performance to help investors better understand business trends.
Following this unprecedented period we intend to revert back to previous guidance disclosure.
Based on our fourth quarter and year-to-date results the surge in firearms and ammunition is clearly winding down.
Recall in the fourth quarter of 2012 comp store sales were up 12%.
Although comp store sales declined 10.1% in the quarter due primarily to firearms and ammunition each being down roughly 25% to 30% we did generate positive comps in hunting apparel footwear casual men's apparel and non-shooting hunting equipment.
So far through the first 6 weeks of 2014 comp store sales are down 25% to 30% as compared to being up 35% to 40% for the same 6-week period a year ago.
And through the first 6 weeks of 2014 firearms and ammunition are down roughly 50% on a comp basis.
Accordingly we expect first quarter comp store sales to be down roughly 20% on the heels of significant declines in firearms and ammunition sales.
Despite the 50% comp decline in firearms and ammo to date as customers shift wallet share to other categories we expect most softgoods categories and some hardgoods categories to comp positively for the quarter.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
We believe that our operational improvements combined with new store performance will continue to deliver outstanding returns to shareholders.
At the same time in the next 2 quarters we expect moderation in both comp store sales and in the Direct business due to the stronger-than-expected falloff from last year's firearms and ammunition surge.
We expect first quarter 2014 earnings per share to be between $0.32 and $0.42 and full year 2014 earnings per share to increase at a high single-digit or low double-digit rate versus 2013 adjusted earnings per share of $3.32.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong growth in Financial Services revenue exceptional performance from our new stores improved merchandise margin and outstanding performance of Cabela's branded products all of which led to further increases in return on capital.
We opened 2 new stores during the quarter and as Tommy mentioned have been very pleased with their performance.
Looking forward to 2014 we plan to open stores in: Augusta Georgia; Greenville South Carolina; and Anchorage Alaska in the first quarter.
For the second quarter we plan to open stores in: Christiana Delaware; Woodbury Minnesota; Edmonton Alberta; Missoula Montana and Lavon Texas.
In the third quarter we plan to open stores in Barrie Ontario; Acworth Georgia; Cheektowaga New York; Tualatin Oregon; Nanaimo British Columbia and Bowling Green Kentucky which will replace the opening of our Bristol Virginia store which has been postponed to 2015.
These 14 stores represent approximately 1 million new square feet of retail space or 17% square footage growth in 2014.
Today we announced plans to open 3 domestic new stores for 2015.
These include location in: Ammon Idaho near Idaho Falls; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia near Chattanooga Tennessee; and Short Pump Virginia northwest of Richmond.
This brings the total to 9 announced stores scheduled to open in 2015.
We're continuing to evaluate new sites for 2015 and even 2016 and expect to announce additional locations in the future.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased approximately 23% to $102.7 million excluding the Visa settlement adjustment in the prior period.
The increase in Financial Services revenue is primarily due to an 8.6% increase in average active accounts.
This account growth helped drive higher interest in fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.1%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 15 basis points from a year-ago quarter and were just 1.76%.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.69% as compared to 0.72% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.42% as compared to 0.46% a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.22% as compared to 0.24% a year ago.
For the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $4.1 million compared to $250 000 reduction in the year-ago quarter.
This reduction was mostly a result of declining loan balances as well as improvements in charge-offs and recoveries of restructuring credit card loans.
For the quarter Financial Services interest expense increased 23.7% to $17 million as compared to $13.7 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As discussed in our third quarter call the increase in interest expense is mostly due to our efforts to lengthen our maturities and lock in historically low fixed rates.
We expect to complete our next term securitization in either late Q1 or early Q2 2014.
During the quarter we recognized an impairment loss of $4.9 million as a result of a reduction in deferred grants related to one of our retail stores.
Additionally we reserved $9.3 million for potential adjustments to provision for income taxes that may result from audits currently in progress.
We've also recognized $3.6 million of interest expense related to these matters.
For 2014 we expect effective tax rate to be due -- be between 33% and 34%.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 16.7% or $19.3 million year-over-year to $645 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 15% with 10 new stores opening since Q4 2012.
Inventory turns for both 2013 and 2012 were 3.1x.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we prepare to transition into our spring assortment over the upcoming months.
For the year cash flow from operations was $345 million compared to $235 million in the same period a year ago.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $300 million and $350 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2014 to fund future growth and we may renegotiate our existing credit agreement later this year to increase capacity and extend the maturity.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
Despite the near-term challenging comparisons from the surge in firearms and ammunition we experienced a year ago we continue to be very pleased with our new store productivity meaningful improvements on our omni-channel model and exceptional performance of Cabela's branded products.
As a result we're very excited about our future growth opportunities.
As we close another record year for Cabela's I'd like to take a moment to thank all of our outfitters for their passion and commitment to cherish and delight every customer every day.
With that operator let's open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy from my standpoint I mean the retail business if you stripped out the tough compares and everything I mean you're really executing well there.
So I'm going to focus my couple of questions on the Direct and the -- just the brand side.
Your Direct I thought was actually a bright spot.
Obviously you'd rather be up than down.
But -- so my question is as you look at that you've taken some steps in that business the last several quarters do you feel like that is reflected in better-than-expected results? Or do you think there was an element that happened late in the fourth quarter where people basically were not wanting to go outside and so rather than go to your store maybe they shop a little more online? Curious to hear your thoughts.
Well as we've talked Reed for several quarters probably going back almost a year we've made some significant investments in technology in our Direct business.
And it started with this realization over a year ago that we had to have mobile device interfaces for our customers that were on par with desktop functionality.
So we made those investments and we saw an enormous shift in traffic to mobile devices.
I can't even imagine where a company would be us or anyone else if they did not have that robust user experience on mobile devices.
And look it was expensive and we did it.
And it made a really big difference in our business because we captured that traffic and were able to provide a great experience on mobile devices.
Additionally as we've talked we added the functionality of store-to-door capability.
We did that flawlessly without spending a lot of money.
And it made a difference in our business in the quarter and I think it will continue to.
If not just -- we didn't tell people no when we had inventory.
And we're probably not going to disclose the impact of that on Direct revenue for competitive reasons.
But I would tell you it was real.
It was important.
So I think we were really pleased notwithstanding the big downdraft as ammo fell off far sharper than we expected and of course the impact in Direct is significant.
But I think we were really pleased because we demonstrated to ourselves that we can launch and sell Cabela's and national branded softgoods and other products on cabelas.com.
And that was encouraging to us.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up Tommy.
On the mobile side are you actually -- is it -- are you seeing the transaction be actually completed a lot on mobile beyond what you thought or is it more just having that aspect involved in the activity? No it's the transaction Reed.
And as we look -- and we'll keep you guys updated as we dig through '14.
But we've got a couple of things coming.
Personalization is a really big deal on mobile devices.
We've got that yet to come later this year and also 2-click checkout which just makes it even easier and that's coming later in the year.
So a little more to come.
But what we've done made a big difference as consumers are moving off their desktops and on to mobile devices to transact.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
I have one more question then.
And that is you talked about and referenced in the press release the penetration of the Cabela's brands from call it 28% to 33%.
When you look at that obviously it definitely reflects what you've done and kind of taking the -- you've elevated the status of the merchandise or you brought up -- you have a lot of innovation to product price points have gone up.
Is that kind of 500-basis-point move is that reflective more of what's happening with ASPs on the Cabela's side or is it just overall kind of a more holistic growth for your Cabela's brand across-the-board? No it's more holistic.
And it's not a function of just putting our brand on lots of other products.
It was -- and you can look at it by category and subcategory.
Customers really liked Zonz camo ColorPhase technology OutfitHer BOA boots our Meindl Cabela's program.
They just reacted to the product.
And you shop our stores.
I know you just see better merchandise in there.
And I'd be remiss if I didn't call out as well our strategic national branded partners and they know who they are.
They continue to help us drive success not just in Cabela's branded products but improved assortments from these strategic national branded products and it's making a big difference in our business.
Our next question comes from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First a question on the ammo being weaker in the quarter.
I think in the past you discussed that business potentially holding up in 2014.
And just trying to understand at what point did that business turned negative in the quarter? And any more color on what changed there? And I guess related to that what's the supply situation like? Is that a factor at all? Yes this is Ralph Castner.
I mean ammo did fall off in the quarter more than what we thought.
But I would tell you we're still pretty optimistic in camo.
If you are -- I'm sorry ammo.
If you look at the 2-year comp at ammo even so far -- whether you look in the fourth quarter of last year or so far in the first 6 weeks of this year it's up pretty significantly double digits on a 2-year basis in the fourth quarter of last year and it's up high single digits in the first quarter of this year on a 2-year basis.
So we -- and that's despite the 2-year trend on guns being flat to down.
So we're pretty optimistic that ammo is going to have a water tail.
I just think it was so hot in Q4 and particularly in Q4 last year and to some extent in Q1 of this year that it fell off more than we thought.
But we're still really optimistic about ammo as we move through 2014.
And with respect to supply there have been -- in certain rimfire categories there have been some supply constraints.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just in general in light of the uncertainty this year I guess what gives you confidence in the earnings growth that you're projecting? I mean can you walk us through some of the things that you feel like are a little bit more within your control that you're working on to kind of help get to that earnings growth that you're projecting? Maybe any specific levers you can pull on the expense side some of the margin drivers that you briefly touched on earlier? Well Seth I think as we commented in the last call we started working on expense frugality starting in August of next year.
And that's an ongoing continuous process that we believe we've reflected in our guidance.
I think what gives us great confidence I've seen our spring and fall assortments for this year.
They're really really good.
And at the end of the day we often forget we're in the merchandise selling business.
So I think the wallet share shift to a more profitable product categories both Cabela's branded and our strategic branded partners gives us confidence.
New stores I mean we just keep opening one new store after another and they're performing at very high levels.
And then you look at the Direct business and we just continue to make operational improvements there.
We're getting better at omni-channel marketing and now with omni-channel fulfillment as a capability you kind of add all those things up.
And look we'll see where guns and ammo end up.
The first 2 quarters will be challenging but we ought to return to more normal trends later this year.
So I think we tried to put our guidance in those terms of positives yet the downdraft of guns and ammo.
Seth let me add a couple of things just to Tommy's comments.
First of all one thing that's really lost on people is our card business is still growing at 13%.
That's a great business with -- that's going to continue to add profitability.
We did roll out net SKU profitability this year which we think is going to help us manage some of the expenses that Tommy talked about.
And just one thing that's really lost on people.
Our preopening cost this year went from $12 million to $22 million in '13.
Now obviously they're going to keep going up from there as we open more stores in '14 but it shouldn't be at nearly the rate that we saw last year.
All of which is going to help us continue to get to those earning targets that we've put out there.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And to follow up on the expenses.
So I think last year and in '13 you also saw some big increases in labor cost both at the store level and maybe corporate and then I think marketing was also higher.
I mean are there specific buckets within there that can be trimmed to help manage that? Yes Seth.
We're continuing to look all across the company to find all sorts of areas for expense cuts.
And I can give you a bunch of individual examples but it's just a lot of hard work that we're finding it $1 million at a time.
And the whole organization's working on it and it's amazing some of the suggestions that some of our outfitters have given us for opportunities going forward.
Our next question comes from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about the non-gun ammo part of the business.
Last quarter you talked about non-gun comps being up 5.3%.
This quarter non-gun ammo comps were down 3.5%.
I'm curious how we should think about that.
And is that losing the attachment to the firearm sales or is it something else that the environment sort of...
Well Rick I think it's probably a couple of things.
The holiday season environment I think we encountered probably a macro softer holiday season by a little bit.
But don't forget we started lapping the surge in early November which lapped election day a year ago when all these kind of started and then it accelerated through mid-December.
I think what encouraged us a little bit when we looked at new to file customers while they -- we weren't adding new to file customers at the same pace we did in the first quarter for obvious reasons just the volume of traffic coming into our website and our stores we continue to have healthy increases in Q4.
And those customers behaved pretty similarly in their baskets and attachment rates as they have been performing.
So I think the down 3.5% comp was just probably purely a function across our enterprise of a little less traffic coming into the stores and a slightly tougher holiday season as it compressed from 5 weeks to 4.
Just -- I've taken a thousand questions in the last 12 months about the impact of product categories and traffic and all that kind of stuff.
And I think we try to make it really clear in the release.
I think there's enough data out there to really show how people behaving in the fourth quarter when guns and ammo were down mid-20% kind of range.
We saw almost every single clothing category comp up.
The only other category that comped down anywhere near double digits was optics which does make some sense because of the high attachment rate between optics and guns.
But no other category comped down more than double digits.
Some of the hardgoods categories did comp down although hunting equipment outside of firearms and ammunition comped up which we're encouraged about.
As we look forward to the first quarter and as we've talked about we -- it's really sort of more of the same thing where we expect most of the softgoods categories to comp up for the quarter as well as some of the hardgoods categories.
Those things like guns firearms optics and to some extent ammunition are going to be tough but the rest of the categories are hanging in there pretty well about like we expected where we'd see a shift out of firearms and ammunition into some of these categories.
And we're pretty pleased about it.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the first quarter Ralph carryouts with a negative 20 comp.
You're seeing pretty big deleverage that would appear on SG&amp;A.
If you could comment there.
Well I think there's no question we are -- obviously as we're thinking about making profit targets for 2014 we're putting in a lot -- we're identifying expenses throughout the entirety of the year.
So yes I would expect to deleverage in the first quarter.
And we're putting in a lot of cost-savings initiatives which when we -- which we will benefit from over the entirety of 2014.
And we think we've reflected that Rick in our guidance.
Hence the reason to give clarity for Q1 more specifically than we've ever done.
Rick back to the store performance or the kind of category performance commentation my takeaway from all of that is this which is really over the last 2 -- or if you look -- and the same applies by the way if you look at the first quarter of '14 or the fourth quarter of '13 but our comp store sales were basically at the same level they were 2 years ago which in the case of the first quarter of '14 when guns are off 50%.
So I think we feel reasonably good about that.
Would we like them to be up on a 2-year basis? Absolutely.
But the fact that we're comping near flat on a 2-year basis depends -- actually we're -- I think we're up a little bit in the fourth quarter down a little bit in the first.
But the fact that we're flat on a 2-year basis with the kind of change we've seen in firearms and ammunition we think is pretty encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Also interested on what's happening in the margins with guns and ammos as demand has been impacted.
Have you seen pressures there? Yes a little bit of pressure Rick and probably not -- to no surprise as the products are coming back into availability and we're able to start promoting guns and ammunition again.
And if you remember a year ago we didn't have enough supply to even run ads or have catalogs or omni-channel events that included guns which naturally lifts margin.
So we have seen some compression yet as we balance it with the shift to higher-margin products.
That's why I said in the formal script we still expect margin rate increase when you mix it all out.
I will give you a brief anecdote.
We advertised guns and ammunition beginning last Thursday for a 5-day ad period.
And we're pleasantly surprised at the customer response from a revenue standpoint albeit at lower -- a little lower margins.
But it did give us confidence that if we can start our promotional cadence again as we get through this bubble we'll have a healthy gun and ammunition business that in the back half of the year should eke out comps.
Research Division</strong> And May is when the compares start to normalize in your view? Yes.
Our next question comes from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to follow up on the comps.
Can you -- is there a way to -- I would assume that the mix away from guns puts a lot of pressure on ticket.
Do you have any sense for -- can you give us a sense for what you saw with store traffic versus ticket in the fourth quarter and maybe into Q1? Well in the fourth quarter transactions -- we don't measure total traffic coming in.
But transactions were down 5% and ticket was down 5% to no surprise with -- we're not selling $1 000 modern sporting rifles and baskets full of ammunition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then obviously there's been a lot of not-so-great weather.
Can you comment on whether there were any transitory issues that may have impacted the fourth quarter or even into the first quarter as well? Well -- I mean it was really cold in a lot of places in the fourth quarter but if you look at it from a number of days stores were opened or closed there was no difference year-over-year '13 to '12.
Now could one make an argument that it was so cold in the upper Midwest people didn't come and shop? We're not going to make that argument.
In fact cold weather helped to sell nice garments that we make healthy margins on.
So we would call weather more of a neutral.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the implied comp trend in the second half I don't know if that quarter is perfectly linear but it seems like you think that we're going to be down maybe 5% or 10% in the second half of the quarter we're in.
What are you thinking on a 2-year trend as we get into the back half of this quarter? I guess I don't know that I'd given it that much thought intra-quarter.
I mean what we're seeing on 2-year trend is pretty flat.
And we've really seen that but we saw it -- if you look at the fourth quarter in the entirety that's true.
If you look at the first 6 weeks of this quarter it's true.
So I guess I would expect on a 2-year basis it'll stay flat.
But we have noticed -- and Tommy alluded to it with the increased promotional cadence the last week or so we've noticed a pretty significant change in the absolute performance of our business.
For the better.
For the better.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and just lastly and I think it relates to that comment.
You're -- you ended the quarter with inventory up pretty significantly year-over-year.
What's the potential impact of that to gross margins in the first half or maybe there's some other issues around inventory that explain that? There aren't any Matt.
I tell you of all the things we feel fantastic about is the quality of our inventory.
We're going to exit winter goods cleaner than we've ever done.
And remember we're opening 10 stores in '14 that we bought inventory for and we've got some really big stores coming in the first 4 or 5 months of the year.
So you shouldn't be alarmed by inventory growth.
We -- the quality of our inventory is absolutely fantastic.
Our next question comes from David Magee from SunTrust Robinson Harwood -- Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 questions.
One the -- with regard to your assumptions regarding the trajectory of firearm demand this year do you anticipate that to have any sort of impact on new store performance? Maybe let us know of any differences in the mix with new stores versus say legacy stores with firearms.
No.
To give some comfort in that you've got to -- at least relative to the expectations we built in these stores that were opened in 2014 were probably done based upon mix that we saw in 2011 or 2012 when we're out scouting those stores.
So I don't -- we don't expect that to have a significant impact on new store performance at least relative to our original expectations.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Secondly do you anticipate significant incremental cost this year being encouraged? Just surrounding issues around credit card security those type of things.
No David we don't.
A couple of facts for you.
As -- we have routine maintenance programs that replace card readers as they obsolete themselves across the whole enterprise in the U.S.
and Canada.
So for a couple of years we've been replacing readers and we'll continue to do that as we move forward.
Our new stores obviously have new readers.
Canada's already converted.
So we don't have anything out of the ordinary at the point of sale.
As we march to the potential of cards with chips in them in 2015 there could be a couple of million dollars of impact in '15.
But that would assume a big bang everybody gets a new card and likely that's not going to happen.
It'll be -- there'll be a phase in.
They'll stagger it.
So no real impact from that.
And obviously like any other retailer on the planet we have redoubled re-tripled and re-quadrupled our focus on enterprise-wide security not just at POS.
But like everyone we had hack attempts every day in non-POS systems.
So we think we can manage that within the guidance range that we've given.
But obviously we've refocused.
We feel good about where we are but we're redoubling and re-tripling our focus.
Our next question comes from Jim Duffy from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question why did you guys not prerelease these results in the guidance? We gave some thought to that.
But particularly given some of those tax things we're working on late in the quarter we just want to make sure we felt really comfortable with that.
And we didn't have a history of prereleasing so we've made the decision not to do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Ralph with respect to the change in view for '14 from double digit off a higher number to a high single digits to low double-digit EPS you've got a slightly higher tax rate range in there.
Can you quantify some of the other factors that changed with respect to your outlook? It sounds like some of the changing ammo trends are one.
Maybe if you could list off -- put some shape around the dollar amount associated with that and some of the other factors as well? Well I think you mainly have got them.
I mean the tax rate was a factor.
Clearly the fourth quarter results were a factor.
And what we saw in ammo particularly as we left Q4 and going into Q1 were some of the primary factors that influence our decision-making on that.
Jim I think we wanted to just be more cautious until we see where ammo ultimately settles.
And we were making those decisions in the last 3 weeks or so and just probably an air of conservatism more than anything.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then...
And I say -- Jim I say that because we still -- we couldn't be more excited about the next 3 to 5 years in our company.
I mean we've got -- the stores that we're opening in '14 are -- I think are going to be blockbuster stores in places we should've been a long time ago.
And as I said to Reed earlier we couldn't feel better about our product innovation pipeline.
And as we start doing more in hardgoods with real high-quality Cabela's branded products we just feel really good about the business.
We just got to get through these 3 quarters where the surge was just kind of out of control last year.
Jim you also -- you asked me about preopening -- or preannouncing.
I think another factor in it is we want to make sure that we -- there's a lot -- we think there's a lot to tell about our performance both in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
We want to make sure we had a forum like this for an open discussion to talk about it.
The comments I made earlier about mix of product categories I think are an important part of the story as we move forward.
And you see that those categories are continuing to perform really well even when firearms are off.
And being able to explain the entirety of the story was another big factor.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
I'm going to dig into the next-gen stores a little bit.
You mentioned in the press release 11 of them doing in excess $500 a square foot.
I'm sure you've done this analysis.
What does your next-gen sales per square foot look like if you kind of scrape off to get to a normalize rate of gun and ammo demand? How much is it to give back from that excess of $500 a square foot? Well there's some.
And I guess I'd tell you -- I don't know.
You got to remember the $500 a square foot included the fourth quarter which already gave back a fair amount of gun and ammo.
I would tell you in totality maybe there's another 5%.
But I mean we still feel really good.
Obviously doing $500 a foot plus is really good and that's the average of all of them.
Some of them are doing much better than that.
Jim as it relates to new stores you'll notice the store in just south of Chattanooga in Fort Oglethorpe Georgia is a 70 000-square-foot store which kind of fits in a size range between the 40 000-foot stores and the 80s.
And it's a -- it'll be the first prototype that we do at that size in North -- in the United States.
And as we continue to look at market opportunities we've seen a fair amount of stores that are -- markets that are too small for an 80 000 and too big for a 40 000-foot store.
So we're excited to see how this prototype's going to roll out.
The façade of the building will look a lot more like our 80 000- and 100 000-foot next gen.
So it'll have this big gable roof and a lot of windows.
And you should expect to see that come into the mix.
And it looks like we're settling in on 40s 60s 70s and 80s with a few hundreds sprinkled in over the next 3 to 5 years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One final question and I'll let someone else jump in.
I'm curious the ammo trend differences that you saw between the Direct and retail was it pretty much a parallel trend where it fell off at exactly the same time or would one kind of outperform the other? What I'm trying to get at Ralph is how much of it was store traffic versus just kind of directly correlated to everybody having enough ammo.
Well I'm not sure I'm going to be that helpful in that in trying to get into your question.
And the reason was is because a year ago the results were very different.
I mean ammo was -- I'll try to directionalize this a little bit for you.
Ammo was up in comp store sales but it was up call it double for lack of a better word.
But in the Direct business it was up by several multiples.
And to -- so to try to kind of...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is on fourth quarter '12 right? No I'm sorry.
I'm talking about first quarter of '13.
But in first quarter of '13 ammo was just way -- here's the takeaway without quantifying.
Ammo was just way way stronger in Direct a year ago whether you're talking about the fourth quarter -- the fourth quarter or the first quarter in the year-ago quarter ammo was way stronger in Direct than it was in retail.
So obviously the magnitude of the falloff wasn't as great.
And that's just a function of we only have 50 -- a 50-store footprint in a big country.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And by the way -- I'm sorry but to add on to that.
And then when the -- but when you couldn't find it in any store a year ago in the country ours or anybody else's everybody came online to buy it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
You'll expect a sharper falloff in the Direct business.
Just to...
Absolutely right and we're seeing it.
Our next question comes from Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi and Hardt.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the color and the quarter-to-date trends.
I was wondering if you could just answer one last question on that.
What were firearms and ammo comping up in the first 6 weeks of last year? In the first 6 weeks of last year and again I'm giving you -- they were near 100%.
So call it double.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So we're down 50 against a near double.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're flat on 2 years.
And so it looks like the rest of the business x guns and ammo is also kind of flattish on a 2-year basis the first 6 weeks of the year.
Yes.
Yes.
And Jim remember the first 6 weeks of the year and the rest of the business is kind of clearance season and we haven't done fall rolls yet.
And we're kind of approaching the end of the winter season although not this year maybe for a lot of people on the call.
But January is a -- the first 6 weeks of January and the rest of the business are real seasonal low point in volume.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the preopening expenses will that be up on a year-over-year basis in first quarter? It looks like the store openings are more geared towards the first half of this year than they were last year.
Yes.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so then preopening expenses could be flat to down in the next 3 quarters? I mean yes.
To help quantify it I mean we spent last year $22 million on preopening costs.
And at least looking at the fourth quarter we spent $5 million in the fourth quarter.
So I think you could assume they were fairly even.
So I don't expect it to be a big driver in any one quarter.
I mean it'll maybe go from $5 million to $6 million in the first quarter.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it looks like you guys are losing little bit of market share just looking at the adjusted mix data.
Is that a function of you having better supply last year? Could you just talk a little bit about that? Yes.
I think we've said in a number of conferences we don't focus as much on the mix data as you guys do.
But I would suspect we had such better supply because we made some really big bets in the late summer of 2012 on supply of both ammunition and guns.
So we probably got a little more share from having supply until we ran out like everybody else.
But when I -- Jim when I think about share you got to think about -- we built 2 stores in Denver Colorado where we didn't have any share unless they drove to Grand Junction.
And the performance of those stores -- I mean we're taking share from somebody in that market in a big way.
It -- ditto for Grand Rapids and Columbus Ohio.
And I mean I could keep going on.
So that's why we don't pay that much attention to the core share numbers from mix.
We obviously looked at them.
But as we keep building stores we're just taking aggregate share in a pretty big way.
Our next question comes from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Ralph I guess this is a question for you and Tommy because it spans the Cabela's CLUB business.
It was up -- it did really well in the quarter.
And that suggests to me that consumers were using the card for their Christmas shopping at a number of venues yet it sounds like you got hit by some macro events within the stores apart from the guns and ammo trend falling off.
And I was wondering if you could sort of square that thought I have that suggest a little bit of inconsistency versus how the stores performed or merchandise performed versus your Finance subsidiary.
Well I'm not -- well let me comment on the growth in the card business.
And I just -- I think there's a bunch of different factors going on.
But in the card business what we saw is that accounts were up 8.6% on average -- which deaccelerated a little bit from the previous quarters of the year.
And we just saw that as a function of the traffic in the store being off to some extent.
The average balance was up 4.1% which actually has been an acceleration to your point of what we saw earlier.
And I think you know this but 97% of our spend is elsewhere.
So I think what we saw in our business was largely a function of what we saw in firearms and ammunition.
And then what you saw elsewhere is that our cardholders are out spending their -- spending money on our card and that business performed really well.
I'm not sure I'm trying to make too strong of a linkage to those 2.
No because that would be comparing us to gasoline purchases and restaurants and all kinds of unrelated things.
But to the question we got earlier on why we're optimistic about '13 the fact that that business is growing at 13% we're pretty encouraged about.
And by the way we'll - I don't know if it'll accelerate any but with opening 14 stores next year.
11 of them in the U.S.
because Canadian ones obviously don't count but we'll continue to see nice growth in that business.
That's helpful.
Just to make sure I enumerate what was the number of stores at year end? 50.
Spot on 50.
Okay good.
That's why I remember it.
Yes.
When you're talking about some of your efforts to merchandise the Cabela's brand products getting into hardgoods and offsetting some of the pressure in the firearms categories what new merchandise categories are you looking at if any? Well we -- the newest merchandise category we added was a whole line of Northern Flight waterfowl hardgoods decoys bags layout blinds all of those things that fall into hardgoods.
And the consumer reaction was just fantastic.
So you look at their -- you just go in one of our stores and there are just opportunities for us.
We did very well in game cameras with Cabela's branded products.
So just -- we're just going to thoughtfully by category expand.
One of our real successes from a social media standpoint was in our Regulator and Instigator bows which is clearly a hardgoods category.
And again customers love those products and bottom and we see further expansion opportunities in optics.
So we're just going to thoughtfully do just what we did in softgoods expand where we see opportunities.
And I think it's a long runway of opportunity if we do it right.
Our next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> You guys -- would you mind just giving us maybe an update on the Outpost stores? I know we've got a few of them out there.
Just how those are performing and updated thoughts on that particular prototype.
I would tell you they're performing about in line with our expectations.
On a per-square-foot basis they're not performing as well as some of our next-generation stores but way better than our legacy stores.
And I guess to give you some things about how we're thinking about it we feel really certain that we need a 40 000-square-foot format to go to a lot of smaller markets across the country.
And Tommy talked to you about our efforts around a 60 000- or 70 000-square-foot store.
The question we wrestle with is whether or not we need to differentiate that store from a marketing and operational standpoint.
And you'll even notice we were kind of getting away from talking about them as Outpost stores and just talking about the entire set of them as new stores.
So these smaller stores are going to continue to be very very important to us.
How we refer to them from a marketing and operations standpoint may change over time.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the -- in the release.
I think you said the next-gen stores are comping about 200 basis points ahead of the chain overall.
This -- I think that's down from the 600 basis points you had talked about earlier I think in -- at the end of Q2.
Is this just a reflection of the mix inside of the store or is there some of these stores maybe not coming on quite as strongly as some of the initial stores? No.
I'd tell you the biggest thing is -- and maybe we should just discuss the ones that are just there in the comp base.
But now we're getting a big set of those stores some of which are several years old so they're comping on top of themselves which has got one of the things that's going to drive the absolute rate down.
But we feel really good about the stores now that they're comping.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on the -- an update maybe on the cannibalization that you're potentially seeing or not seeing for that matter.
Anything that -- any updated thoughts there as you put in more stores? Are you bringing in cannibalization from any of the existing stores in the area? We continue to see less cannibalization than we ever expected in almost every location.
And Sean Denver is the great example.
I mean these 2 stores are 30 miles apart.
And both are just doing extremely well and both are exceeding our expectations by a wide margin.
And they're 30 miles away from each other.
So it's forcing Ralph and our real estate guys to think more about markets and maybe we're wrong about market capacity.
We're going to open Woodbury Minnesota in the Twin Cities.
It'll be our third store up there in May and that'll be an interesting indication of just what kind of capacity there are in markets.
But so far so good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess as -- the last question is on the Direct business.
It seems -- and I think I've asked this before is it does seems like you may have turned a corner in this business.
Are you guys willing to say that yet just given the performance that you had in the fourth quarter with obviously opening up a number of new stores which I think you've said $2 million to $3 million of cannibalization big drag from ammunition obviously year-over-year and yet you're only down about $15 million? It seems to be a real positive.
Well just as a matter of culture and in the spirit of continuous improvement declaring victory is never something we do in our company because you can always get better.
So with that as a preface I'll tell you that we feel very good about user experience improvements our ability to leverage social media our ability to have world-class content on cabelas.com and our ability to fill from stores.
So -- and our ability to launch new products on cabelas.com.
Now on the other side we've got cannibalization issues as we build new stores in places we haven't been before.
So none of the good things are purely incremental.
But we're on a path of continuous improvement.
And I think we're very pleased with where we are right now.
But you'll never hear us declare victory in any part of our business because that says there's no more to improve and we don't feel that way ever.
Our next question comes from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we all agree there's many many positive long-term drivers of stores and brand merchandising.
You guys are great operators.
I think one of the things we're trying to get at for your stock is that in 2014 the first quarter you're down 40% 50%.
If I'm understanding the guidance up 20% to 30% rest of the way in the year.
Now I don't know if I've seen that kind of a shift in 20 years and so there's some very exceptional circumstances.
But I think it'd be helpful just to maybe lay out what you see for comps for the full year? And then Ralph I know you talked a lot about some of the G&amp;A reductions.
Is there a way to kind of I guess aggregate that or dimensionalize what some of the savings can be just to give us more visibility on how that progresses through the year? Well I don't think we're prepared to discuss comps by quarter for the rest of the year as in obviously we expect them to get better.
But -- and even with regard to SG&amp;A there are just I mean hundreds -- I mean I can give you big ones and little ones.
There's hundreds of examples where people who've got teams of people working on taking cost out.
I mean one of the simple ones quite frankly is incentive comp which will almost certainly be down between 2013 and 2014 several million dollars.
We already talked about the increase in preopening costs which were up $10 million in '13 versus '12.
That'll continue to be up but not at the same level.
We've made a lot of improvements in just to kind of our corporate expenses and taking a lot of those out which continues to help.
We've actually hired a new person to help us manage credit card fees that's already found several million dollars of savings there on a full year basis.
Now we won't get those all in place until later in the year but we think there's a couple of million dollars there.
So we've just challenged our people across the whole company to continue to find those types of savings that anyone of them might only be $0.5 million to a $1 million or to a $1.5 million but you get 10 or 20 of them it's real money.
Research Division</strong> The comp for the year though is it -- I'm guessing you're kind of low single-digit decline for the year.
Is that roughly what's in your range? Yes.
I would tell you we -- 3 months ago we're probably thinking of a smaller number than that.
Down but not down mid-single digits.
That's probably moved -- as we've gone through the year that's probably come down just a little bit.
So maybe it get you to mid-single digits.
But I would tell you 3 or 4 months ago we're thinking about being down a low single-digit comp and we probably added maybe 100 or 200 basis points to that.
Because of ammunition.
Just because of ammunition as we've gotten into the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
Then on the 2-year comp being flattish and Tommy I think it's a fair point January is not the critical month in the year but -- I mean this is a business that we think of as clearly a growing business.
And so -- and you think there's any risk to that -- you've had this surge in traffic.
I mean that some of the consumer might've just upgraded the whole line of goods and equipment.
And is there a risk that we stay flattish on a 2-year basis for some time? Well I don't know about for some time.
It could certainly happen in the first 2 quarters.
But I think that's part of the reason I went through the whole discussion about how we're doing in an individual category.
Because I think there's some -- even in the fourth quarter the fact that our softgoods categories comped up or most of them did and we expect most of them to comp up in the first quarter I think it's really encouraging about the long-term trends in our business.
I mean where we're seeing the challenge from a comp perspective are those categories that are directly attached to the firearm primarily ammo and optics.
Mark even in the fourth quarter acquisition of new customers was up 12.5% which is a pretty big number.
So we're still attracting new customers to our franchise.
Research Division</strong> No.
You guys are the winner here.
But yes I'm just trying to understand.
This whole shift is very tough analytically.
Final question for me if you could give us a percent of sales of firearms and ammo just roughly where you ended for 2013.
Just -- it helps understand some of the shift going forward.
Yes.
In totality across Direct everything else it was about ammo was about 10%.
Firearms was slightly higher than that.
Yes.
It was 13% is the exact number so 10% in ammo 13% in firearms.
That's for full year.
Research Division</strong> All of 2013 great.
Yes.
Our next question comes from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Real quick just looking at the Direct business.
Top line was good.
But just looking at the operating margin in that business it seem to see some deceleration.
Can you discuss that a bit? Well I got to tell you -- and I'll talk a little bit about what we're going to do next year.
I don't spend as much time thinking about the profit as a percent of sales.
They're mainly because the Direct business probably gets over-allocated to advertising costs.
Any -- well basically any advertising cost except for radio local TV and newspaper flyers gets allocated to the Direct business.
One of the things we're looking at doing for next year is just allocating each channel a fixed percentage of revenue as advertising and creating a common pool because those lines on advertising are blurring greatly between channels.
So for example if we run something digitally even if you go to the Yahoo! Facebook page and it says visit whatever the Denver store that gets charged to the Direct business.
And those lines you just can't split them that way anymore.
So I wouldn't spend a lot of time thinking about the contribution to the Direct business in the fourth quarter.
As we move into next year when we start having a constant percent of sales get charge for advertising it'll be a lot more meaningful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
And then just talking about...
And by the way -- I'm sorry as it relates to the Direct business the single biggest expense item in the Direct business is advertising.
About all else it gets charges are call centers and some of our Internet expenses.
I'm sorry go ahead.
I'll let you ask the next question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just looking at competition and kind of some of your new stores and we've talked about your Woodbury store really coming right in the heart of kind of Gander Mountain country.
This new store in Idaho Falls you're right down the street from probably one of the better Sportsman Warehouse.
Is there anything that concerns you as you move more to Bass Pro and competition or do you guys feel you can go to head -- head-to-head really with anybody? Well we go head-to-head with all of these guys everywhere anyway.
Bass is a really good operator.
We square off with them in Phoenix Omaha Dallas Fort Worth.
Our store in Louisiana Denver and ditto for Sportsman's Warehouse multiple overlaps; ditto for Gander Mountain.
So no I think our success in the southeast Mark is going to hang on our ability to get assortments right especially fishing assortments right.
And needless to say our merchant teams and our virtual merchandising teams and our marketing teams have been doing extraordinarily deep dives in those markets to make really sure that our assortments are spot on in those southern markets.
We're taking extreme caution to make sure we're right.
Our next question comes from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> So last quarter you guys talked about improving your store labor productivity given that the gun business is so labor-intensive.
So now the demand for that has kind of more normalized have you been able to do that or can you just discuss whether you're able to get some of that in -- for the quarter? And what's your outlook for 2014? Yes that's still an opportunity for us.
And I tell you it's something we're continuing to work on.
We think there's an opportunity to some extent with store labor and it's something we're working on.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I just wondering as far as the softer demand for ammunition was that in anyway magnified by seasonality of the business given that the hunting season for the most part is in the third quarter traditionally? No I don't think so.
LLC</strong> No? Okay.
And as far...
It's just the extraordinary levels of the year ago.
I'd say if there's a seasonality component it's in Q1.
Because in Q1 where you've got our seasonally weakest time of the year yet the strongest demand for firearms and ammo which is why you're going to -- at least as we've talked about you're going to see a big headline number in the first quarter just because it was so big relative to the...
Disproportionately big.
Yes disproportionate to the seasonal performance of that store or that...
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then how should we think about the penetration levels for private label products? Certainly nice increase in the quarter that you discussed.
So going forward what -- where should we think about that metric going up to? Well I'm not going to give you a number but you should expect it to rise as we continue just this thoughtful expansion of our brand in balance with our great strategic branded partners.
And really -- I mean the best way to think about that and we'll -- we can give more color on this as we go throughout the year is thinking about it by a product category where -- by the way -- and particularly in softgoods we saw a big improvement with the Zonz camo stuff that a -- that's really [indiscernible] our customers.
So it's more important to look at it by a product category.
Because as we move forward with more retail stores that is a headwind because you start selling more firearms more ammunition doesn't -- which doesn't have as high of Cabela's branded product penetration.
It appears we have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all very much and we'll talk to you soon.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.