Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Inc.
First Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter financial results provide further evidence of exceptional new store performance validating that our growth strategy is working well.
Additionally the 3 new stores opened thus far in 2014 located in Augusta Georgia; Greenville South Carolina; and Anchorage Alaska marked our entrance into new and exciting markets where our customers have shown overwhelming support.
During the quarter we also saw an increase in the sales penetration of our Cabela's branded products specifically in softgoods as well as growth in our Cabela's CLUB Loyalty Program.
During the quarter we lapped the peak surge in firearms and ammunition sales from a year ago.
Our focus on tightly managing expenses throughout the quarter combined with the strong performance from our Cabela's CLUB program resulted in earnings per share within our guidance.
We will maintain our focus on operating expense management as we lap the remainder of the firearms and ammunition surge from a year ago.
As the prior year results continue to normalize we believe that the opportunities we took advantage of to improve our business over the past year will become increasingly evident.
At the end of the first quarter for the trailing 12-month period the 14 new stores that were open for the full period at sales per square foot of nearly $500 outperforming our legacy store base by approximately 46%.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores and it is important to note that the sales penetration of firearms and ammunition within each of our store formats is nearly identical.
These new stores give us great confidence about the cadence of store openings we've announced for 2014 and 2015.
For the quarter consolidated comp store sales decreased 21.7%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to the significant decline in firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
Comp store sales excluding firearms and ammunition were down 12.4% and excluding firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories were down 8.5%.
For the quarter comp store sales of softgoods and general outdoors declined at a high single-digit rate.
Footwear comped down slightly; while hunting apparel powersports and women's and children's apparel comped down mid-single digits.
Men's apparel hunting equipment home and gifts and archery all comped down low teens.
While hard to measure some of this decline is undoubtedly driven by less traffic which was not entirely offset by wallet share gains as customers shift out of firearms and ammunition.
Additionally the late start to spring further challenged comp store sales in both softgoods and general outdoors categories.
With the arrival of spring we expect improvements in the performance of our softgoods and general outdoors assortments.
First quarter firearm sales are trending at 2011 to 2012 levels.
Retail ammunition sales during the quarter were slightly above levels seen in the first quarter of 2012.
Comp store sales showed sequential improvement throughout the quarter a trend we expect to continue throughout the lap of the surge in firearms and ammunition.
Second quarter comp store sales to date are down approximately 16%.
For the full second quarter we expect comp store sales to be down 10% to 13%.
During the quarter Cabela's branded product continued to show meaningful improvement.
As a percent of total softgood sales Cabela's branded product increased by 470 basis points to 58.7% from 54% in the year-ago quarter.
This is extremely encouraging as the Cabela's brand continues to offer the highest quality and most technically advanced products including XPG Guidewear Zonz camouflage clothing and OutfitHer just to name a few.
The strength of our brand has never been greater and we are very excited for the innovative new Cabela's branded products we will be offering to our customers throughout the year.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased approximately 15% to $98.6 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continue to see favorable delinquency in charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.8% in the quarter.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 20.3% as a result of the significant decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories.
As we look at the trends in Direct ammunition sales over the past several years first quarter Direct ammunition sales are consistent with levels we saw prior to the year-ago surge.
Our omni-channel improvements continue to gain traction as improved conversion rates increase traffic to our new mobile site and benefits from our omni-channel fulfillment program during the quarter have been very encouraging.
During the quarter our ability to tightly manage expenses resulted in operating expense growth of 4.7% while we grew retail square footage by 14%.
The expense initiatives already in place will continue to yield benefits for the remainder of 2014 as we expect mid- to high-single digit expense growth for each of the remaining quarters of the year.
For the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 112 basis points from 34.4% from 35.6% in the year-ago quarter.
Margins in firearms and ammunition declined to pre-surge levels as a result of improved supply and testing of certain aggressive promotions within specific categories of firearms and ammunition.
A slower start to spring resulted in a higher-than-expected sales mix of discontinued cold-weather merchandise.
Margin movement in the second half of 2014 will be driven by new product performance in soft goods as well as more normal promotional cadence.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
Expense initiatives already in place together with strong new store performance increases in Cabela's branded products and growth in Cabela's CLUB will drive earnings growth for full year 2014.
As a result we reaffirmed our previous full year guidance and continue to expect 2014 earnings per share to increase at a high single-digit to low double-digit rate versus 2013 adjusted earnings per share of $3.32.
Furthermore we expect full year 2014 revenue to increase at a mid- to high-single digit rate.
Due to carryover in the surge in firearms and ammunition sales from a year ago we expect second quarter 2014 revenue to grow at a low single-digit rate and earnings per share to be between $0.45 and $0.55.
For the third quarter we expect revenue to increase at a low double-digit rate and earnings per share to be between $0.85 and $0.95.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores strong growth in financial services revenue and outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products.
We opened 1 new store during the first quarter in Augusta Georgia and have opened 2 stores in the last 3 weeks one in Greenville South Carolina and the other in Anchorage Alaska.
Looking forward to the remainder of 2014 we plan to open 5 more stores in the second quarter.
These stores are: Christiana Delaware; Woodbury Minnesota; and Edmonton Alberta all scheduled to open in May; and Missoula Montana and Lovett Texas expect to open in June.
In the third quarter we plan to open stores in Barrie Ontario; Acworth Georgia; Cheektowaga New York; Tualatin Oregon; Nanaimo British Columbia; and Bowling Green Kentucky.
These 14 stores represent approximately 1 million new square feet of retail space or 17% square footage growth in 2014.
As Tommy mentioned operating expenses grew by 4.7% during the first quarter.
This expense growth of approximately $12 million is primarily attributable to new store expenses of roughly $7.4 million.
As we look at managing expenses for the remainder of the year it's important to note a few key components.
We expect preopening cost to be nearly flat year-over-year; incentive compensation is also expected to be down versus full year 2013.
We'll continue to prudently manage store level advertising and brand marketing cost.
And finally we expect only small growth in corporate overhead expense in 2014.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased approximately 15% to $98.6 million.
The increase in financial services revenue was primarily due to a 7.9% increase in average active account.
The account growth helped drive higher interest in fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.3%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 6 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.8%.
Additionally we continue to see improvements in delinquency: Greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.68% as compared to 0.73% a year ago; greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.41% as compared to 0.45% a year ago; and greater than 30-day delinquencies which is 0.22% as compared to 0.24% a year ago.
As a result of these lower delinquencies and roll rates during the quarter we reduced our allowance for loan losses by $1.9 million compared to approximately $1 million in the year-ago quarter.
Additionally at the end of the first quarter we completed a 3-year term securitization of fund growth the transaction included $255 million of notes that accrue interest at a full-in rate equal to 1 month LIBOR plus 35 basis points per year.
For the quarter the financial services interest expense increased 14.7% to $15.9 million as compared to $13.9 million in the same quarter a year ago.
As we discussed in our Analayst Day in March we expect interest expense growth to continue to slow and our expectation is that interest expense for the full year of 2014 will be consistent with 2013 levels as we replace higher fixed-rate CDs issued 3 to 5 years ago.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased 21% or $129 million year-over-year to $742 million.
Over the same period we have grown retail square footage by 14.8% with 10 new stores opening since Q1 2013.
Additionally we're very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we've rolled out our spring assortment and prepare for the upcoming new store openings.
For the quarter capital from operations was negative $56 million compared to a positive $122 million in the same period 1 year ago.
The majority of the change in cash both from operations is due to a timing difference at Cabela's CLUB related to daily settlement of our customer charges as the year-ago quarter for the CLUB ended on a weekend.
With our accelerated store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $300 million to $350 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2014 or early 2015 to fund future growth.
Additionally in the latter part of this quarter we expect the renegotiate our existing credit agreement to increase capacity and extend the maturity.
Now let me turn back the call over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
With the most challenging comparison from the firearms and ammunition surge behind us we are confident in the strength of our company.
We're very encouraged by our ability to manage expenses the performance of our new stores the improvements in our omni-channel model the growth in our Cabela's CLUB Loyalty Program and the outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products.
Our growth strategy remains strong and intact as we continue to seek out new opportunities for our business.
Our Outfitters are the heart and soul of this company and I would like to sincerely thank each and every one of them for their hard work and dedication in cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Reed Anderson with Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Tommy maybe for your first.
You had some commentary on promotional activity related to firearms and a couple of other things.
I'm just curious does that reflect just kind of Cabela's factors during the quarter? Or were there other considerations relative to the competitive environment? Or something you were seeing out there that would account for that? Reed it wasn't competitive factors.
I think it was really in January February when we're going up these -- against these big numbers.
In firearms and ammunition it was more of a visceral response to try to make something happen.
And we sacrificed hundreds of basis points of margins in modern sporting rifles and in other categories of guns and in some ammo specs to try and make something happen and drive some business.
And oddly as it unfolded during the quarter and even into April as we throttled those more aggressive deeply discounted products back it didn't -- business remained at the same level so we were probably unnecessarily aggressive.
And when we pulled back to a normal cadence the business maintained and actually ammunition as we've gotten into April has actually improved a little bit.
So it's just tough for all of us to watch red numbers every day early in January and February so we tried to make some stuff happen.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
But it sounds like from your commentary though in the prepared remarks that you're expecting more or less a normalized promotional cadence pretty much balance of the year.
We are and we've already started that in April.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And another question for you Tommy that -- the softgood penetration percent of the Cabela's brand I mean it makes a lot of sense given all the product we saw at the Analyst Day and it's a terrific improvement.
Is that a good proxy that sort of an increase for what we might see for the full year? Or is that more just 1Q you had a lot of new stuff roll out? I mean I would expect it to go up.
I'm just kind of think order of magnitude what might be reasonable this year in terms of that metric? I think that's a reasonable level.
You certainly saw the focus we're going to have in the fall with the great new products that we showed you.
So I think it's in the ballpark.
It was just really challenging Reed in the first quarter.
The obvious downdraft of traffic year-over-year from the surge was just something we knew it was going to happen and we knew it would affect the other categories of our business.
I think what we didn't expect was a winter that simply wouldn't end.
And our stores were set for spring on February 15.
And I know where you live and there was probably 3 feet of snow on the ground which is not exactly conducive to buying hiker pants and XPG short-sleeved shirts nor was it the most places in the country.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
That's good.
And then Ralph just a couple of quick ones for you.
First new account growth kind of looking at that staff for the quarters 7.9%.
Is that a number we should see accelerate a little bit throughout the year? I'm just thinking back to what I with probably expectations out for the full year.
And then secondly just on kind of similar thoughts on merchandise gross margin is that -- is this the situation this year what with really tough on a full year basis to grow margins? Or do you still think you could overcome what you saw in the first quarter? Then I'll stop there and let somebody else jump in.
Well let -- I'll start with the CLUB question first.
There's no question in the first quarter our CLUB account growth was impacted by the absence of the firearm traffic we saw a year ago.
So that probably more so than the new stores is why we should expect slight acceleration in card growth as we move throughout the year.
Now it's not going to be a huge number but it was 100 basis points of acceleration I think we'd be really pleased with that.
As far as margin expansion goes yes I mean we would expect -- we don't expect the same performance in the back half of the year that we saw in the first quarter.
Now having said that I don't know if we're going to be able to grow them for the full year or not.
I think something plus or minus flat for the full year is -- would be an expectation I would have.
And as you know just because mathematically it's going to largely be determined by how we do in the fourth quarter given the relative size of that.
We'll take our next question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First a question on the Direct business.
The margins were down year-over-year but it looked like a little bit better-than-expected just given the sales decline and certainly up from 2012 levels.
Just trying to understand where some of the progress is coming from there? And how to think about some of the opportunities for that business? Well the biggest expense in that business is advertising cost.
There's really 3 expenses that hit directly to the Direct business it's the advertising any internet-related cost and call centers.
And I think our team continues to look at ways to more effectively use those expenses over time.
So yes I was certainly would not envision a lot of expansion in that area but we've obviously been pleased with how it's performing.
Seth we did see as we did in the Retail business sequential improvement in Direct as the quarter unfolded.
I think the prospects in Direct for the balance of the year we've got to go through the second quarter because in the second quarter it was still a very very big ammo quarter as availability started to loosen up last year.
So we've got to get through the first quarter.
I would tell you we're pretty pleased with the progress we've made in our mobile site in our store-to-door capabilities.
We're working on a couple of other things but balancing that we also have some really big stores opening the rest of this year in markets that were pretty deeply concentrated in Direct customers.
And so I think we'll see.
We're working really hard on the Direct business.
Last thing I would tell you retention across the enterprise was down 5% which we view as kind of a positive given this huge delta in traffic year-over-year to hold retention at only a down 5% given the order of magnitude.
We were actually pretty pleased with that and it just -- I think speaks to the stickiness people have to our brand.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Great.
Well just one question on new store performance.
The new format stores those that are actually in the comp base just trying to understand how they're comping relative to the legacy stores.
I think that's a number that you guys have given in the past? Yes it is.
They are still coping better than the legacy stores but as you can imagine over time as we have more of them and more of them that are starting to mature we're starting to see that performance narrow a little bit so we've gotten away from just disclosing because it's not as -- as they mature as obviously we have more and more of them in the base.
But they are in totality they're still performing better than the legacy stores.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But presumably as you open up more stores more of them will come into the base.
I guess you'll have a higher mix of younger comping stores in the base I mean should that start to help as you look out over the next few quarters as more of those stores come in? Yes that would be a positive.
That should be a positive interpret of it Tom.
Yes I think what we're more excited about as it relates to new stores is just the absolute performance we've seen at the new stores as they open even in that first year.
I mean the fact that sales per square foot of our new stores only declined as little as it did in a quarter that the total comp was down 24%.
Post-surge.
It was pretty encouraging to us.
We'll move forward to our next question from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> You indicated that the operating expenses came in less than your internal plan in the first quarter so can you elaborate on that? And then as we think about this business beyond 2014 the company's taking aggressive actions to achieve earnings growth this year but are there some of these expenses that are being curtailed this year that will come back next year such that we'll have that faster rate of expense growth? Well Mark let me back up with a little color and Ralph can get into some detail.
Obviously last summer we knew this Mt.
Everest of Q1 and Q2 was facing us.
So we began a systematic approach to lowering the fixed cost within our company.
And it started with a couple of carve outs that were sacred that you need to understand.
One is we got these stores opening.
We're not going to compromise them.
We're 2/3 of the way down the path in an amazing transformation of our omni-channel marketing initiatives to include all kinds of capabilities online and on mobile sites.
There is no way in the world we were going to touch the investments that we're making to build Cabela's branded products.
And then lastly we weren't going to compromise our values in any way shape or form.
Everything outside of that from things as little as travel all the way through the enterprise we reached out to our outfitters and said “Help us find areas where we are not efficiently spending money." And our outfitters as they always do have responded they have given us multitudes of ideas and they yielded real benefit for us in Q1 which we do not expect to stop this pursuit of wringing waste out of the company as we get into 2015 '16 or '17.
It's a new mindset because we got to believe that there probably isn't another surge ahead of us.
Although my career would dispel that but we can't plan for that to happen.
So Ralph you want to give some color? The only comment -- I'll give you a couple of comments on operating expenses.
Obviously and we didn't talk about it much in the last call because it was going to be executed a few days afterwards but obviously we had to let some outfitters go at our retail locations.
Those savings are permanent.
We've had other ones in incentive comp another great one this is just -- this is more of an anecdote but year-over-year in the first quarter alone our travel expenses were down $2 million year-over-year.
So there's things like that that I think are mostly permanent.
The one that will definitely come back is incentive comp at least for the year will be fairly significantly less than it was in 2013.
We will plan for that to come back in 2015 which is part of the reason to Tommy's point we're looking at a lot of these expenses carrying over into '15 to help cover that 1 particular operating expense which is the only one I can think of that is not sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that color.
Can I also ask about your I guess perspective on the 2-year stack comp.
Is this a useful framework for us to look at? You did make reference to I think firearms being back at levels of 2011 and '12 and I think ammo I think you said was slightly above 1Q '12.
So does that mean that other parts of the business would be I guess flat to down on a 2-year basis? And -- so I guess should we be thinking about that growing later on in the year? And if so how do we see that transformation? Well I think at least in the second quarter that math of the 2-year comp being about flat seems to be pretty close.
It's deteriorated a little bit in the first quarter so maybe in the second quarter you look at the 2-year comp being down a little bit.
Clearly as we move out through the back half of the year and the gun impact becomes less impactful we would expect improvement of the 2-year performance.
Research Division</strong> I think we'll all be looking forward to that normalized second half compare.
So will we.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Ralph could you go back to just repeat the number because I don't think I got it right.
The cash flow from operations you anticipate for this year.
And then it looks like you did -- you already did some borrowing in the first quarter.
How does that fit in with the bank financing and other external debt financing you plan to do this year? Well we expect cash flow from operations for the full year 2014 to be between $300 million and $350 million and CapEx to be between $400 million and $450 million.
We did do -- and I -- when we made do more later in the year we did do a financing deal in the first quarter.
It was a 3-year deal and it was mostly variable.
That will largely be the sort of transactions we're looking at through the remainder of 2014.
Now the parent company the most immediate action we're going to take is to increase and extend our credit facility which we expect to do here in the next I don't know 30 to 60 days.
That -- those conversations are going very well.
We may do a permanent financing transaction at the parent company in late 2014.
I would tell you most likely we'll probably push that into early 2015.
So based on that the most likely external financing or addition to external debt financing for business operations has already been done? Well except -- well no.
The big deal -- I'll exclude -- I assume -- I don't know what you mean by business operations but assuming we're excluding our financial services subsidiary from that.
The first thing we're going to do this year is increase our credit facility which we don't expect to be done for another 30 to 60 days.
But do you expect to draw down on that given that you took down some borrowings in the first quarter? Yes we will continue to draw down and increase on that as we move out throughout the year.
And if we don't do a permanent financing transaction I would expect there to be a balance on that as we left the year.
More of the last year we left the year with the balance on our revolving credit facility of only $2 million or $3 million.
It will most likely be more than that significantly more than that as we exit '14.
Absent of permanent financing.
Okay.
And any thoughts about -- you gave some pretty good -- I think reasonably newer guidance for the second quarter and the third quarter of this year.
Why is the fourth quarter sort of open-ended at this point? Well only because we felt like you kind of backed into it.
We gave you the full year and gave you the second and third quarter.
So that's the only reason for excluding it.
We'll move to our next question from Joe Edelstein with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask a couple of other questions about the Financial Services segment.
You had some really good performance there.
The interchange income rate was a little bit lower than what we were expecting though.
Is there anything that you would call out specific to that line? Or should we kind of expect about a 10% rate going forward as we've seen in the past? I'm sorry well interchange was down.
I think it was interest and fee income that was actually 10%.
Interchange income ran about 8.8%.
And we did see a decline particularly earlier in the quarter in purchases which is why -- what we've seen was -- has been a little bit interesting is a decrease in purchases per card but an increase in revolving rate which is why you see the decrease in interchange income and the increase in interest and fee income.
Quite frankly that increase in interchange rate is something we're watching pretty closely and optimistic about it for the remainder of the year.
That could be meaningful.
And Joe that was spend on the card outside of Cabela's we saw modest declines.
Was it the macroeconomic environment? Or was it cold-weather? Everybody was just hunkered down.
It seemed to be across all spending bands from high-end retailers to convenience stores.
It was sort of everywhere in January and February.
And later it started to improve a bit.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's a very helpful detail.
I'd also like to just ask about the allowance for loan loss.
I know the charge-offs were down the delinquency rates remain low.
And it does look like the allowance as a percent of the receivables has come down from about 1.9% 1 year ago down to about just over 1%.
At what point might we see those credit stats start to normalize a bit and see that allowance bucket rise? I'm just trying to get a sense for what the credit models are telling you at this point.
Well quite frankly -- well first of all the reason for the decrease in the first quarter is we saw -- as disclosed we saw a meaningful decrease in both delinquencies charge-offs and roll rates which we don't disclose.
And that's the percentage of -- and kind of back into it but that's the movement between various delinquency buckets.
We just saw a meaningful improvement of that in the first quarter.
And as a result of that brought down our allowance for future losses.
If those trends would continue throughout the back half of the year obviously that would give us -- we'd be pretty optimistic about the performance of that.
As I'm thinking about the business today and particularly the allowance for loan losses I still think for the full year we're going to have to increase that.
Probably not to the extent of the $7 million that we shared with you at our Analyst Day that we have to but I would still expect increases in the allowances would move throughout the back half of the year.
We'll move to our next question with Matt Nemer from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig into the merch margin a little more.
Could you give us a little bit of color parse that out in terms of how much pressure we're seeing from the gun and ammo business.
You talked about promotional activity there versus some of your non-gun and ammo businesses.
And I'm wondering if with the late spring and the healthy inventory growth if there's some carryover from that pressure into the second quarter? Well I'll answer the last part of the first.
I mean we felt really -- mainly because of the long winter we felt really good about how we exited the fall season from a mark down perspective.
So I wouldn't expect to see a significant amount of markdowns.
Now as far as giving you color on the mix of merchandise margin it was I guess I'll use the word all but it was heavily heavily skewed towards declines in the absolute categories of hunting and ammunition.
Now obviously we got a benefit because of mix which was more than offset by the first 2.
And to Tommy's comments earlier we expect that to normalize with less promotions and other things.
But if you look at -- and I'll try to give you a little bit of color on that but if you look at margins I know look at it in both guns and ammo I mean we saw some of the highest margins we ever saw in both the first quarter and the second quarter of '13.
As you move out later in the year those gun margins are at way more of historical levels and the grow over becomes much much easier.
Matt it was -- during the quarter as I mentioned we were set for spring in the stores in mid-February.
And obviously with the harshness of the winter that just wouldn't go away we were left with selling it seemed like forever end-of-season cold-weather products from packed foods to 4-way parkas and base layer and just we're just trying to stretch into a spring that didn't come until April.
So that put downward pressure that just was what was it was.
To kind of help quantify that and this really goes also to previous question about how -- why we -- how we expect margins to the back of the year.
In 2013 both in guns and ammo we saw a board of 500-basis-point deterioration in margin in those categories as we move throughout the year.
So clearly as we move into the -- what's really important which is the third and fourth quarter we will have much easier comparisons as it relates to margin particularly in guns and ammunition.
And our current margin expense are at those normalized levels right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very very helpful.
And then secondly as we look at the implied Q4 guide it would seem like that quarter needs to be quite a bit stronger than Q3.
You've been talking about sort of this 2-year look back.
But as we get to Q4 if you look back 2 years you're starting to look at the surge.
So I'm just -- I wanted to get a little color on some of your Q4 inputs.
Do the sales actually maybe start to trend more on 3-year-ago levels? Say $110 per foot? What's driving the Q4 growth? Well I think the biggest thing that's driving the Q4 growth is just -- is -- we are assuming that we will guide to more normalized levels by the time we get to Q4.
And then on top of just the comp basis Matt we've got great cap brand products coming for the fall which you guys saw at Analyst Day.
We're working really hard on expenses and corporate overhead.
We have solid expectations for the new stores that are coming in the balance of the year and the CLUB continues to perform at really high levels.
And we think we're going to be in a more normal business pattern in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly as you see the spring weather come are you -- but you wouldn't see this in your Q2 comp guidance necessarily but does it feel like there is pent-up demand and you're seeing almost a surge? Or is that maybe -- it might just be painting it more positive than it is? Yes you're painting it more positive that it is.
Because remember we're still facing enormous traffic comps year-over-year in Q2.
Not as great as it was in Q1 but it's still pretty big in Q2.
But what we're optimistic that we are seeing and I'll give you a specific anecdote our penetration of spring merchandise in the first quarter year-over-year was down 800 basis points.
So I'm joking but not really.
When icefishing is the best-performing segment in the first quarter that should tell you something.
So we see this 800 basis point decline in spring penetration that is now as the second quarter started come totally back to normal which says customers starting to bounce back.
Which we're also seeing it in the spend in -- on the card outside of Cabela's but I wouldn't call it a radical rebound by any stretch.
But it's better.
Our next question comes from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a general comment.
For what it's worth I'm pleased to see the additional direction on the guidance.
A couple of questions.
So...
Well Jim we -- hey Jim went out of our way as we said in the last couple of quarters to give as much clarity in this period of volatility as we could so I appreciate the feedback.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Great.
Yes I think that's helpful it puts guardrails around the consensus estimates and hopefully creates a more normalized environment from an investment standpoint.
A few questions.
Some of these have been addressed from different angles so bear with me on this as I take my own approach.
Ralph the outlook on the CLUB some changing commentary from the Analyst Day.
I think you had said you weren't expecting to see growth in the Finance business.
Now you list it is one of the contributing factors to earnings growth.
What's changed there? Is it just the view on delinquencies and so forth that gives you more confidence on the provision? Well that's part of it.
That business is performing better than I probably thought it would on Analyst Day there's no question that's improving.
For a bunch of -- probably the 2 biggest factors our revolving rate is up and the late -- and charge-offs to delinquencies are less than what I thought they were going to be a month ago when we talked.
That's -- I mean probably the end.
I mean those are the 2 biggest things.
And I think we're optimistic on growth as we get to the year so.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Delinquencies we look at it it's kind of a leading indicator on the provisions but anything you can do to help with kind of the quarterly cadence of that finance business as you see it over the course of the year? Any color there would be helpful Ralph.
You mean particularly on the allowance? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> No not the allowance.
Just all of the factors that kind of build up to your changed outlook for the year.
The allowance is obviously a particularly important one.
Yes.
I don't know that I can give you a whole lot of color in that by quarter.
I mean we're seeing really good performance out of that business.
The only real opportunity -- I was actually going to touch on this when we're in the discussion about SG&amp;A has been fraud losses of the CLUB.
We have seen a pretty significant increase in fraud losses.
This is where our card is used unwittingly by a bad guy.
So Jim Duffy if you've got a card somebody gets your numbers and puts fraudulent charges on it that we have to eat.
That line item actually runs through SG&amp;A for the CLUB.
And in the first quarter it was up several million dollars over the previous year.
If our team is working really hard to get that under control.
To the extent we could get that back down that would be further opportunity for us.
Jim we think we're performing consistent with the industry maybe even a little bit better.
But the fraudsters are -- they're alive and well right now and working very hard which is a factor we've got to deal with in the balance of the year.
But it's industry-wide not just us.
And to kind of -- just this is more of a long-term deal on this but it was -- some of this is pretty fascinating that one of our CLUB associates shared with me at one of our store openings.
They showed me CLUB membership by state.
And what was just fascinating to me is and I'm trying to do this from memory but if you looked at our club members in the state of Georgia compared to Minnesota we had like 1/10 as many card members in Georgia as we do in Minnesota.
Now there's a bunch of reasons for that one of which is we've had 3 stores in Minnesota and have had them for a number of years but it just goes to the potential as we go to some of these new geographies for long-term sustainable growth in that business.
And we're seeing great apps-to-trans ratios in Anchorage Greenville and in Augusta particularly in the Southeast.
We've seen customers really embrace the desire to have of one of our cards because nobody's ever asked them.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
Good to hear.
Shifting gears a bit.
Some question around the comps and the comp outlook.
One of the things I'm struggling to get my arms around you were calling for in the second quarter a comp that's down on a 2-year basis.
Even in the first quarter the 2-year comp was better.
Why would you not be making progress on the 2-year comp in the second quarter seemingly as the spring business normalizes that would be a lift? We're just trying to take a conservative approach to the quarter given still the headwinds that we face.
One of the things -- to your point one of the things we've seen recently that's been an encouraging trend is ammo has gotten -- in the last 3 or 4 weeks ammo sales have gotten much stronger.
So I don't know if that maybe is upside for the second quarter I guess we'll see.
I would tell you we looked at it a lot and maybe it does appear that for some reason the 2-year comp is getting slightly worse in the second quarter.
Chris [ph] is trying to do the math here quickly and tells me it's about the same if you multiply instead of add.
But look I think we're just trying to make sure we got the business rightsized as we go through the second quarter and go through this big gun surge.
Our next question comes from Sean Naughton with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> First just a big picture on just the space generally.
I just would be interested on your thoughts on the just the competitive environment.
There seems to be a lot of square footage coming into this space.
A number of different people starting to come in and grow a little bit more quickly here and opening up stores.
Just would be curious on your perspective on that and what's happening there? And then maybe secondly any color on impacts to your stores or existing stores when one of these players opens up near you guys? Well as we've mentioned to you before there are a whole lot of markets that we compete in Phoenix Dallas Baton Rouge Omaha.
I could keep going where we compete directly with our biggest competitors.
And we seem to do well in those markets and I suspect they probably do as well.
They're -- in an actual numbers of units there hasn't -- there's a lot of talk but when you look at a really big country and especially North America if all of our known competitors build 10 stores -- I mean it's a big country.
It's not really that big of a deal.
And I like to think Sean that we're giving more ulcers then we're getting.
So I mean I look at the performance of our new stores that have gone into some of our competitors' backyards and I got to feel pretty good about where we are.
So look we're mindful of our competitors.
They're all very good but we seem to have a pretty unique model and it continues to work very well at $500 a foot.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just on Q1 it seems like a couple of stores I think that you initially thought were going to open in Q1 pushed out to Q2.
Anything to read in there as to why those stores may have been a few days late on what you guys were trying to open? No.
I would not read much into that.
I think Chris said 1 of them ended up being a week later and crossed the just crossed the quarter.
But no there is nothing to read into that.
Occasionally for whatever reason we might move a store a week either for construction reasons or marketing reasons or whatever and I would not read anything into that.
We're totally on track for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just lastly I know people have circled around the Financial Services segment here but just on the margin rate in that business.
Is that a good number to think about? It went up quite a bit in terms of the annualized return that you're getting on that from last year.
Is that a good way to think about that particular segment of the business moving forward? Well I got to tell you I really -- I don't look that much at the margin rate in our Financial Services business.
Quite frankly what I think is the best leading indicator of that is that revenue line that we talked about.
But that earlier was somebody else's question.
And the fact that we -- and this was accretive to margin.
But the fact that our financial services revenue as a percent of total went from 10.3% to 10.5% that to me more encouraging than the other factors so.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And maybe just one last question here.
Any update on the smaller store format where you are on rolling those out? I know they're going to be called Cabela's Stores here moving forward versus Outpost.
But just -- how are you guys feeling about the smaller-store format? We feel good about it.
It's interesting and these are not related but as you move in and start to look particularly at 15 openings we're actually opening probably more of the bigger stores.
And that in no way should be construed as meaning we don't have confidence in the smaller ones.
It's just that some opportunities opened in some big markets where we think we can make a big impact and we're going to do that.
That probably means at some future year I'm not sure I know when that is we'll need to open more smaller stores.
But we're really excited about our opportunities for '15 in some really major markets.
And Sean the smaller stores do not require less effort.
So if you got a big market like Portland with a bigger store you obviously want to get there for the same amount of effort.
We'll take our next question from David Magee with Suntrust Robinson &amp; Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the gun comparisons as we work towards hopefully the latter innings there the tough numbers.
Has the impact in the core categories been greater than expected from that? And then secondly what do you see in terms of the other going forward residual benefit from all those new customers? Are you seeing ongoing activity on new cards that were issued last year or something like that? That would give you confidence that you retain that business? Well David I think it's fair to say that in the other categories in the first quarter it was probably down a little more than we thought it was going to be but I'm not sure how much weather had to do with that.
It feels like a lot but it's a hard thing to prove so we kind of don't hang our hat on that.
But I think we are reasonably encouraged that we've stabilized at this new level as we enter the second quarter.
Our ability to put cards in the hands of all those folks a lot of those folks that qualify to buy guns the real marquee number that I think gives us the most amount of confidence is that retention in this huge downdraft of traffic was only down 5% in the quarter against transactions that were down close to 15%.
That's a -- we think that's a pretty good bellwether.
Let me just make -- No I just wanted to give you a little bit more color on the gun thing.
And I think to your point I think probably the attach rate or the halo effect or whatever on guns in the first quarter was probably more than I thought.
But let me kind of give a little color to just how meaningful the first quarter was.
One of the things I did in sort of preparation for this and looking at historical trends is go back and look at just the stores that've been opened since 2009.
And just look at their gun sales to sort of get some sense for where we are where we are in the trend.
Now I'm going to exclude the fourth quarter from this discussion just because in every year has been the biggest gun quarter of the year.
But if I look at just -- it's basically 29 stores that we have had that opened for that period of time.
I would tell you in the first 3 quarters of the year gun sales have sort of ranged between call it $47 million and $58 million in those 9 stores.
-- I'm sorry in those 20 whatever it is 29 stores that were opened since 2009.
In the first quarter we sold $96 million -- first quarter a year ago we sold $96 million of guns out of those first 29 stores.
That number for comparable purposes -- in this year those stores did $59 million so we saw a pretty decent decline.
In the second quarter a year ago those stores did $56 million.
So that $96 million that we did in the first quarter out of those 29 stores is a huge outlier.
We're going to quickly start to normalize it as we move into the third and fourth quarters of the year.
And then -- as you can might expect to the questions earlier we got about why we're optimistic in the fourth quarter.
If you look at gun sales already in the fourth quarter of '13 those were down pretty meaningfully compared to the fourth quarter of '12.
So we've already seen a big piece of the decline in those sort of bay stores.
I hope that's helpful but it's just this first quarter was such a huge outlier from gun sales that we're going to quickly start normalizing.
Second quarter by the way was -- that $56 million number is still high by historical standards that it will probably be down.
But we start to get into much more normalized quarters as we get into the third and fourth quarter.
And ammunition mirrors the same kind of outlier pattern.
Absolutely.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick question on just the weather impact.
The -- are we getting to a point I guess that it's probably fishing about what impact right now and I'm just curious as we get into the late spring early summer fishing weather as a factor becomes less important does it not? Yes.
Well you still want a good spring for fishing and fly fishing and boating and all of those categories.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the fishing category as you think about what might impacted here in the past month or so is that the primary category? By the weather? Yes and boating as well in the month of March.
With everything frozen solid in 2/3 of the country it was pretty difficult for -- to get people to take delivery of boats and to get them excited about going anything other than ice fishing which I really wasn't kidding.
That was a real positive comper -- it's just a shame it's not a meaningful part of our business.
And we'll take our next question from Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions were answered but I know you guys gave that the numbers for the sales of new stores versus the legacy stores which is certainly helpful.
Can you comment on the profit outperformance of the new stores versus legacy stores? And how do you see that going forward? Yes I've got it and it's still let me get the relative numbers.
I mean it's still as a percentage change sort of in line with revenue.
Where it's -- at the end of the year we told you that the 11 stores that we had did profit at $94 per square foot as we -- and that's on obviously the rolling 12 including 11 stores.
As you look at the 14 stores opened for the last 12 months it's only slightly less than that.
As we feel really good now.
Obviously that was -- one of the benefits of that was we have 3 -- those 3 new stores that rolled into the base they were open the first quarter of last year are doing really well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And going forward how do you see that trending because your smaller stores like the Outpost stores or soon-to-be called just Cabela's Stores.
I mean that they do have a higher mix of higher-margin products.
So can you just help us think about it? I mean how that can trend going forward? Well we expect it to continue to be positive.
I would tell you it's for a different reason though.
The Outpost stores quite frankly are not that much better.
And there's so few of them particularly in a total square foot impact I don't expect that to make a significant difference.
But just looking at the performance of some of those stores that we opened in 2013 which we'll now be rolling into the calculations as they've been open for 12 months we're pretty excited those numbers will maintain pretty high levels as we move throughout the year.
Like the Colorado stores.
Which actually don't roll in [ph] to come into the calculation until the fourth quarter because they didn't open until August.
They won't be open for a full 12 months until we get to the fourth quarter.
But we're pretty confident of that number as we move forward given some of the stores.
It will be interesting 6 months from now to hear -- to understand how we feel about the '14 openings.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And quickly on the Direct business can you comment on the -- your catalog circulation in the quarter? How -- what that was versus year ago? And should we expect a continual shift to more digital marketing? Yes.
We -- you should continue to expect a modest shift to more digital.
I think we're at a pretty good place in our medium mix right now so I wouldn't expect a dramatic shift out of catalogs to digital because I think we're pretty comfortable with where the mix is falling right now.
And we'll take our final question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most things were hit but I did just want to beat 1 dead horse.
And that firearm and ammo margins just looking at that.
Tommy maybe if you can walk through kind of where the steady-state is and the delta that you saw in the surge above steady-state on margins in those businesses? And maybe the delta below where we're at in Q1? Well I'll reiterate the color I provided earlier.
We got very aggressive in the hundreds of basis points and we'll talk about guns right now.
But in guns just to try in January and February to get some traffic which we did.
As we started to moderate those margins to more normalized levels later in the quarter we didn't see any real change in velocity.
And as we've come into the second quarter we're at that kind of normalized level but to dimensionalize it the peak surge of margins were probably 300 to 400 basis points higher than historical run rates.
But it only lasted for a couple of quarters and we just see it stabilizing against historical patterns.
Ralph you got any more color? No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
Is there any chance that we're in a -- any sort of a new norm that we wouldn't see things return to kind of that steady-state? I know through 2011 '12 you guys have worked on moving those margins higher in those businesses.
Do you feel like you could hit back at that steady-state? Or is there any reason that should drop? Yes we do.
We do actually.
Yes we do actually.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Tommy Millner I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you all again soon.
That concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.