Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and via webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We are disappointed that revenue in the third quarter has been slower to rebound than we expected.
Despite the slower-than-expected rebound there are many areas of our business with which we are pleased and are worth noting.
The first is strong new store performance as new stores continued to perform at very high levels.
The second is how successful our Outfitters have been at finding cost savings opportunities to continue to reduce operating expenses across all areas of our company.
Third is the continued strong performance of Cabela's CLUB.
Finally the success and innovation of Cabela's branded products which saw increased sales penetration in the quarter.
Let's discuss sales performance first.
For the quarter comp store sales decreased 11.2%.
The decrease in comp store sales was primarily due to several factors affecting customer shopping patterns.
For the quarter transactions declined 13%.
The falloff in demand for firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories while moderating continues to have an impact on customer spending.
Comp store sales excluding firearms ammunition and other shooting-related categories and optics we're down 7.8%.
Given the large increase in the number of new customers we saw during the surge it is not surprising that retention rates have declined slightly.
While we are keeping many of these new customers and our core customers continue to shop with us we are seeing a slight decrease in store visits per customer.
We have been pleased with average ticket in stores and saw an increase of nearly 2% for the quarter.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 11.7% as a result of greater-than-expected decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories as well as the impact of some cannibalization from our retail stores.
As we look at trends in direct ammunition sales over the past several years third quarter direct ammunition sales are consistent with levels we saw prior to the year-ago surge.
Our omni-channel improvements continue to gain traction as increased traffic to our new mobile site via handheld and tablet devices as well as benefits from our omni-channel fulfillment program during the quarter have been very encouraging.
We are also very excited about upcoming improvements to our omni-channel strategy such as giving our outfitters the capability to execute mobile point-of-sale and enhancing customer service with streamlined checkout.
Also during the quarter we saw increased positive customer reaction to promotional products.
Sales performance of promotional items improved significantly in the quarter compared to the prior year period.
This is a trend we expect will continue.
And as we look to the fourth quarter we expect to increase promotional activity to drive customers to our brand.
Now let's review highlights of the quarter starting with new store performance.
At the end of the third quarter for the trailing 12-month period the 20 new format stores that were opened for the full period had sales per square foot of nearly $460 outperforming our legacy store base by roughly 43%.
Additionally these same new format stores outperformed our legacy store base by approximately 57% in profit per square foot over the same period.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our new stores and are particularly pleased with results in Anchorage Alaska; Christiana Delaware; Acworth Georgia; Tualatin Oregon; and our new stores in Canada which continued to produce extraordinary results.
The exceptional performance of these new stores continues to give us great confidence in our future store openings.
Over the last year despite experiencing lower-than-planned revenues combined with the challenges of opening 14 new stores our outfitters had displayed their deep commitment to our company.
This is particularly evident in our collective ability to control expenses.
Outfitters have worked harder with less staff and resources and yet have executed at very high levels.
For all their effort our outfitters have our deepest thanks.
During the quarter they were able to help reduce expenses by 1.5% as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
We expect ongoing benefit from these efforts in the balance of 2014 and full year 2015.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continue to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7.5%.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased 10.9% to $109.1 million.
This increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.56% in the quarter.
During the quarter Cabela's branded product continued to show meaningful improvement.
As a percent of total sales Cabela's branded product increased by 100 basis points.
The strength of our brand has never been greater and we are very excited for the innovative new Cabela's branded products we'll be offering to customers throughout the remainder of 2014 and into 2015.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
In light of the slower-than-expected rebound from the surge we are adjusting our full year guidance.
Thus far in October comparable store sales have improved over the third quarter levels and we now expect fourth quarter comparable store sales to decrease at a mid-single-digit rate and total revenue to grow at a high single-digit rate.
Based on these revenue projections we expect full year 2014 adjusted earnings per diluted share to be between $3.10 and $3.20.
As we look forward to 2015 it is important to note that fiscal year 2015 will have 53 weeks as compared to 52 weeks in fiscal year 2014.
While our 2015 budget is not yet finalized we expect to return to a low double-digit growth rate in both revenue and diluted earnings per share for full year 2015.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores meaningful benefit from lower expenses and strong growth in financial services revenue.
We opened our final 6 new stores for the year during the third quarter including Barrie Ontario; Cheektowaga New York; Acworth Georgia; Nanaimo British Columbia; Tualatin Oregon; and Bowling Green Kentucky.
Looking forward to 2015 we've announced plans to open 14 stores including Fort Mill South Carolina and Berlin Massachusetts in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we plan to open Garner North Carolina; Sun Prairie Wisconsin; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; Oklahoma City Oklahoma; and Huntsville Alabama.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final 3 stores for the year in Bristol Virginia; Calgary Alberta Canada; and League City Texas the last of which we announced this morning.
With all locations for 2015 identified we continue to look for 2016 locations.
We've announced 3 stores to date including 1 this morning in Lexington Kentucky.
As Tommy mentioned we've been thrilled of the performance of our new stores that we opened in 2013 and so far in 2014.
With the 20 new format stores opened for at least a year we have a reasonable sample of performance data.
During 2014 we made significant progress in reducing both the construction and operating cost of these new stores.
As a result we expect these and future new stores to generate a sufficient return to shareholders at sales per square foot levels below the $450 per square foot we had assumed when the stores had opened.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 100 basis points to 36.3% from 37.3% in the same quarter a year ago.
Approximately 60 basis points of the decrease is due to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain operational promotion costs which totaled $4.9 million for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases financial services revenue and merchandise cost.
This new presentation will be ongoing and have no impact to consolidated operating income or earnings per diluted share.
Now turning to operating expense.
Operating expenses decreased by 1.5% during the quarter.
The decrease in expenses of approximately $4.7 million was primarily attributable to incentive compensation expense as well as other corporate overhead which were partially offset by new store expenses.
During the quarter due to not meeting our performance objectives we had negative incentive compensation expense of $11.8 million.
We did not expect this expense reduction to occur in the fourth quarter.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased 10.9% to $109.1 million.
The increases in financial services revenue is primarily due to a 7.5% increase in the average number of active accounts.
This account growth helped drive higher interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.0%.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 16 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.56%.
Additionally we continue to see favorable trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.70% as compared to 0.71% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were just 0.42% as compared to the same number a year ago.
And greater than 90-day delinquencies were just 0.22% as compared to 0.21% a year ago.
As mentioned in our second quarter call due mostly to continued portfolio growth we expected to increase the reserve for loan losses in the second half of the year.
In the third quarter we increased our reserve by $5.44 million.
We expect the increase in reserves in the fourth quarter to be between $1 million and $3 million.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization in the second quarter of 2015.
For the quarter financial services interest expense decreased to $16.2 million as compared to $17.1 million in the same quarter a year ago.
During the second quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the third quarter we incurred $958 000 of expenses primarily related to the transition to a third-party provider and closing of our current distribution center.
We expect to incur approximately $3 million of additional expenses related to this transition over the next 12 months.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 14.6% or $119 million year-over-year to $935 million.
Over the same period we've grown retail square footage by 19.0% with 16 new stores opened since Q3 of 2013.
Additionally we were very comfortable for quality of our inventory as we enter the fourth quarter and prepare for the holiday season as well as the new store openings ahead of us in 2015.
Our third quarter effective tax rate was 40.0% compared to 31.3% in the same quarter a year ago.
The increase in effective tax rate is related to an increase in tax reserves of $3.9 million related to prior year's matters and a change in the mix of taxable income between the United States and foreign tax jurisdictions.
Our fourth quarter 2014 effective tax rate is expected to be between 34.5% and 35.5%.
With our accelerated store growth plans we expect full year 2014 capital expenditures to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $225 million to $275 million.
Accordingly we expect to complete a small financing transaction in 2015 to fund future growth.
Now let me turn the call over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While it's clearly taken longer than anticipated for our business to rebound following the surge in firearms and ammunition we're confident in the strength of our company.
We are very encouraged by the performance of our new stores the growth in our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program the outstanding performance of our Cabela's branded products and our ability to manage expenses.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Well done team.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You've obviously done a good job in navigating a very tough environment but there's still a lot of uncertainty.
If we just focus on the near term first any more color on what's to happen in October? It sounds like it's improved a little bit since last quarter but if you can maybe quantify that or any more color would be helpful.
And in general given the volatility we've seen what gives you confidence in the ability to kind of get to that negative mid-single-digit range which is a nice sequential improvement? And then I'll have a follow-up question.
Well comps October-to-date are -- have improved to about down 8%.
So we're within shooting distance of mid-single-digit.
We have seen improvement across the complex and I would particularly call out ammo Seth.
That is much better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess there was an implication that you would be more promotional in the fourth quarter.
Is that part of what's contemplated in the improvement in comps? And should we also assume that the gross margin impact in the fourth quarter would imply worse gross margins or a bigger decline than the third quarter? Well we had always felt going back earlier this year that the fourth quarter not just in our space but throughout retail was going to be an absolute dogfight for the consumers' money.
So we had planned to be pretty aggressive in the fourth quarter both in price investment in increased media spend and also in some additional investment in our outfitters at the store level.
So when you put all that together we've gotten a little more aggressive but that should -- we think margins are going to be down very slightly in Q4.
We're not going to go crazy because we do see sequential improvement both in retail in comps and in the Direct business over the last 3 quarters.
I would add one other thing to your question about October-to-date.
It would be helpful to get some cold weather to help drive soft goods sales and we really haven't -- we haven't seen much of a break in weather.
When we have and in those locations where we have there has been a nice pick up in those stores where the weather got cold and wet.
So anything you can do to get a little colder weather would be appreciative.
Research Division</strong> I'll see what I can do.
[indiscernible] sticking on that...
Seth Ralph wanted to add a comment.
Well Seth I was going to give you a little bit more color on the categories and I don't know to what extent that's helpful.
But I mean our best category in the quarter which might have been a surprise was powersports.
Now that was helped a little bit by wildlife and land management but not much.
I mean powersports was very strong and by that I'd describe as it would have been flattish even after adjusting for wildlife and land management -- the new wildlife and land management sales.
And continues so into the fourth quarter.
Right.
And then in the -- if you look at what was bad obviously firearms and shooting were down kind of mid- to high-teens kind of numbers.
And what also was a disappointment was -- were the clothing categories.
Now everything else so footwear fishing camping home and gifts all those kind of categories optics surprisingly with the gun weakness were all down kind of the mid-single digit number that we expected.
And I don't know if the -- by the way I'm not blaming the clothing problem in the third quarter on weather but to Thomas' point earlier if we got some weather to help clothing sales that would make a meaningful improvement in our comp performance.
And as Tommy alluded to we're already seeing kind of down 8 kind of numbers as we start off the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful because I was going to ask about those non-shooting categories where you didn't see improvement in aggregate but it sounds like there are pockets of improvement within there.
But in the recent quarters you guys have talked a lot about the health of the consumer and that had been an issue that had been a concern for you guys.
And I guess I'm just wondering like what's the updated view on the consumer from your perspective? Do you feel like your category is still top of mind? Or do you feel like maybe there's some wallet share shifts that maybe impacting some of those non-shooting categories? Or is it simply an attachment issue? You had a lot of traffic over the last year and you're just anniversary-ing some of that still? I mean how do we think about that? Well just by example ammo in the third quarter of last year comped up 39% and in the Direct business about 36%.
We thought when we were on the last call that we would be able to achieve that in spite of the slower than -- the slower start in July.
So -- and that was really a function of filling those back-ordered items in ammo in the third quarter.
Obviously the gun comp in the third quarter it kind of mitigated itself and we weren't up against huge huge numbers like we were in ammo.
Our view on the consumer really is -- I mean we hear a lot of stuff like you do but we're trying to ignore that and just look at the behavior of our customer.
They haven't left us.
That's the really great news.
What they are doing and these are both our core-retained customers and those customers we got during the surge they are visiting us a little less frequently versus a year ago probably not a big surprise.
And what is interesting is that they -- our sell-through on promoted items both in Direct and Retail was significantly higher than a year ago which tells us that the customer -- we still have the customer.
We're still top of their mind but they are very value-focused at least they were in the third quarter.
Because our sell-through on promoted items was meaningfully higher than the year-ago period.
So they're looking for value and deal and we intend on giving it to them in the fourth quarter.
And we will now go to Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The -- so branded product penetration up 100 basis points so that includes the mix benefit of lower gun and ammo sales.
So what would be the increase in comparable categories across soft lines and hard lines for branded product? Yes.
I got that Mark.
If you look at clothing we're -- I mean we are pleased that clothing was up 60 basis points General Outdoors was up about 140 and hunting was actually -- hunting which largely includes firearms and ammunition was down about 40% largely attributable to ammunition being down in that category.
So we are pleased that both General Outdoors and Softgoods were up pretty meaningfully in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And so the Cabela's brand obviously has great technical specs and you've been pushing the price points higher to better and best but given your comments Tommy about the value-focused consumer might there be a risk that that moderate customer segment especially is viewing the store as more expensive? I mean is there anything you're doing from a customer research standpoint? Or just evaluating those risk? I mean how do you know that the store is not kind of moving away from the value orientation of some customers? Well obviously that's something Mark that we think a lot about and as we reflect back on the quarter Instinct camo which is a competitor for a high-end brand like Sitka performed really well.
And opening price point product performed pretty well.
So we're working really hard on the middle of the assortment.
I don't feel like and I don't think our merchants feel like we've gotten past our customer in terms of price point but it's something we pay very close attention to.
And remember that 60% or about of our total assortment is mapped price national branded merchandise where they're really in the chance to push the envelope.
And we will now go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we could think about the last question a little differently and get -- to get some insight on how the consumer is behaving you mentioned powersports being strong and then unlike -- it includes the whole Instinct -- the new Instinct product line.
How are customers looking at that? And how does that fit in with your view of the customer looking at value? Because some of the Land Management products are tens of thousands of dollars.
What's behind the strength in that? Well not just the Land Management products Chuck but boats have been and continue to be very strong.
Big-ticket items the car business is really good and you know that from where you live.
And boats have been really really good and wildlife and land management is gaining a nice traction.
So the consumer doesn't appear to be afraid to buy big-ticket items.
And I think it's important to put Instinct camo and all of its affiliated products in perspective.
It is a fractionally small part of the very top of our assortment in camouflage clothing and shouldn't be indicative of any broader view of the category or our pricing strategy.
I just noted in the prior question that it's off to a really nice start and we're very pleased.
The consumer though is -- it's quite interesting to say the least that they're buying real promotional items in hardgoods and softgoods and yet they're splurging on boats and tractors and they're buying cars and trucks.
And by the way Chuck to not overplay this when I talk about powersports being strong that is 95% boats.
I mean boats is what's driving that business.
And we've been really pleased with it.
The impact of wildlife and land management on the powersports category is not significant.
That's a big deal.
Boats is what's driving that category.
Got you.
And looking at your guidance for the fourth quarter it's been revised downward.
How would you characterize the fact that you've got 14 new stores ready for the holiday season in that forecast? Well I don't know.
We've been -- I mean we've been really pleased with how our new stores have performed particularly some of the bigger ones.
We obviously considered that as we are coming up with our forecast for the fourth quarter.
But one of the bright spots has really been some of those new stores have performed.
And that then...
Let me -- perhaps one other thing just to comment on.
As you know there's been an awful lot of discussion and even concern about the impact of competitors in the space would have on us and I guess on each other by definition.
We pay very close attention to that.
And it was interesting in the third quarter competitors opened 11 new stores that were near our comp stores.
And it -- they had no meaningful impact on comp performance those stores versus the rest of the stores in the comp base.
So for all the talk about square footage expansion where we saw it it had no meaningful effect at all.
Slightly to the contrary cannibalization we had 4 stores that were directly cannibalized by new next-generation stores.
They were Hamburg Pennsylvania our biggest store which was impacted by Christiana and we expected that.
And then Rogers Minnesota and Owatonna Minnesota in the Twin Cities were clearly impacted by Woodbury.
Again not a surprise for us.
And lastly in Canada we opened a second store in Edmonton because our Edmonton store was doing so much business that we needed a second store to relieve pressure on the bigger store and obviously there was cannibalization there.
But even against the total comp base the impact was less than 100 basis points.
So we affected ourselves competition didn't seem to affect us at all.
And just to finish up my question and make sure I understood Ralph's answer.
So the guidance for the fourth quarter includes the benefit of having the class of '14 stores open ahead of the quarter? Yes.
And we will now go to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just I wanted to turn to the cost side for a minute.
Outside of the incentive comp declines that you guys outlined could you just take us through some of the other areas where you were able to cut expenses in the quarter? Yes.
After incentive comp which is by far the biggest the next biggest category was just salary and wages and that was really -- as we give the comment to how our outfitters have been doing that's just a great example of where we have tried to reduce labor across the company.
Obviously some of that's the retail store level with lower comp store sales but that is by far the next biggest piece.
Then the rest of it quite frankly is largely just nips and naps [ph] around the rest of the company the rest of the line items from the P&amp;L.
Almost none of it interestingly enough is advertising.
We've tried to maintain advertising at really high levels despite the tough sales.
So Matt our teams have been really disciplined about not just hiring another person but trying to do more with less and trying to prioritize what needs to be done in the company.
And that's why I went out of my way to thank everybody because it's really been a team effort and they've really done a great job.
By the way Matt one area that continues to go the wrong direction is fraud losses in our card business.
I mean that's -- that is -- it's several million dollars over our original budget in the quarter.
And that's a function of the number of breaches that are occurring at other retailers around the United States.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then sticking with that same topic.
As we look at 2015 how should we think about SG&amp;A growth -- dollar growth next year? And historically it's tracked your footage growth pretty closely.
This year it was obviously an anomaly.
Should we expect that it sort of migrates back up into the mid-teens from a growth rate standpoint? Yes.
I mean we don't think about it as correlated to square footage.
We think about it more as correlated to total revenue which by the way now is getting closer as retail becomes a bigger piece of our business.
But we're thinking about it in line with total revenue growth.
And it will be at or slightly below those levels.
Obviously the big challenge for '15 for us is we'd like for a whole bunch of reasons to introduce a big chunk of that incentive comp expense back into the base and we'll have to overcome that.
But there are some things working for us too things like we expect to get these fraud losses under control in 2015 and in the full year benefit a lot of the expense initiatives we've put in '14 will help us offset some of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I assume your comment about double-digit growth next year includes the benefit of the extra week.
Can you give us any detail on how much that has benefited you historically from a top and bottom line standpoint? Yes.
I probably won't quantify it at this time but we had absolutely included the effect of the week.
From a top line standpoint it's somewhere around -- yes somewhere -- I don't know it's reasonably significant.
We'll quantify it more on our year-end call.
Interesting from a bottom line standpoint most -- it's not that significant because most of those -- most of our expense base is measured weekly so you've got additional payroll and all those other kinds of things that go in with it.
So from a bottom line perspective I don't expect it to be that accretive.
I mean it's tens of millions of dollars of revenue.
And we will now go to Steve Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just in terms of thinking about the merchant margin decline in the third quarter sort of x those accounting adjustments can you talk about what drove that? Was it more mix shift? Do you think there's a little bit more of the promotions you're talking about in the quarter that did that? Well I would -- I mean I -- it's mainly just an effort of try to deal with a tough business.
I mean if you think -- if you look at margins in at least a couple of key categories actually in guns they were not down all that significantly.
They were down year-over-year.
We saw a bigger decline in ammunition although not as big a decline as we had in previous quarters.
So...
Steve you may not have been on the call earlier but a comment I made to an earlier question was that we did see a significant increase in the sell-through of items that were promoted which really gets to the effect of that fact on overall merch margins as being a factor.
Research Division</strong> Understood so that's the bigger driver.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so that probably continues a bit.
Understood.
And I guess is -- was that comment sort of on the Direct business as well? The margins there looked a little bit light to us.
In other words the promotional activity is kind of permeated in the channel? Yes.
I don't -- we've talked about in the aggregate.
Absolutely.
Yes because my comments about sell-through on promoted items related to the whole enterprise not just retail or direct separately.
Because we have an omni-channel approach to promoting for the most part.
And so when we get sharp it's across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And here you are talking about October has gotten a little bit better.
Any -- do you sort of care to opine on sort of the hunting season thus far and your expectations for how that might go and whether maybe customers are out there shooting through some of that ammunition hoard that obviously has been impacting results? Well I noted that ammo was definitely better in the month of October thus far.
I would say hunting is -- as witnessed by the improvement in comps hunting is better.
It would sure be great to get some cold weather to really light up heavy outerwear products and packed foods and those kinds of things.
But it will.
I mean I don't know what the temperature is where you are but it's supposed to be 80 degrees in Sidney today and that's pretty unusual for us.
So we could use some cold weather but I'm sure it's coming.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And lastly for me just in thinking about how SG&amp;A might evolve next year could you quantify for us sort of what year-to-date the incentive comp expense is actually down year-on-year? Well I'll give you the full year number.
Last year it was for the -- this is for the full year not for 9 months it was $36 million.
And it's -- we don't expect it to be significant in 2014 for the full year.
And we will now go to David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Lynda in for David.
First could you guys give us some puts and takes on the upcoming holiday season? From what perspective? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess from being prepared for the consumer with thoughts along those lines.
Yes.
We're going to be pretty aggressive ahead of Black Friday through Black Friday.
And we think that Cyber Monday week is going to be significant.
And we've taken a bunch of steps in the last 2 years to invest in our omni capability.
And literally in a matter of days we will have simplified checkout on cabelas.com which is a two-click checkout and has been a big initiative to just make it easier for the customer to get through checkout.
And then to relieve stress in our retail stores they have handheld mobile devices similar to what you would see in an Apple Store that allows checkout on the spot not going through a register.
And that capability is imminent in a matter of days.
And again we want to make the customer experience during the holidays very seamless.
But we think it's going to be very competitive in retail period and are prepared for it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding the comp growth this quarter.
Do you guys think it was primarily driven by ammo versus some sort of share loss in the period? Well yes.
I think ammo was a leading contributor and softness in softgoods excluding footwear was definitely a contributor offset by the businesses Ralph mentioned earlier that performed to our expectations coming into the quarter like fishing camping powersports optics and footwear which I mentioned.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly are there any more additional private label products coming in for the fourth quarter? Or are they already in the stores? No they're already in the stores.
We set our fall back in August and September.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you -- would you expect similar private label -- the percentage growth that we saw this quarter would you expect something similar in the fourth quarter? Or kind of stay at the same level? Yes.
I mean I think we would expect nice growth in Cabela's branded products in the fourth quarter and going into next year.
And we will now go to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
This is Nick in for Rick.
Wondering on the 40% to 60% outperformance in sales and profit per square foot in new stores versus legacy I'm wondering if that's apples-to-apples.
So the legacy stores they have more total square feet because of allocation of scenery.
But when we compare selling space in legacy to selling space in new stores are the new stores still driving more sales per square foot? Is it -- and is it about the same ratio? And if so what's driving that? Is it the location itself being less of a destination and more of a retail-centric environment? Well let me -- I'll help you do the math.
But as a general -- as a very general rule selling square feet relative to total square feet in our newer stores versus our old stores is about 10 points higher.
So they used to be about 60% and now they're moving up to about 70%.
So you could do the math and you'd quickly see that although what you identified is part of the reason there's clearly more than just the difference between selling and non-selling square feet that's driving that.
And I'd tell you the biggest -- I mean the 2 I -- in sort of order of importance probably the most important thing is they're just smaller stores and better sized for the market.
The next most important thing is probably that ratio of non-selling to selling square footage.
And then thirdly is they're in better locations.
Okay great.
And then you guys are -- it's $460 per square foot for those new stores.
I mean  is that sustainable for those same stores going into next year? Or do you see -- I mean does that trail off...
Well the actual number I think it's $457 a square foot if you round to the nearest dollar.
And look it's going to a lot depend on what happens to the comp as we move through these years.
I mean our expectation clearly is we're going to see a comp that will moderate more significantly over time and that will be at a sustainable level.
Now that doesn't mean it doesn't go down before it goes up just we've already said comps is going to be down in the fourth quarter.
Having said that -- and it's part of what helped that number this quarter there's some really exciting stores that we've opened that are going to move into that number over time once they anniversary -- the 1-year anniversary of their opening date.
So we're really pleased with some of the new stores we've opened.
Interestingly enough if you were to make a very general statement about our store performance and this is a little bit counterintuitive but the bigger the store the better it's done.
So the stores that Tommy mentioned in this script Anchorage Cheektowaga Christiana I mean those stores are just doing really well and are some of the biggest stores we opened in 2014.
And we will now go to Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So shot over the bow here I'm going to come right at you with these questions.
So first business has been more difficult than you'd expected clearly.
With the benefit of hindsight is there anything you could have done differently to see this coming? I'm not really sure Jim.
We really thought that ammo and guns in August and September would come out of the surge quicker and they didn't.
It is encouraging to me that we are seeing ammo improve really nicely thus far in October to a much better trend line.
I think the real surprise was just the performance of the softgoods complex in the third quarter in July August and September.
There was just softness there.
And with -- when we start looking at detail by category from women's base layer to logo wear from men's casual shirts to bottoms there doesn't appear to be any common denominator.
It was just a pretty tough quarter in the softgoods complex which really hurt us and we didn't see that coming.
Jim I'll -- just I said this at the end of the second quarter too.
If you go back a year the 2 things we probably underappreciated was how far ammo would fall.
We were -- we had the belief that since there are way more guns in the world today than there were 2 and 3 years ago that they would need more ammo and ammo will be stronger than it was and we probably didn't understand as well as we should have the attachment rate to other parts of the store.
Now having said that and I'll share with you a couple of more specific numbers.
If I go back to the fourth quarter of last year guns were down 20 -- a little more over 25%.
Men's apparel was up 14%.
So as I'm thinking about 2014 the fact that you would think that -- and I remember bragging that up as being pretty pleased with it.
So having an expectation that gun comps would be strong -- or gun comps would be weak and clothing would still be flattish seemed like a reasonable assumption.
Now as we moved into the third quarter of '12 we're looking at firearms down 17% but the men's apparel down 12%.
I'm not sure I know how we could have expected that phenomenon as you look back 9 months ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
So part of the basis to the line of questioning is given the number of new stores you're opening it's really important to know you guys have your arms around the business and can forecast it with some degree of accuracy.
What can you say that gives us more confidence that you have a better view going forward? Well I think the fact that we're seeing sequential improvement not sequential deterioration.
And I think we have a better sense of the rate of sequential improvement maybe more realistically that this is just taking a little longer and we thought it would happen more rapidly.
And I think that really gets at the core of the issue.
Jim I really appreciate the directness of your question.
And it is -- just an observation though our new stores from a revenue perspective are actually coming in pretty close to what our expectations were particularly to my earlier comments the bigger...
Despite all this macroeconomic noise.
As far as the comp goes I mean we're in a little bit of uncharted territory on coming out of this huge bubble that we had.
But we feel good about our predictability to the performance of new stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Here's part of the challenge guys.
So the performance of those new stores has been slipping.
The comp guidance suggests it hasn't yet found the bottom.
You're going to be borrowing money to open new stores.
What can you say to give shareholders confidence that that's a good decision? I just continue to look at those at the per square footage performance of those stores combined with the fact that we've taken a bunch of costs out of the business that we feel confident they can hit our projections.
I mean I don't know what other color I can add to that.
The new stores we now have -- 20 of those new stores have been opened for 12 months or longer and are doing $457 a foot on a lower construction cost base than we originally assumed and lower operating expenses across the entire company.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So you pro forma them at $450? What type of sales per square foot could you do and still see the returns that you need? Well I'm not -- we're still thinking about that a lot but it's easier to believe it could be 5% to 10% or less.
And we'll now go to Andrew Burns with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Thinking about the promotional cadence elevating into the fourth quarter how temporary do you view this in terms of the change in strategy given the strong consumer response that you saw in 3Q? Is this sort of a change in strategy that could potentially continue into 2015? And what would cause you to pull back on the promotion pedal? Is it just function of the consumer environment working through excess inventory? Well we're not really working through excess inventory.
That's not an issue and it's really just responding to the consumer environment.
And as we get into 2015 obviously we'll monitor that throughout the year and act appropriately.
If conditions would warrant an easing of the accelerator we will.
If we need to be more promotional we will as well.
Research Division</strong> And you talked about retention of some of the new surge-related customers declining a bit.
How do you think about this long term? What can you do to improve retention? How will this -- do you think it will progress into 2015? Well we would hope to see stabilization in 2015 and that's certainly the goal.
We think our contact strategy with the customers we retained -- that we attracted during the surge is pretty solid.
Both email catalog retail circular and email campaigns they seem to be working.
And it's interesting that our newly-acquired customers are behaving very similarly to the core retained customer in terms of a few less visits and being slightly more promotional.
And we will now go to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
This is Shannon Richter on for Mark Smith.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Can you quantify how much of the decline in merchandise margin was due to promotional activity? No.
We don't really break it out that way but it's very -- it's slight.
Okay.
And then just one other question.
Can you give us a rough outlook for taxes next year? We'll update you more on that on the next call.
I'm not sure we're prepared to give full year guidance for next year.
I mean although just as a general comment we expect if you go look at our rate reconciliation we expect state income taxes to continue to go up over time as we expand into more states and we expect the benefit of allocation of foreign country to be smaller over time.
And we'll take our next question from Lee Giordano with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little more specifically about inventory levels in the firearms channel? I know there was some issues with distributors having more inventory than expected in the back half of the year.
And then also is promotional activity in firearms a little bit above your expectations relative to the rest of the store? Lee inventories -- our inventories in guns are in very good shape.
We have -- whatever slight excess we had in modern sporting rifles I think the guys feel pretty good about where we are in those categories right now.
Ammunition inventories have improved with the exception of rimfire which remains tight and very spotty.
So from an inventory standpoint in guns and ammo we feel really good about where we are.
What we hear anecdotally is that there remain pockets within guns at the wholesale distributors and certain handguns and in modern sporting rifles that are still pretty high and I think may take all the way through 2015 for the wholesalers to work through.
And I mean you'll obviously get a better read from Smith &amp; Wesson and Ruger who are both public companies who report on that.
So what we are hearing is more anecdotal.
To your question about margin rates in guns and ammo they are down a little bit but I would say moderating.
They're not by any stretch in a free fall.
They are clearly moderating to a normal promotional cadence of us having guns and ammunition back in circulars ammo back in catalogs and the like.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just a follow-up on average ticket.
You mentioned it's up slightly in the quarter I think 2%.
Is there any particular category that driving that? Or is it pretty broad-based? Pretty broad-based.
And we will now go to Anthony Lebiedzinski with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could perhaps quantify the cannibalization effect that you guys mentioned in your prepared remarks.
Yes.
You've -- I'll go over it again.
It's slightly less than 100 basis points on the consolidated comp slightly less than -- around 100 basis points.
And it's really the result of 4 stores which is Christiana on Hamburg; Woodbury Minnesota in the Twin Cities on Rogers Minnesota and Owatonna; and then the second store in Edmonton on -- the North store on the South Edmonton store.
We -- those were not surprises.
That has performed to about what we thought would happen.
But clearly in the Woodbury store we sealed up our position in the Twin Cities and obviously gaining share in Christiana.
The issue in Edmonton was a different one.
I think as we've mentioned on prior calls we were doing so much business in the South Edmonton store that it came to a point of just too much business and we needed to release that pressure with the store up North in Edmonton.
And it's accomplished that albeit with some cannibalization.
But that was as expected.
You may not have been on the call but from a competitive incursion there were 11 new competitors who opened stores near our stores.
There was no effect.
No meaningful effect.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
Yes I didn't hear the store commentary earlier.
It's just that I didn't hear the exact actually cannibalization effect so that's helpful color.
Just wondering if you could just talk about as far as firearms any significant differences between handguns and long guns in the quarter? No not meaningful.
I think what is interesting is we continue as we mentioned in the last call to see light return in shotguns.
They continue to have good life good -- I mean a good resurgence.
And hunting long guns are in reasonably good shape.
The softness continues to be in certain handguns and in modern sporting rifles to no surprise.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And also with the consumer responding more to promoted items are you shifting your promotions actually to focus more on higher margin categories such as apparel for example? No I wouldn't say that.
We're trying to put an offering out there at pricing that will attract customers to our stores and to our website.
It's not just an apparel focus.
It's not a shift of strategy of where we're promoting.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And also you mentioned earlier that the -- your larger stores around 100 000 square feet are doing better like Christiana Delaware for example Anchorage Alaska.
So just wondering how should we think about store size? And just this morning you announced 2 new store openings in the 70 000 to 72 000 square-foot range.
So what's the right way that we should be thinking about store size in the upcoming years? Well there's no question.
And some of this goes back to Jim's question which is a good one.
But in the past we've opened stores that are 180 000 and 40 000 square feet.
We found the 40 000 square feet quite frankly just not big enough to give our customers the selection that they're expecting.
So we're going to see the 40s move up to 50s and try to just mainly drive a little bit more efficiencies we're going to see the 180s move down to 90s and 70s.
And it's interesting as you look forward to the store opening scheduled for next year we all have one 40 000 square-foot store that we're opening next year in Ammon Idaho.
All the rest of them to your point are kind of in that 80 000 a couple of them still being opened in the 100 000 square-foot range and that's basically the 90-plus boats and tractors.
So we're clearly taking the smaller stores which are working the least well and making them bigger because we think we've identified selection as the main problem with those stores and then bringing down the size of the bigger stores just a little bit to try to get it more efficient.
So that's another reason we expect to have a lot of confidence in the stores we open in 2015.
And we will take our last question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
A follow-up.
How are your vendors working with you on the promotional merchandising you have set for the quarter? Chuck that's a real positive.
Our vendors have just been phenomenal in supporting our initiatives both in the third quarter and certainly now in the critical fourth quarter.
So that's a shining light that it's really encouraging.
They've really stepped up.
So they are willing to eat some margin to help you move product? They're being very supportive.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Millner at this time I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
We thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking to everyone soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.