Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
While we were pleased with the strong performance of our new stores growth of market share in most of our major merchandise categories and continued strong performance of Cabela's CLUB there were several factors that kept us from meeting our expectations in the quarter primarily larger investments in advertising and promotion combined with higher-than-expected redemption rates of certain promotions lead to earnings below our original expectations.
While these factors kept us from meeting our expectations we could not be more pleased with our ability to take market share and build the strength of our brand throughout the quarter.
First let's discuss customer shopping cadence and what transpired in regard to marketing and promotions during the quarter.
From a customer shopping perspective we saw relatively strong consumer demand ahead of Black Friday and our promotional marketing was largely in line with our expectations.
As we moved through the quarter transactions softened and we began to see a more promotional retail environment.
We reacted by adjusting our promotional and marketing plans.
Throughout the second half of the quarter we added promotions and marketing events in certain periods which originally had fewer promotions planned.
In addition to our increased advertising and promotional spend customers took advantage of certain promotions at significantly higher rates than we have historically experienced.
The higher redemption rate contributed to a meaningful increase in promotional cost and a decline in merchandise gross margin.
While redemption rates varied amongst promotional offers we expect redemption rates to trend higher than we have previously experienced and have adjusted our 2015 marketing and promotional plans accordingly.
For the quarter comp store sales decreased 5.5% which represents the third straight quarter of sequential improvement.
During the quarter we were particularly pleased with the performance of our powersports and ammunition categories both of which comped positively.
Quarter-to-date performance has been encouraging as comparable store sales are down less than 1% through the first 6 weeks of the year with encouraging performance in powersports ammunition hunting equipment fishing camping and optics.
For the quarter Direct revenue decreased 5.4% as a result of a greater-than-expected decline in ammunition and other shooting-related categories as well as the impact of cannibalization from our new retail stores.
As our retail and stock levels of ammunition have improved we have seen customers shift back to making these purchases in our retail stores.
For example comparable store sales for ammunition were slightly positive as compared to direct sales of ammunition which were down double digits as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
We had several bright spots in the quarter with Direct sales growth in hunting equipment powersports optics and women's and children's apparel.
We continue to be very excited about improvements to our omni-channel model.
And during the quarter we made further progress by enhancing customer experience with streamlined checkout.
Now let's discuss new store performance.
For the full year of 2014 the 18 next-generation stores that were opened for the full period had sales per square foot of nearly $450 outperforming our legacy store base by roughly 43%.
Additionally these same stores outperformed our legacy base by approximately 59% in profit per square foot over the same period.
We have intentionally excluded the smaller 40 000 square foot stores previously referred to as Outpost stores as they have underperformed our expectations.
Similar to our efforts to improve legacy store performance in 2009 we have a dedicated team in place to analyze small store productivity to improve performance and profitability within these stores.
Therefore following the opening of our Ammon Idaho store we are not planning on opening any Outpost stores as we reevaluate the profitability and return on capital of these stores.
It is important to note all of these smaller stores are cash flow-positive and we have no plans to close any of the existing stores.
Of our 64 stores only 8 are Outpost stores and they represent just 4.8% of our total retail square footage.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our next-generation stores and are particularly pleased with the results in Christiana Delaware; Tualatin Oregon and our new stores in Canada which continued to produce strong results.
The exceptional performance of these new stores continues to give us great confidence in our future store openings with our 2015 store openings marking our entrance into many highly anticipated markets.
Now let's take a look at our Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7.3% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 12.1% to nearly $4.2 billion.
Cabela's CLUB members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Cabela's CLUB revenue increased 9.9% to $113.3 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to interest and fee income as well as interchange income.
We continued to see favorable delinquency and charge-off trends.
Charge-offs remained at extremely low levels and were just 1.74% in the quarter and were just 1.69% for the full year a new record low.
During the quarter we were able to grow market share in almost all of our major merchandise categories.
We are pleased with our ability to grow share during the quarter and further pleased we have seen this trend continue into the first quarter of 2015.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
While we took a more aggressive approach to promotions than originally planned we are pleased with market share gains new store performance and solid growth at Cabela's CLUB.
As a result we expect to return to a low double-digit growth rate in revenue and a high single-digit to low double-digit growth rate in diluted earnings per share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Additionally we expect Q1 2015 diluted earnings per share to be roughly in line with the first quarter a year ago.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized strong performance from our new stores growth of market share in most of our major merchandise categories and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 150 basis points to 35.1% from 36.6% in the same quarter a year ago.
Increased sales discounts contributed 120 basis points to the decline as we became more aggressive with promotional activity during the quarter.
The remainder of the decline was attributable to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain promotional costs which totaled $5.1 million or 50 basis points for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases Financial Services revenue and merchandise cost.
This new presentation will be ongoing and has no impact in consolidated operating income or earnings per diluted share.
Increased sales discounts and the presentation change were slightly offset by increased vendor support and lower shipping expense.
Now turning to operating expenses.
For the quarter we continue to tightly manage operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased 10% while revenue increased 7.2%.
Excluding market and advertising expense operating expenses increased at a mid single-digit rate.
This increase is due to new store expenses which were partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense and tight expense management across the enterprise.
We continue to be pleased with our next-generation store performance.
For 2015 we have announced plans to open 13 new stores including Fort Mill South Carolina; and Berlin Massachusetts in the first quarter.
In the second quarter we plan to open Garner North Carolina; Sun Prairie Wisconsin; Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; and Oklahoma City Oklahoma.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final 3 stores for the year at Huntsville Alabama; Bristol Virginia; and Calgary Alberta Canada.
These 13 stores represent roughly 1 million square feet of retail space or a 14.6% increase in square footage.
With all locations for 2015 identified we continue to look for 2016 locations and announced 5 stores to date.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 9.9% to $113 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 17% increase in interest and fee income and a 7% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 7.3% in the quarter to 1.3 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.1% to approximately $4.2 billion.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 2 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.74%.
Additionally we continued to see favorable trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.68% as compared to 0.69% a year ago greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.41% as compared to 0.42% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.22% as compared to the same number a year ago.
During the quarter we increased our reserve for loan losses by $3.9 million.
For 2015 due to continued portfolio growth we expect to increase the reserve between $5 million and $10 million for the full year.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2015.
For the quarter Financial Services interest expense decreased to $16.3 million as compared to $17 million in the same quarter a year ago.
During the quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution -- or during the second quarter we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the fourth quarter we incurred an additional $775 000 of expenses related primarily to the transition to our third-party provider and the closing of our distribution center.
We expect to incur approximately $2 million of additional expense related to the transition over the next 12 months.
With our accelerating store growth plans we expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
Accordingly we expect to complete a financing transaction in the first half of this year to fund future growth.
Before returning the call over to Tommy let me provide a little more detail on our expectations.
Recall that 2015 is a 53-week year.
This extra week will be recognized in the fourth quarter and is expected to add $60 million to $70 million in merchandise revenue.
Financial Services revenue is not impacted as they report on a true calendar basis.
Due to the expected financing transaction in 2015 we expect to have an additional $3 million to $5 million of incremental interest expense for the year.
Additionally for full year 2015 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of $25 million to $30 million compared to full year 2014.
Recall third quarter 2014 operating expenses benefited from the reversal of incentive compensation that was accrued in the first half of 2014.
As a result we expect this to be an operating expense headwind in the third quarter of '15.
I'd like to point out 2 other items that do not affect consolidated income or earnings per share.
First in the second quarter of 2014 our merchandise business received a special onetime license fee from Cabela's CLUB in the amount of $11 million.
This license fee increased profitability in our merchandising segments and decreased profitability in our Financial Services segment.
We do not expect this license fee to recur in 2015.
Secondly we expect the adjustment in the presentation of the reimbursement for the Financial Services business and the Merchandise business for certain promotional costs to be roughly $4.3 million or 75 basis points in the first quarter of 2015.
We anniversary this change in presentation in the second quarter of 2015.
Additionally we'll be hosting our Analyst Day on Wednesday March 4.
With this event being just 3 weeks from now we do not intend to provide an update to our guidance prior to or at this event.
Now let me turn the call back over to the Tommy for some comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While earnings fell short of our expectations we are encouraged by the performance of our next-generation stores increases in market share our ability to manage expenses and the growth of our Cabela's CLUB loyalty program.
We are taking steps to continue enhancements of our marketing and promotional strategies.
As a result we expect improving sales growth and earnings as we move through 2015.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our Outfitters for cherishing and delighting our customers each and every day.
Well done you guys.
With that operator let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question first on the quarter-to-date trend so running down 1% for the first 6 weeks.
Maybe a little bit more context around that.
Is it being promotionally driven? Have you maintained the same level of discounting as you saw in the fourth quarter? And I guess in general when you think about the earnings guidance for the year what are you embedding in there in terms of further promotional activity and the implications on gross margins? Seth it's Tommy.
Let me talk about -- give you some context behind the first quarter as it relates to the fourth and then Ralph can touch on the guidance implications.
Almost by definition January in any year is less promotional than the frenetic events of November and December and Black Friday and Christmas.
So specifically we are less promotional than we were in the fourth quarter and only -- and slightly more promotional than we were in the first 6 or 7 weeks of last year.
I think we are cautiously encouraged looking forward that we're seeing strength in some categories that normally aren't really strong this time of year like powersports camping hunting equipment.
Ammunition continues its improvements.
So those categories -- and fishing has been a good category thus far this year -- give us some cautious optimism as we come into 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess a related issue on the advertising and other expenses this quarter which seem to be a little bit different than expectations.
Any more color on that? Maybe you could quantify what the impact was and how you're thinking about advertising as you look to 2015.
How much of that was opportunistic in the fourth quarter? Do you think it continues at the same level in 2015? I'm just trying to figure that out because the reality is you guys did a great job on managing expenses in 2014.
As comps improve the flow-through should be improving.
And so I think we're just trying to figure out how that shapes up.
Yes understand.
First on expense management it's a really good thing that this muscle that we developed starting about 18 months ago if you remember really did help us in the full year 2014 because against a backdrop of a really tough year coming off the surge we still realized a 9.3% operating margin for the full year.
And look we certainly had challenges in the fourth quarter but we feel pretty good about being able to hold that.
Let me give you some color on the fourth quarter.
We felt like when we talked to you guys in October that it was going to be a promotional environment and we felt pretty good about our November and December promotional cadence.
And as we started getting into November it became very clear that it sure felt like there was a lot less consumer disposable income and retailers mostly outside of our space really started cranking up offers to the point that some were almost ridiculous weeks ahead of Black Friday.
And we just felt like to protect our franchise and to maybe be opportunistic and take share we had to jump in to the fight.
And what that meant was it took more discounts as the consumer was very promotionally minded in the quarter.
So it was a combination of more promotions.
And with digital and social media and affiliate networks the consumer has gotten much more efficient at using the discounts that we give them and that's really the story.
The big impact -- we had a little bit of impact from a reserve-release -- a reserve increase at the CLUB.
But the most of the downdraft came from additional discount expense and some advertising to go along with it but it's mostly discounts.
One other point and then I'll let somebody else ask a question.
As our customers use these additional discounts their indexing across categories was pretty much in line with history.
There was no meaningful over or under indexing across categories.
It pretty much stayed true to history but it was a wickedly competitive environment.
We used our leadership position to get in the fight which a lot of our competitors can't and that was kind of the story of the quarter.
Seth as it relates to the first quarter you asked about advertising spend in the first quarter.
It is -- and some of this is just really the law of small numbers.
If you look at it as a percent it'll be up I don't know a fair amount.
But when you look at it just in absolute dollars it is just a few million dollars of increase year-over-year is sort of what our expectation is in the first quarter.
We'll take our next question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> It's Molly Iarocci on for Jim.
Just have a couple of questions for you.
First can you speak to the makeup of comp specifically looking at your traffic trends? We're trying to figure out if you're continuing to see challenges and what this would be a function of: competition difficult compares with ammo-driven traffic last year.
Transactions were down 6.6% on a down 5.5% comp.
What other color can I give you? Here I'll provide some additional color.
When you look at the comp there were a few components in there that I guess were interesting to me.
First of all and this isn't a huge number but about 40 or 50 basis points of the comp was actually foreign currency translation in Canada just on the conversion.
And then there was probably another 150 or 200 basis points of the comp was due to cannibalization.
And we could talk about -- I'm sorry cannibalization of our own stores.
And where those markets are not surprisingly is we opened in Portland so we're cannibalizing against our store in Eugene Springfield.
We opened a second store in Edmonton.
We've got a third store in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul marketplace so there's 2 stores there you're cannibalizing off of.
And our store in Christiana that Tommy talked about as doing really well has cannibalized our Hamburg store.
So if you want more color on the comp that is some.
And obviously Tommy gave you the numbers for traffic versus ticket.
Obviously all those things affected traffic.
I don't have them broken out.
I don't have the traffic broken out between cannibalized and non-cannibalized stores.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And are you seeing traffic trends improve in the first 6 weeks of the first quarter versus fourth quarter? Or are they kind of -- is the breakdown relatively the same? Yes they're better.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a little shift in topic to real estate.
So you talked about how you are reevaluating your Outpost strategy.
Any additional color on that would be great.
Just what you're seeing that wasn't work where your focus is now going toward and then if you're still considering opening the 14 to 15 stores in fiscal '16.
And then in addition to that are you considering any other new strategies for example a sale leaseback strategy even if it's just a few stores to highlight the embedded value in the real estate? That was a bunch of questions there.
First of all I'll talk about our Outpost stores.
I mean those stores by the way are still doing really well.
And if you looked at the sales per square foot in those stores I mean they are below our big -- our next-generation stores but they would still be very enviable sales per square foot based from what some of our competitors are and they still do better than our older legacy stores for example.
But what we've got to spend a little bit of time thinking about is how can we continue to drive down construction costs of those stores and how can we run them better.
I mean our expertise is not running smaller low-volume stores.
We've got to spend a little bit of time thinking through that issue.
So we still think there's a bright future for smaller stores.
I'm not sure it needs to be as small as the 40 000 square feet that we talked about.
So anyway that's kind of -- I know Tommy has got some additional comments.
And we have -- we've assigned as I mentioned in the script a group of our best talent on a cross functional basis to look at operating cost assortments and construction cost which report to Ralph to figure out -- it's not a sales problem.
Our sales per foot are higher than what our public competitors report their stores to do.
It's more of a cost issue they cost a little bit too much to build and a little bit too much to operate.
And I think the work that went into improving our legacy stores when I got here 6 years ago is the same level of expectation that we have.
As we look to 2016 openings Ralph can comment on how we think that would affect.
Yes.
Just as we look forward to 2016 I would tell you first of all as far as number of stores it will still be something around 14 stores.
Although I'll tell you I'm way more focused on making sure we get really good stores than making sure we hit 14.
I mean you'll notice -- and it's actually because we had a deal slip but we're only doing I think 13 in 2015.
So we want to get the best stores we can to be somewhere between 900 000 and 1 million square feet.
But if we ended up at 850 000 I sure wouldn't lose any sleep about it if we felt really good about the quality the stores that we open.
Then lastly I think you opened a question about financing those? We will continue to look at a variety of ways to finance them.
We'll lease -- we have leased some stores.
Actually in preparing for the call we were viewing some leased stuff.
The number of our leased stores continues to increase as we look at some of those opportunities.
I don't know if we'll do a sale leaseback quite frankly when we look at other financing activities.
I mean in the presentation we talked about doing a transaction this year.
Quite frankly given the overall level of interest rates we think doing a straight debt deal is probably the best way to finance our stores at least for the next few years.
The leases quite frankly are more driven by real estate.
As a general rule for example most if not all of our stores that are attached to a mall or another piece of real estate we generally lease those properties.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great color.
My last question the 120 basis points impact that you discussed to merchandise margin from the increase in promotions is that about what you're anticipating the impact will be throughout fiscal '15? No I would be surprised if it is that much for the full year.
I think Seth asked earlier we are expecting the promotional activity for the full year to be the same or maybe just slightly more challenging than it was last year.
But no the 120 that we saw in the fourth quarter we would not expect to continue for the full year.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on the Outpost stuff too and sort of dig in a bit and understand what the implication of that is for your capacity targets.
I understand that in the past you sort of talked about smaller formats being where much of that opportunity was.
Have you had a chance to think through that? And whether there's something that you can do? And I know you mentioned 40k small formats and maybe bigger than that but I'm still thinking about real small markets here and how you get to that 225 capacity number.
Yes.
Well first of all no.
The short answer to your question is no.
We're not changing our thinking around 225 stores.
And one of the things that's really interesting as we look at some of these markets is we see just more -- as we go to every market we see more -- usually we end up seeing more opportunity than we had originally planned.
And there's a few markets where maybe we originally thought about 2 stores and now we think about 3 or we had one and we can think about a second store.
As far as the size of the stores I think it's no question that a smaller format store is something we need to have and be successful.
I think it will probably be something bigger than 40 000 square feet and probably can -- definitely cheaper to build.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
So probably more to come then.
And then the 14th store in 2015 I guess that's League City Texas based on the list you guys rattled off.
Is that canceled or is that shifting into '16 because then you'd be at 6 announced stores in '16.
We are -- you're right on League City Texas and we're continuing to work on that store and expect it to open.
But to your point we don't expect it to open in '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And just lastly for me expense pressure.
I guess a lot of that is advertising but I also felt like corporate was a little bit higher than I had modeled at least.
Is there anything going on in there that you care to call out? No.
No.
We're continuing to really look at expenses.
And obviously we've got a lot of low-hanging fruit in '14 but we're going to continue to look.
And we've got teams out looking for additional opportunities now.
And by the way there's a lot of not huge dollars but there's a lot of things where we're still enjoying the full year impact of actions we took last year.
And Stephen I would add that our -- beginning 1.5 years ago the organization has really embraced continuous improvement across the enterprise and that really benefited that when we ask our teams to help us figure out better ways to do things and stop doing things we didn't need to do our organization really rallied behind that idea and it really paid off for us in '14.
And we expect more of that in '15 '16 and '17.
We'll take our next question from Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to ask you about the guns and ammo category how those tracked individually during the fourth quarter and your outlook for sales in those businesses for 2015.
Well let me talk about ammo first because I think it's really encouraging news.
As you remember the sharp decline in ammo in the early parts of 2014 really we did not expect.
And ammo was down 55% in the first quarter a year ago.
So to see ammo come back and comp positively and I just looked at the numbers earlier this morning it's sequentially improved in the fourth quarter: October November to December.
So it is -- it certainly seems like Rick going forward that the ammo buyer is back there's more inventory.
Our in-stock rates in retail were up over 800 basis points compared to the year before.
So that's a traffic-driving opportunity.
It's tough to see it move from direct to retail.
But look if it drives traffic in our retail stores we'll take that trade all day long.
So it certainly feels like ammo has returned to positive comp levels and continues to do so and perform nicely thus far in the first quarter.
Guns were not meaningfully worse than the total comp like 150 basis points or something like that not very much.
And we are seeing the modern sporting rifle business improve.
We are seeing shotguns pumps autoloaders and over-and-unders all improve.
And I hate to use the word normalization but it certainly does feel like firearms and they're doing better thus far in the first quarter that firearms are returning to more normal levels after a really difficult 2014.
I don't have the sense being in the business a long time as you know that firearms and ammo are doing anything but improving.
Let me give a little bit more color on that.
As you guys and I've talked to some of you guys about this but there's a chart I keep I had the guys prepare just to help me look at this that just looks at the stores that we had opened for the full year 2008 to get a sense -- to use that as sort of the base case over time to see how firearms and ammunition are performing.
And Tommy also told that they comped up in the fourth quarter.
And to give you a little color about that they were down -- at least on these 28 stores they were down slightly in October and then up in both November and December.
And it's interesting if you look at that in December in ammunition sales in retail we sold more ammunition than any year except for 2013 in December out of those 28 stores.
And in November it was the same way.
We sold more ammunition out of those 28 stores than any year except for 2013.
And in October which I already told you was only down -- I'm sorry those first 2 numbers were 2012 I misspoke.
In November and December we sold more ammunition than any year except for 2012.
And then in October we sold more ammunition out of those stores than any year except for 2013.
So I mean to Tommy's point ammo has been really healthy.
Guns have been a little bit more volatile [ph].
There are similar trends.
I mean we're selling out of those 28 stores.
We're selling the same level of guns roughly we sold in sort of the 2009 to 2010 timeframe.
And the trends are improving? Yes so it's -- and one of the things you'll hear us talk less about is guns in total because I mean they are an important product for us.
They've been solid.
We think we sell a lot of other interesting products we're going to talk about too.
Research Division</strong> PE pressures we're hearing about in guns and ammo if you could comment there on the margins the mix is shifting away from guns.
So I guess the margin is down quite a bit.
Our experience in average unit retail to what other people are talking about is very very different.
We saw flatness there not decline.
Research Division</strong> Finally if I could ask you about inventory.
At the end of the year up 18% year-over-year; sales were up 7% merchandise sales down for the year.
How do you feel about those levels heading into 2015? Well the way we look at it Rick is inventory your right it was up 17.9% but retail square footage was up 17.3% since the fourth quarter of '13.
So we feel really good about our inventory positions don't feel like we're too heavy and in fact the quality of our inventories is really healthy also.
We'll take our next question from Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
If we're talking about market share going back Tommy to your market share comments can you get into that a little bit? How you're measuring it and how some of that market share growth looks with and without the new stores contribution to it.
Well we don't have a way to look at share parsing out comp stores.
It's in the aggregate.
The data comes from a third party source that we use and I suspect other people use and it showed in the quarter Chuck that we had share gains in almost every category.
And I think it was probably a function of being really competitive and maybe beating some people to the punch.
We have another data point and that is we have visibility to our 2 million cardholders and their usage of our card at both direct competitors larger retail soft competitors which would be our vendor stores.
And we saw a really positive swing in usage of those cards away from our competitors to us.
So you take those 2 data points and we felt really good about -- while we didn't feel great about the earnings impact we definitely took it to people from a share standpoint.
When you look at the fourth quarter performance around the promotional efforts you made how do you feel about attracting the higher end customer with more discretionary income as well as your mix of merchandise towards private label -- or the balance between private label and branded and high and low price points? I don't think it changes our thinking very much on that at all.
We were encouraged that retention rates were up about 16% in the quarter.
I think what we're more concerned about in 2015 given what we saw in the customers' really unprecedented rate of redemption on promotional offers is just how do we manage that better tighter because it's a whole new world with affiliate networks and mobile apps and comparison shopping engines and all of that stuff.
And I don't think the promotional environment in the fourth quarter of this year unless the economy improves greatly will be much less intense.
But we just had some learnings in promotional offers that we'll take into the back half of the year.
I'd love to comment more but I suspect our competitors are listening to the call and so I'd appreciate not going deeper.
I did have a question Tommy.
My last question is about the promo activity.
Is it such that when people were redeeming these promos I guess a lot of it was the dollars-off coupons on a $100 spend.
I guess $10 off of $100 I think that's what I remember as being typical.
Was it just not generating much incremental spend above the $100? Are we seeing as you maybe just suggested customers gaming it so that they're qualifying for that promotional discount but not throwing a lot of other stuff into the basket.
There was some lift but it certainly didn't offset just the gross level increase in redemption rates.
Chuck we had other promotions like a bounce-back offer where you got -- if you spend a certain amount you get $20 the next time you came back in and again it's called Cabela's Bucks.
And I mean we saw redemption rates on shipping and those kinds of offers and $20 off $150s and just about everything.
And I think it's just a new reality that we're going to have to adjust to and be smarter in how we promote.
Does that mean shelf prices need to be a little higher to deal with that? We're thinking through all of that right now.
We'll take our next question from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Berg on for Peter.
I guess first off thanks for all the commentary on firearms.
That's been really helpful.
One more question I have is a follow-on though.
Just looking at vendor-led promotions in the quarter maybe can you comment on that a little bit as far as the level in relation to what you saw in Q3 and then how promotions in that area are trending in Q1? Well we did get more vendor support in the fourth quarter than we did in the third.
And I think our vendors who are across the enterprise were probably seeing a more promotional environment not just from us but with their other customers and maybe even their own e-commerce and store formats.
I don't think we were unique in feeling the unbelievable pressures in November and December.
So we did get vendor support.
I wouldn't characterize the support thus far in the first quarter as anything out of the ordinary.
We have great relationships with our vendors.
We have a great balance sheet.
We now have a critical mass of stores that if they need to move merchandise we are great partner to do it with.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then Ralph I think you quantified the currency headwind on Q4 to be like 40 to 50 basis points to comp.
How are you contemplating the currency headwind in the context to your guidance for 2015? I mean do you think it's going to be kind of at a similar level or get more severe? Any commentary there would be helpful.
Oh I'm not -- as it relates to the comp I'm not sure I've got a whole lot more guidance to give you.
I mean Canada is an important part of our business.
One of the other challenge we have and quite frankly is a way bigger deal than the comp is we're selling -- we've got some earnings issue -- or earnings challenges because our Canadian entity buys a lot of product in U.S.
dollars.
So they're seeing margin pressure which we believe we've got contemplated in our guidance.
But that to me is a bigger issue than the comp.
I don't know how much of an impact it'll have in the comp for the rest of the year but we got to figure -- we got to do some work around this margin pressure we have in Canada.
And I think we are evaluating probably like most U.S.
retailers that have operations in Canada or even Canadian retailers that buy dollar-denominated from the U.S.
just having to look holistically at the prices at which we're selling merchandise in Canada.
And we're doing that today because at these levels of change you just can't sit back and do nothing.
And I think that -- I mean the answer to the question is we've got -- in our guidance we're contemplating sort of current level of exchange rates.
So -- and no change in pricing.
So either increases in pricing or a favorable movement in exchange rates would obviously be helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can sneak one last quick one in.
The West Coast ports have been in the news quite a bit recently.
I think you benefited from lower transportation costs in Q4 you called that out.
Any anticipation of higher transportation costs here as we move into the spring and summer selling season? There was some impact in the fourth quarter for us to get product expedited out of the port and that has continued into the first 6 or 7 weeks of 2015.
A concern we have for potential headwinds in Q1 which led to the guidance that we spoke about for Q1 that is the real unknown what the impact of the port shutdown could be how long it lasts because it is costing us more money before they absolutely shut down to get trailers and cans out of the ports on the West Coast.
We'll take our next question from Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just on the topic of the promotional activity.
I was hoping that you could give some color or some context around just inventory industry-wide.
There was some commentary that the mom-and-pops had a lot of MSR inventory.
I'm wondering if you think that's been cleared out.
Do you think the neighborhood has gotten a little bit healthier as we move into 2015? Yes.
I think the neighborhood has gotten healthier Matt.
My experience tells me that these things take time to move out.
At the low end of the modern sporting rifle assortments it's still very competitive but maybe easing a little bit.
And then at the upper ends where the mom-and-pops don't play so much we're seeing encouraging movement.
So our inventories are in good shape.
I think our competitors are and I think the mom and pops are healing but not totally out of the woods.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just another question on the quarter.
I'm wondering if you could talk to the performance in apparel and footwear.
That was a segment that was a little weaker than we expected in Q3.
And now that you've had some more time to analyze that I'm just curious kind of how that did in the quarter and what you think may have caused some of the weakness later in the year.
Yes.
Let me qualify what I'm going to tell you by noting that the differences between categories that performed at or better than the consolidated comp and those categories that performed worse than the consolidated comp are -- it's a very tight range with only one outlier which is powersports which just had a phenomenal comp in the quarter.
So in footwear that was a category that was better than the consolidated comp; women's and children's apparel better than the consolidated comp; hunting apparel better than the consolidated comp.
The only category in apparel that was slightly worse than the consolidated comp was men's apparel.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That sounds like that sort of fixed itself.
And then in terms of the guidance.
Ralph can you help us out with SG&amp;A growth dollar growth for the year if we back out the incentive comp true-up that needs to take place versus 2014? What's a sort of good core SG&amp;A dollar growth rate that we should be thinking about? Well as we think about what we're doing for 2015 we've got -- I guess what we're thinking about is expenses growing at about the same rate and this -- I'm talking about operating expenses here.
Operating expense is growing at about the same rate as revenue.
That's with the incentive comp which is one of the reasons we talked -- when we gave the guidance we gave slightly higher growth in revenue than what we did in expenses then because you get some -- and then the rest of it by the way is interest expense which we talked about.
We're going to have more in interest expense this year as we do a financing deal.
But we've got sort of operating expenses growing basically at about the same rate as revenue with the incentive comp.
LLC Research Division</strong> And were there -- are there any kind of investments we should be thinking about this year for the car business like chip-and-pin technology? Or is that something that we could see later on? Well chip-and-pin is -- well actually just in -- the bank guys would kill me here if I didn't say it right we're actually doing just chip not chip-and-pin which is what most of the industry is doing.
It's chip-and-signature.
But we do expect to roll that out on the card side later this year.
So that's embedded.
It's not -- I mean it's a few million dollars.
It pales in comparison to the incentive comp issue.
We'll take our next question from Mark Miller with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on merchandising.
Can you give us some perspective on the relative strength across good better best price points across the store? No material change Mark from prior trend.
Research Division</strong> So as price transparency is increasing for the consumer I mean I guess where I'd go with the question is the consumers is interested in promotion getting a better deal what is Cabela's -- what are your initiatives across the middle range of the assortment? You did a lot of great work on the high end.
I guess I'm wondering how much of that assortment is going to be upgraded and enhanced through '15 or should we think of this as a multiyear process? Yes it's a multiyear process and I'll use some internal jargon if you'll allow me.
It's a concept of exploding the middle which is really focusing on having great value in the middle of the assortments that are either special makeups from the vendors that can't be compared on comparative shopping engines or in Cabela's branded products.
And Mark Brian at Analyst Day is going to spend a fair amount of time on this subject so stay tuned.
I'd steal his thunder if I got a lot deeper.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll be interested to hear that.
And then just to clarify on the comp so far in the quarter.
Can you just remind us what the comp was last year? I mean I remember we were in a deep freeze and there wasn't a lot of movement in some categories.
So I mean is it improving on a 2-year basis as well or is part of the better experience the easier compare? Well I have the comp for the last quarter last few quarters.
I'll let you guys do the math and figure out if it's better worse or indifferent.
But first quarter last year we were down 21.7.
And in '13 we're up 24 so...
We'll take our next question from Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys first off and I know you guys don't like to blame weather but if we look at the sequential comps in Q4 and then getting more promotional really in December how much of that maybe had to do with weather getting abnormally warm through December versus maybe promotions from peers? The weather issue really was a factor in October less so in December.
If you remember it was 70 degrees in the middle part of the country where we are so strong most of the month of October.
And then November hit and it was very cold most places.
While it did warm up a couple of times in December I don't think that had much of an impact on the business.
I think it was really consumers being very cautious with where they spent their money at Cabella's and most every retailer in the country.
I'm sure there are some outliers.
But it was definitely a war for the customer's dollar in November and December.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then looking at promotions during fourth quarter maybe how much of that was geared towards CLUB cardholders.
And if you can speak to kind of the percent of sales that you saw on CLUB cards either on fourth quarter or for the full year any delta versus the prior year.
I don't have that in front of me.
We can get that.
I don't recall Mark that we did -- if we increased promotions to the world we did like-promotional increases to our cardholders.
And actually what's interesting I don't have the data here either but I was just looking at it.
What skews that information by the way which is why I'm not sure I'd use it is a key metric is the new stores and where they're located.
I mean we've got some stores that CLUB penetration in the store quite frankly is approaching 50% at some of our older stores where not surprisingly one of the smaller stores that we have for CLUB card penetration is Anchorage.
And that's not a surprise because it doesn't have the benefit of signing up cards from all these other stores.
And so looking at it on a year-over-year basis this CLUB card penetration you kind of need to do it on a same-store basis and I quite frankly don't have that data.
But what I think it does go to show is the tremendous opportunity we have to get some of these newer stores' penetration up to where some of our older stores have been over time and that's an opportunity that I really look forward to.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at SG&amp;A here and the advertising delta.
Can you quantify that in dollars? Am I right in looking at as I'm backing in on the math that it's close to $20 million [indiscernible]? I've got it.
I'm not going to give you a lot of -- that's a little high but it's -- that is a slightly higher number than I would use.
But for a bunch of competitive reasons I'm not going to give you a whole lot of guidance on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just what tax rate maybe we can expect in modeling going forward.
Yes it's going to continue to go up over time.
We expect it next year to be slightly higher than the federal rate of 35%.
And we'll take our next question from David Magee with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of a theoretical question about this year's guidance.
If you look at the roughly 10% EPS growth that you're endorsing what is your assumption for the legacy stores? It seems to me that the stores you've added in the last year or so just given the accretive nature of new stores for you all that plus the card [ph] in itself would provide most of that growth.
Are you expecting the legacy stores to be flat to down? Well I mean I guess the way I'd address it is we're not -- at neither of our stores either the new format stores or the legacy stores we're not expecting comp store sales to be a meaningful contributor to profit in 2015.
But I don't think we think of the legacy stores separate from the new stores.
We just -- but we don't see that as a meaningful part of the growth engine for '15.
Going forward we do expect them to contribute.
We'll take our next question from John O'Neill with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First you've called out powersports a couple of quarters in a row now as being very strong.
Any plans on expanding your offerings there? And the second question with respect to the 53rd week where do you expect that to drop to earnings per share? Let me talk about the powersports thing first.
It's been really interesting over the last several quarters that as guns and ammo were down and then started to recover that there is real strength in big-ticket items like boats ATVs UTVs big ticket marine electronics.
And then our wildlife and land management business which is still in its early stages these are $20 000 to $50 000 units with attachments and we're getting sales some sales velocity there.
But boat shows thus far this year are very encouraging and much like the car business big-ticket items consumers are very interested in.
I don't think we have any significant plans to talk about in terms of expansion of boat assortment or vendors.
We think we're in a pretty good place with our powersports assortment.
In general we added a new 25 horse tractor for this year and we have good expectations for that product.
So it's really amazing to see really strong comp growth in these very expensive products relative to the rest of our assortment.
Yes.
As far as the extra week I mean it's interesting because I guess off the top of your head you'd think that'd be big upside.
But most of our expense systems like payroll for example calculate payroll by week.
So the vast majority of the expenses get -- you get an extra week of expenses too so it's not a significant contributor to profits.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Burns with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A quick one for you.
Ammunition sales seems to be settling out at very robust levels relative to sort of the pre-surge historical trends.
Do you think consumers are now sort of essentially buying for use or is there any sort of stockpiling anything still occurring? Yes a really good question by the way.
I think the only category that could still see a bit of hoarding maybe is in rimfire ammunition.
And to call it hoarding is maybe a stretch.
I think when we get and others get in stock in rimfire ammunition or Win Mag ammunition or 17 HMR ammunition I think people are buying everything on the shelf and they're probably using some of it.
The rest of the categories I think people are buying for consumption.
And we'll take our next question from Dan Wewer with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Tommy I noticed that the website had some issues on the Thanksgiving weekend.
And if you have any sense as to that if that meaningfully impacted your Direct revenues? And then also if it suggests there is some greater infrastructure investments needed to support the website.
Well first of all welcome to your first call.
It's good to have you.
We like a bunch of other people Dan experienced on certain days during the quarter unprecedented traffic.
I mean it was a couple of days.
It was mind-boggling the number of people that were on cabelas.com.
And when you get -- when you try to drive a car that was designed to go 100 miles an hour and all of a sudden you're driving 150 it stresses everything.
So we tipped over a couple of times.
Our teams recovered really nicely.
There were some oddball issues in the code and some contention issues and servers and all kinds of technical stuff that I won't bore you with.
The long and the short of it is we learned a lot and we don't think there is anything material.
We're going to make some hardware investments but they're not material at all to the company's earnings.
And they really didn't affect revenue performance in any meaningful way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question.
2 of the brands in your boat category are Ranger and Stratus.
And it seems a little bit awkward now that those brands are owned by Bass Pro Shops.
But how does that affect your plans in remaining a dealer for those 2 brands? And if you're looking at contingency plans given the change in ownership.
Well I mean no comment is needed.
It's business as usual.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question I have revolves around competition in terms of real estate and just having taken a look at your new Chattanooga store and discovered that there's a Bass Pro about a mile away under construction as well which seems odd given that's not such a large market.
And if you think that's just kind of a one-off challenge or if there are any concerns that this overlap between the 2 will intensify.
I can't -- we look at a lot of sites.
And I would tell you Chattanooga is probably there's -- I would tell you there's 2 outliers and interestingly enough geographically they're pretty close to each other which is Chattanooga and Bristol.
They were both going to be pretty close to a Bass Pro shop.
We certainly don't look for that.
It does happen occasionally for whatever reason.
I guess I'd describe it more as an outlier than anything else.
I mean look it's still a big country and there's a lot of opportunity and we may be closer in some places that we'd like to be but there's a lot of places for us to go.
And Dan there are about 10 or 12 markets big markets in the United States Phoenix the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex near Hamburg Pennsylvania near Chicago near Dundee Michigan Kansas City I mean I could go on and on where we coexist with Bass in the marketplace and have done so for years.
So being close to each other my sense is they probably do pretty well where we're near them and we do pretty well where we're near them.
And so it's not something we look for but not something that gives us great concern.
And we'll go next to Jim Chartier with Monness Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
The first one can you just -- you commented on comps today in the first quarter.
Have Direct sales -- has that trend improved as well in the first quarter? And the second question you spent a lot of time at last year's Analyst Day talking about the Cabela's branded product.
I'm just curious how that performed for you in the second half of this year.
Direct sales have improved coming out of the fourth quarter.
And what was second part of your question again? About Cabela's branded product how that performed.
About the same Cabela's branded product no material change up or down.
Crespi Hardt &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you just remind us what percentage of fourth quarter sales did the Cabela's branded product account for this year? About 31%.
Ladies and gentlemen in the interest of time we will take our final question from Lee Giordano with CRT Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just real quickly guys.
I was wondering if you could talk a little more about the women's and kids in the softgoods business.
I know you've been putting a lot of effort into softgoods over the past few years.
I'm wondering if there's anything new as far as initiatives for this spring versus last year or maybe the -- prior to that.
Yes.
We're going to go into that really deep at Analyst Day.
And again I think you're going to be pleased with what you hear.
And if I told you more Brian Linneman won't speak to me for 2 weeks which might not be a bad thing but I probably better not risk that.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Tommy Millner for closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to talking to you soon hopefully in a couple of weeks at our analyst meeting.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.