Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated First Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question &amp; answer session.
Instruction will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
I’d like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Chris Gay Director Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer; and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
We were pleased with our first quarter results and our strong start to 2015.
With continued normalization following the extreme volatility in fire alarms and ammunition over the several periods we are pleased with the sequential improvement throughout our business.
The first quarter marks the fourth straight quarter of sequential improvement in both retail comparable store sales and direct revenue.
We were pleased with the strong performance of our new stores continued enhancement to our omni-channel model and excellent performance from our Cabela’s CLUB Visa program.
While we’re off to a strong start in 2015 we remained focused on executing our growth strategy and providing world-class service to each and every customer.
First let’s discuss the sequential improvement in comparable store sales with total comp store sales down 1.3% and U.S.
comp store sales down 4/10th of 1% for the first quarter as compared to down 5.5% and 4.7% respectively for the fourth quarter of 2014.
We saw several merchandize categories generate positive comp results in the quarter including power sports hunting equipments optics camping shooting and fishing.
The strong performance in these categories is further evidence of continued normalization throughout our business.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 3.3% as a result of ongoing declines in ammunition sales as our customers shift back to making ammo purchases in our retail stores with inventory levels continuing to improve.
Direct revenue also face the headwind of continued canalization from our new retail stores.
For the quarter we were pleased to see improvements in direct revenue in several key merchandise categories with women’s can children’s apparel optics homing gifts and power sports all generating increases in direct sales as compared to the first quarter a year ago.
Our omni-channel strategy continues to generate meaningful improvements in the shopping experience for our customers.
During the first quarter we saw continued migration of customer traffic to mobile devices with the roughly one third of all direct channel traffic coming from handheld devices.
We continue to make significant improvements in our digital experience.
With our first quarter launch of our newly remodeled home page.
Improved retail store pages and events specific experience pages or spring 2015.
Now let’s discuss new store performance.
We continued to be pleased with the performance of our new format stores and are particularly pleased with the results in many of our new locations.
The solid performance of our new stores continues to give us great confidence in future store openings with our 2015 store openings marking our entrance into many highly anticipated markets.
Now let’s take a look at our Cabela’s club which had another exceptional quarter and continue to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 7% and the average balance of credit card loans increase by 12.3% to over $4.2 billion Cabela’s club members are our most loyal customers with higher average spend and greater purchase frequency.
Now turning to earnings guidance as the volatility in fire arms and ammunition over the past 2 years subsides.
We are confident in our outlook for full year 2015.
As a result we reaffirm our expectations for a low double digit growth rate in revenue and a high single to low double digit growth rate in diluted earnings per share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of Cabela’s club.
Thanks Tommy.
For the quarter we realized growth in merchandize sales strong performance from our new stores and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter merchandise gross margin decreased 120 basis points to 33.2% from 34.4% in the same quarter a year ago.
Merchandise mix headwinds from power sports and ammunition combined with the slightly more promotional cadence early in the first quarter led to roughly 60 basis points of margin decline in the quarter.
The remainder of the decline was attributable to an adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between segments for certain promotional costs which totaled $4.5 million or 60 basis points for the quarter.
The effect of this change increases Financial Services revenue and merchandise cost.
The new presentation will be ongoing and has no impact in consolidated operating income or earnings per share.
Now turning to operating expenses for the quarter we continue to tightly manage operating expenses.
Non-GAAP operating expenses increased 13.7% while revenue increased 14%.
We continue to benefit from many cost saving initiatives implemented over the past year and have identified several additional cost savings opportunities that are actually provide benefits in future periods.
We continue to be pleased with our next generation store performance.
We’ve open three new stores year-to-date including Fort Mill South Carolina; Berline Massachusetts and Garner North Carolina.
Additionally in the second quarter we planned to open Sun Prairie Wisconsin next week.
Fort Oglethorpe Georgia; Ammon Idaho; and Moncton New Brunswick Canada.
For the third quarter we expect to open stores in Noblesville Indiana; West Chester Ohio; and Oklahoma City Oklahoma.
And in the fourth quarter we plan to open the final three stores for the year at Huntsville Alabama; Bristol Virginia; and Calgary Alberta Canada.
We continue to identify new store opportunities for 2016 and have announced nine stores to date including Lexington Kentucky; League City Texas; Centerville Ohio; Farmington Utah; Woodberry New York; Short Pump Virginia; Owatonna Ontario Canada Abbotsford British Columbia and the new stores we announced this morning in Avon Ohio.
For the quarter financial services revenue increased 24.7% to $122.9 million.
The increase of financial services revenue was primarily due to an 18.8% increase and interest and fee income and 6.4% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 7% in the quarter to 1.9 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 12.3% to approximately $4.2 billion net charge offs as a percentage of average credit card loans decreased 27 basis points from the year-ago quarter and were just 1.53%.
The decrease in charge-off rate was primarily attributable to the acceleration in timing of the sale of charge-off loans that resulted in a 16 basis point reduction in the charge-off rate.
Additionally we continued to see favourable trends in delinquencies greater than 30-day delinquencies were just 0.71% as compared to 0.68% a year ago.
Greater than 60-day delinquencies were 0.43% as compared to 0.41% a year ago and greater than 90-day delinquencies were 0.23% as compared to 0.22% a year ago.
During the quarter we decreased our reserve for loan losses by $600 000.
For 2015 due to continued portfolio growth we expect to increase the reserve between $5 million and $10 million for the next year.
As we look forward we expect to complete our next term securitization late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter of 2015.
During the second quarter of 2014 we announced plans to outsource distribution in Canada.
For the first quarter we incurred an additional $1.2 million of expenses primarily related to the transition to our third-party provider and closing our current distribution centre.
We do not expect to incur additional expenses related to this transition.
With our store growth plans we expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
Therefore as we’ve previously discussed we expect to close private placement transaction in June.
Now let’s turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 9.2% or $6.9 million year-over-year to $811 million.
Over the same period we’ve grown retail square footage by 17.5% with 14 new stores opening since Q1 2014.
Additionally we’re very comfortable with the quality of our inventory as we prepare for the new store openings ahead of us in 2015.
Our third quarter effective tax rate was 37% compared to 34.4% in the same quarter a year ago.
The increase in effective tax rate was primarily related to changes in unrecognized tax benefits and deferred tax items and an increase in our state effective tax rate.
Our full year 2015 effective tax rate is expected to be between 35.5% and 36.5%.
Before turning the call over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 expectations.
For the full year 2015 we expect to have incremental incentive compensation expense of roughly $30 million compared to full year 2014.
Recall the third quarter 2014 operating expenses benefited from the reversal of incentive compensation that was accrued in the first half of 2014.
As a result we expect this to be an operating expense headwind in the third quarter of 2015.
I’d like to point out two other items that do not impact consolidated income or earnings per share.
First in the second quarter of 2014 our merchandise business received a special one-time license fee from Cabela's CLUB in the amount of $11 million.
This license fee increased profitability in our merchandising segments and decreased profitability in our Financial Services segment.
We do not expect the special license fee to recur in 2015.
Secondly in adjustment in the presentation of reimbursement between the Financial Services business and the Merchandising business for certain promotional costs will have no future impact as we lag the implementation of this new presentation in the second quarter.
As Tommy mentioned we reaffirmed our expectations for the full year period.
If you recall we released approximately $3.7 million from our reserve from loan losses in second quarter a year ago.
Therefore we expect diluted earnings per share to be at or slightly below the same level as our diluted earnings per share in the second quarter a year ago.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Thanks Ralph.
While we are pleased with the strong start to 2015 we are focused on continually improving our business as we recover from the extreme volatility in firearms and ammunition.
We are encouraged by the strong growth in merchandize sales sequential improvement in comparable store sales and excellent performance from Cabela’s CLUB and our new format stores.
We will continue to focus on managing expenses and enhancing our customer experience with improvements through our omni-channel model.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank all of our outfitters for their commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day.
Well done you guys.
With that operator let’s open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
You guys back to where you from providing these sales per square.
What are you seeing from new stores Ralph is that a figure you’d be comfortable giving? First of all for some reason I missed the first half of your call the first half of your question on the phone but I think you asked about sales per square foot and profit per square foot on our new stores? Correct.
Yes I’ll just tell you.
The reason we didn’t give it it didn’t change meaningfully because the comp was so near-flat.
Fair enough.
Okay.
And then … The sales number is changed in line with the comp.
You missed my present threes at the outside I guess as well hope you guys aware.
The other question I had on the merchandise business.
Can you speak to your assessment of what cannibalization was during the quarter from new stores are opening? Yes Jim its Tommy.
It was about a 100 basis points which is in line with what we’ve seen in prior periods.
I think what we were really encouraged by in the quarter if I can elaborate a bit some core categories that are – with all the noise that we’ve lived through in guns ammunition we have some core categories that are very important that comped up the United States in the quarter and that’s key categories like camping fishing honing equipment optics and power sports and that gives us reason for encouragement as we look forward in 2015.
The effect of cannibalization pretty much as its been.
Okay.
That’s great to hear.
And then I have a number of question on the bank maybe I’ll take some of those offline but Ralph can I ask you to explain again the impact to charge offs from the accelerating sales.
We just had a sale of credit card receivable to a third part which is part of a new strategy we’ve got to improve recovery rates we had about I know because people are sensitive at it it had about 16 basis point impact on the charge off rate in the quarter and we mainly called out because I didn’t want people to think about our charge off rate being as low as 153 or whatever it was in the quarter.
I mean it will be it should be closer to that one kind of number we’ve seen historically.
And we’ll take our next question from Lee Giordano with Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
I was hoping you talk little bit more about the growth strategy for smaller markets as you grow towards your goal of 200 stores in the U.S.
what kind of markets do you think you can get into how small would you go and what kind of return metrics do you think you can get on those stores.
I know you’re not doing the uppers anymore but how is that strategy changed? Thanks.
Well we’re in the process right designing a 15 000 square foot store that could go down to some pretty small markets.
We’re not prepared to give an update on that because we’ve got a team working on it and interesting enough we have I guess I’ll call it different team we’ve got a another team of people working on the execution and performance of our upper stores and it’s a little bit ironic we’ve talked about it so much in the last three months our upper stores by far with the best comping stores in this last quarter.
So it’s exciting to see what that teams have done and some of the results from that.
So its too early the answer to your question is its too early to give a lot of detail on our smaller store formats we expect to be able to talk about that probably later this year but the improvements are our execution team as put in the upper stores is pretty exciting.
Great.
And then just lastly was there any impact in the quarter from the slow down on the west coast sports or is that behind now.
There really wasn’t a revenue impact that would be meaningful.
We did incur some cost for a good part of the quarter to get product out of the ports that flowed through emerge margin because it’s in cogs and I would quantify that as tens of [indiscernible] but something things happens in a business and we had to deal with it.
But it’s behind us long behind us.
We’ll take our next question form Seth Sigman with Crédit Suisse.
Thanks and sorry got cut off a little soon.
Apologies if it’s over repetitive but a couple of questions on the gross margin wondering if you can just elaborate on the margin performance throughout the quarter.
I think there was an indication that it was probably worse early on so just wondering how that finished the quarter and then how that’s looking early in Q2 in light of the promotional comments you mentioned.
Seth if you remember on the last call we commented that the first week of the quarter which was the after Christmas sale event which we had noted had become more important over the time we were very promotional.
So the improvement through the quarter was really the result of just returning the more normal levels of promotional activity which is kind of continued into the second quarter with similar U.S.
comps store sales performance that we saw in the first quarter all be it early in the second quarter.
So with the assumption that your merchandise margin should be flat or even improve as we move through this year? I think it’s probably way too early to apply on that just because of the size of the late third quarter and fourth quarter.
I wouldn’t want to get ahead of ourselves that much.
I’ll just add it to that our guidance presumes that they are down.
Absolutely.
And maybe just more strategically promotional activity aside what are some of things that you guys are doing to drive traffic whether it’s marketing or CRM or what they are doing that you think will be bigger drivers over the time? As we’ve said in the prior calls we continue to get better and better in digital marketing and marketing through social media as well as our use of television.
And those who are all designed to drive traffic geo-location capabilities opt-in programs on email are making a big difference as people consume newspapers circulars on an inserted basis and the papers just less and less and that’s really the future of the company as to continue to get really-really good at driving traffic to our retail stores and to our website with digital media.
We’ll go next to Joshua Reilly with Northland Securities.
Can you talk about how the promotional environment have evolved throughout the quarter? And what do you think the outlook is for the rest of the year at this point? There has been other than in the last question or two questions ago that I talked about.
Other than the first week of the quarter it’s slightly more promotional but not dramatically more promotional and we expect that slightly more promotional cadence to continue.
Okay and then one other quick question how are the inventory levels of long guns and MSR’s at this point? They are in very good shape.
But our company and I think what you see from public reporting fire arms manufacturers they are improving in the channels.
We’ll go next to Matthew R.
Nemer with Wells Fargo.
You mentioned some of the categories with comping positive and I don’t want to harp on the negative.
But I’m wondering if you could talk to where the pressure points still are in terms of categories at the store level.
Yes retail comp categories that are slightly softer or apparel and home and Gibbs and it’s really isolated there and Matt we don’t have concerns about our apparel business.
We did have a promotional shift in the quarter.
We launched our Spring Great Outdoors event two weeks later in March than normal.
So we feel really good about where our apparel business is.
But to your specific question that’s if there was relative softness that’s where it was but no concerns love the assortments both in Cabela’s branded products and international brand assortments.
They look great and we’re encouraged going forward.
And then secondly as you enter into some newer markets particularly in the Southeast I’m curious what you’re seeing in terms of your take rate on CLUB applications? And also just general CLUB behavior is it pretty similar to your other markets or anything different in terms of the club program? Well I think the short answer is it’s probably too early to tell but we’ve been really pleased with sign up rates that we’ve got at some of those new stores.
And I think there’s as we’ve discussed back there’s nothing that’s changed that doesn’t let us believe that’s a big opportunity as we open stores in some of those Southern markets.
And then just lastly Ralph could you just give us a quick update on some of the bigger cost save initiatives that I know there are some that are still sort of being harvested from last year but what are some of the cost save initiatives that you plan to put into place this year? I’m not sure we can go into a whole lot of specifics on that yet but I’ll tell you as you look at initiatives across the company there is a lot of them that are 500 000 a $1 million here and there that we can continue to look at.
I mean one of them we’ve – I mean what have we talked about historically is fraud losses in our card business I mean that’s an opportunity as we’re just now in the process of starting to unless it will be next month we will issue our first chip cards.
All those things are going to just start help drive.
The other one is and I spent some time down I hate to be I am card centric but we did a lot of work – CLUB the other day and they’ve done a lot of work to just try to figure out how to run that business better.
I think there’s a lot of opportunities there but the big opportunities are on the merchandizing side of the business just that’s where the laundry or the preponderance of the expenses are.
So we’ll work on that and continue to find opportunities there.
Matt to elaborate just a bit in merchandizing the net skew profitability tool that Brian and the merchandizing teams are using is eye opening to say the least and it’s helping us drain cost out of the entire supply chain on products both CAB branded and national brands in hard goods and soft goods and much of that net skew profitability improvement will flow through SG&amp;A not through merch margin and you could literally take most products in every category and there’s some activity going on to make it more efficient through the supply chain.
What inning going in on harvesting that opportunity? I would say like third inning.
Excellent.
Okay great start to the year.
Please go ahead.
Matt it is just interesting where you start your questioning by asking Tommy about what comps by category and when that would approve I guess it’s funny because the other way I look at it is comps by store look at the ones that are down and see what the commonality is there and then look at the ones that are up and see what the commonality is there.
I already called out that by far the best performing stores from a comp perspective in the quarter were our smaller stores.
They did really well.
When I look at the stores that are down it’s interesting you can kind of put them into one or two categories either A they’re affected by our cannibalization or secondly what you may not think about is some of our extremely Northern stores Scarborough Maine East Grand Forks [indiscernible] Montana where they rely on a lot of Canadian traffic.
Those have been challenged because of the exchange rate.
At some point soon we will lap both of those phenomenon.
We’ll go next to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Question for your net financial services the provision came in below our forecast 1.3% annualized and last couple of quarters that was tracking 1.9% of receivables curious how we should think about that and is the normalized number still at 2% area Ralph.
Well I think the charge off the provision is keep in mind the provision is once the P&amp;L was slightly different from the charge off number for couple of reasons one of which is when we charge off interest in fee income it goes to negative interest in fee income and not through the provision line on the P&amp;L.
I called out -- the only thing that's different this quarter is we called out the 16 basis points.
Or maybe just two things that are there -- we called out the 16 basis points of improvement caused by the recovery rate.
Now one thing that’s exciting about that is the changes that our team had been putting down there will help us with the recoveries over time and is sustainable.
There is about 1.5 million that I would call as one-time.
And then the other one is we also called out that we released $600 000 of the allowance for loan losses which helped the P&amp;L a little bit.
That part of it won’t recur.
So for the rest of the year I would expect the provision to be something in the high ones the charge off rate somewhere in the 18 19 kind of range.
Thanks for the color.
Also noticed that customer rewards costs.
They were the lowest that we've seen in a number of quarters or years actually anything driving that? No we added a new disclosure this quarter which you’ll see in the 10-Q when its filed later today which is total cardholder charge volume which should track with rewards pretty as close as anything and you’ll see that spending for participant was down in the quarter which was largely a function of gas prices.
Just with the number of people that used their credit cards at gas stations with the price of gas going down we’ve seen less of that volume.
But interestingly enough we’ve seen more people revolve on their credit card and the people that are revolving interestingly enough are either at or slightly above the median FICO score.
So that helped profitability a lot just as those people started to revolve more and their credit with the customers.
So that business is going really well despite the decrease we’ve seen on charge volume per customer.
From prior periods it wasn’t negative it was just -- it grew at a lower rate right up.
No I think it actually.
Charge volume per customer is down.
Because of the gas.
Cards grew slightly faster than charge volume.
That's right.
Thanks and finally if I could ask you about the comp trend in 2Q any comments there would be helpful.
Just that early in the queue we’re seeing consistent performance from Q1.
We’ll go next to Peter Kieth with Piper Jaffray.
Thanks a lot.
It's actually Jon Berg on for Peter today.
Congrats on the good start to the year.
My first question and thanks for the help of commentary on some of your northern stores but are you guys seeing any variance in performance in your overall store base with your Texas stores or any other oil patch exposed stores maybe in Colorado? Did you see any slowing in the stores in Q1 beyond what's seasonal? You know that doesn’t jump out as you look at it by stores I mean Colorado stores continue to do really well.
Yes I just don’t see that I’m looking that some of our stores that you would think if its oil sensitive and most of them were flat to slightly positive.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And remember we don’t have stores in and around Huston which is probably the most affected market in Texas.
My second question is it sounds like camping is off to a good start here and you'll be launching your new camping products on time for Memorial Day.
Are you planning any specific marketing campaigns to help that launch and are you expecting acceleration in that category I guess as we move through the year with new products? Well if you were watching the Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday night we launched a television commercial announcing what we call Disconnect Day and if you look at social media you’ll see Disconnect Day all over social media and sort of the theme is to unplug to take a commitment to unplug yourself from all of your deceives for a day and go outside and camp.
And with that we launched Camp Cabela.
And I would encourage you to go look at it because it’s going to be a big deal around memorial weekend.
And for those of you who were at Analyst Day I think our assortments look really good and now to have some promotional energy behind it and a good start to the year in camping is quite encouraging.
Because that’s a big potential category for us even bigger than it is today.
Okay great.
And if I can sneak one last quick housekeeping question in for Ralph with your share repurchase announcement today I guess should we be looking at the share count to be roughly flat heading into next year then.
Yes.
It may be down a little bit year-over-year.
But it is 2 million shares and 71 million.
We’ll go next to Mark Miller with William Blair.
I'd like to get some color on the merchandise mix headwind that you called out.
How much of that was due to the timing of the apparel sale event and how quickly do you expect the merchandise mix to abate? I guess I'm surprised it's down as it is given that firearms and ammo are still down? Well remember our best performing category in the quarter was power sports which has a lower rate and we had a big quarter in power sports and that was together with ammunition comping positive it the quarter.
That was the bulk of the mix headwind Mark.
Alright.
Shifting gears how concerned are you about same store traffic down in the range of 2% to 3%.
And I guess if you can just highlight what you think of the key initiatives that can drive that towards positive? Well it’s been consistent that the blend of ticket and transaction has been pretty consistent over number quarters with transactions being down low single digits and ticket being up low single digits.
Our digital strategies are certainly trying to drive more traffic to our retail stores we’re doing a lot of event marketing to create reason to come to our retail stores and Ralph you have any more color on it.
No.
The only other thing is ammo -- I'm surprised nobody's asked me yet but ammo -- particularly ammunition was really strong in the quarter and comped up.
So yet two nice categories comping up that weren’t great margin categories which would be ammunition which is a subset of shooting and power sports.
And just a final one for me and I wanted to ask more about the small markets small format stores it sounds like you’re going to come towards later in the year.
But maybe Ralph or Tommy you could share with us within that 225 store long term objective just roughly what’s the proportion you’ve envisioned from small market format or how important is this to the long term growth that you get this format right.
It’s reasonably important I was commenting to Tommy earlier just over the whatever it has been six years that he's been here we keep focusing on smaller and smaller stores.
And it’s going to be important.
So I think we’re pleased with what the team is doing around the 50 000 square foot.
So quite frankly I’m really pleased with how well our existing small stores have been comping.
Mark we’re really pleased with the work they’ve done so far.
We’ll go next to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Good to see the announcement of a store in Cleveland even though your building it on the wrong side of town I knew you’re going to say that.
Maybe you live on the wrong side of town.
Chuck the happiest news for you today was we’re putting a store in Cleveland.
It’s good enough.
It’s good enough.
Good to hear.
I wanted to talk on the camping issue as well.
I’ve noticed a lot of promotional activity direct mails some of your ads and how do that help the category in the quarter and do you expect some acceleration into the second quarter as the weather is better? Well it was really great to finally have an assortment that we could promote.
So we really -- as our teams in camping have done just a phenomenal job of rebuilding the category almost from a clean sheet of paper.
They segmented the customers.
They stratified the assortments good better best.
Marketing married what I think is a really powerful marketing campaign and that’s kind of the magic when you have great product and really powerful marketing funny how good things happen.
So I think we have strong hopes for the camping business not just this year but we should and will be a major player in the United States and Canada in that category going forward.
I’m very confident of that.
Any comments on shrink and how that affected results in the quarter even if it’s been positive? It’s not -- no impact.
Well flat year-over-year and it’s just a small item.
Yes.
Yes.
Somebody is trying to find the number but it was not meaningful.
And one thing I did noticed and I guess this will change over the course of the year but when you look at the operating profit by segment for the quarter financial services is almost as big as retail.
That will probably shift as year goes on but does that affect you in a way you think about the business and asset allocation? I mean no because the way I think about – basically the card business drafts off of retail and you put as much capital into that business as is required.
And I think the only -- and this isn’t a change in thinking.
The only thing I think about with respect to that is we got to make sure that our retail stores are designed to maximize card growth.
And outside of that I think of our capital allocation strategy is leading with retail and the card business drafts off it.
That’s great.
Thanks very much.
By the way shrink is flat.
We’ll go next to David Magee with SunTrust.
Sorry if I missed this is the assumption for comps as the year progresses to go from being flat to slightly down to being flat to slightly up is that what just were embedded in your guidance for the year? Yes we would certainly hope that sometime in the back half of the year we have a shot at going positive I don’t know when exactly that is but certainly the sequential improvement -- our trajectory is really good.
If I think about our change in our view point today versus our change from our view point in February when we last gave it to you is I would tell you we’re slightly more optimistic on revenue but probably a little bit more pessimistic as it relates to margin; if you want to summarize how things have changed in the last eight weeks or whatever it’s been.
And then Ralph on the comment you made early about the loan loss allowance being added this year 5 million to 10 million is that for calendar 2015 you have a number? Yes.
So should we just sort of allocate since you had actually a slight benefit in the first quarter maybe half a penny should we allocate that just equally to the next three quarters? No it’s bigger in the third and fourth quarter.
We’ll go next to John O'Neil with Imperial Capital.
I was in your Berlin store and it looked terrific and I noticed different merchandizing units merchandizing areas different placement of displays even different than stores that were opened just a year ago.
Maybe you could talk to that some of the benefits you expect to see and maybe address how that store is doing its first month and what you’re seeing for cannibalization in Hartford compared to expectations? Well first of all congratulations on pronouncing it correctly.
We’ve learned the hard way.
It’s not Berlin it’s Berlin and our customers corrected us on that which meant that we had to change some radio commercial; so one learns a lot.
To the broader point of what you’re seeing in merchandize we now have enough stores John that we should always be testing different ideas for adjacencies for what goes in front of what where fishing is how big fishing is how is a parallel assorted what does the gun wall look like? And that store was just a refinement of some of those ideas.
If I remember correctly the firearms area was all along the back wall of the store and the ATF mix check area was on the left wall of the building.
So that was an idea we learnt to eliminate congestion in the busy holiday season so I wouldn’t read into it any more than just the company really paying attention and testing new things new ideas.
And it’s really in the spirit of continuous improvement that we’ve talked about now for years that it’s not much more than that.
Store is off to a good start really like being there.
I don’t know off the top of my head if there was cannibalization at East Hartford any more than we would have modeled which we model in every store.
We’ll go next to Mark Smith with Feltl and Company.
I’m not sure if you talked about this but can you just talk about sales in your Canadian stores excluding currency and what you’re seeing up there and any issues and what you can do that… Yes I mean I would tell you the Canadian store obviously the biggest challenge we’ve got in Canada it's just in Edmonton.
But I will tell you even after the cannibalization that’s well in line with where we needed it to be.
That was one of our highest -- the old store was one of our highest productive stores per square footage.
And but even outside of that comps in Canada were down slightly just some of those are oil -- somebody asked me a question earlier about oil related issues.
I think that’s where we’re seeing it is in some of these Canadian stores even outside of Edmonton.
I don’t imagine that you’re losing cannibalization people driving across the border and spending Canadian dollars here though? I’m sorry I’m not sure I understand your question but I said earlier in our comments.
Some of our stores in the U.S.
near the border are comping down and that’s one of the challenges.
Second can you talk about just giving us an update on where you are on cutting cost out of new stores and kind of what that model looks like and any improvements that you’re seeing? We’ve got teams of people that are continuing to work on improving processes.
I’m sorry do you mean operating cost or capital cost or both? Capital cost.
We’ve got it’s funny we got teams of people that are looking at every square foot of the store and justifying its existence for lack of a better word the equipment that’s there how big it is and we think there’s more to come there sort of as Tommy mentioned the spirit of continuous improvement.
And when Ralph says to the square foot he’s not exaggerating that is the methodology.
And then lastly sorry if you hit this one already but talking about ammo been up where was the firearm comp? Down slightly more than the consolidated U.S.
comp but sequentially improving as you would expect.
We’ll go next to Steve Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
In the past you’ve given us comp sort of quarter-to-date could you help us understand where you’re tracking right now? Yes in an earlier question Steve you might have just jumped on quarter-to-date comps are consistent U.S.
comps are consistent with the first quarter trend.
And Canada sort of similar as well? Yes.
Got it.
And then traffic in ticket for the overall comp was it similar to the U.S.
composition I don’t have the Canada number in front of me.
I have to get it for you.
I just don’t have it.
It’s – we’ll get it for you.
All right fair enough.
I’ll follow up on that offline.
And then just on the promotional environment.
It sounds like maybe there’s still some promos going on.
Can you sort of talk about what you’re seeing there and how that’s playing out? It’s just slightly more -- not dramatically more at this point other than that first week of the first quarter it’s been a little more promotional but not dramatically more promotional.
And is that that who’s driving that.
Is it still mom and pops or it’s more the national guys? I would say it’s just across the board depending on category.
We’ll go next to Scott Hamann with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Tommy just following up on some of the firearms and ammo questions can you kind of talk specifically about what you’re seeing promotional environment within those categories? Scott actually nothing out of the ordinary.
It seems to have returned to more normal levels.
In fact Ralph and I laughed at for all the noise that guns and ammo were in the last two years.
It’s just another category now as its come back to just kind of normality it’s just another category.
And then maybe Ralph can kind of give us an update.
You kind of give us the legacy store where those were running on guns and ammo and what kind of run-rate by year.
Can you give us an update on that? Yes I mean -- yes it’s in -- the analysis you’re referring to is I’ve got a chart I keep track of the 26 stores that were open in 2008 and how guns and ammo are running there.
It’s in line with what we talked about earlier that guns are down slightly and ammos up.
Are they running at levels that are still at 2010-‘11? Yes.
I’m sorry that’s with respect to guns higher than that with respect to ammo.
And then just within the gun category can you kind of talk about what you’re seeing in terms of shift down to lower price points or if there’s still higher price point? What’s kind of moving in those categories? I think we’re seeing really good movement in traditional hunting and target shooting shotguns kind of at all categories Bolt-Action Rifles are good.
We are starting to see movement again in Modern Sporting Rifles and handgun activity continue to see ongoing strong performance in small frame 380 handguns and I suspect that’s just coming from new participants in the sport.
The 380 is a great entrance level gun before they step up to 1911 or something bigger.
So I mean the gun business is just returning to normal trends.
We’re not seeing any downward movement that would be noteworthy? And do you feel good about your ammo inventory across most of the calibers? Yes I do we could still use a little more rimfire but that’s even getting better.
And what I feel really good about Scott is as we are coming back to normal times in guns and ammo the breadth of our assortment in ammunition I think makes us the go to place in retail for ammo and as we build more stores that’s more of an opportunity for us to capture share in new markets.
And was this M855 noise just kind of a short lived phenomenon in the quarter? It was noisy in the media.
Those categories are tiny and insignificant in our assortment.
I mean we didn’t like the whole idea of the government doing what they try to do but it was tempest in a teapot that had no material impact on our business.
I think in previous conversations I described it was interesting for a couple of weeks.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the question and answer session.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody.
We look forward to talking to you again soon.
And ladies and gentlemen once again that does conclude today’s call.
We do appreciate everyone’s participation.