Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Cabela's Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.
I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded.
And I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Andrew Weingardt Investor Relations Manager.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I welcome everyone listening today both on the conference call and by webcast.
A replay of today's call will be archived on our website at www.cabelas.com.
With me on today's call are Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer and Ralph Castner Cabela's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements.
These statements are made on the basis of our views and assumptions as of this time and are not guarantees of future performance.
Actual events or results may differ materially from those statements.
For information about certain factors that could cause such differences investors should consult our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on our website including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.
Additionally this conference call will include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to our website to find reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
Now I will turn the call over to Tommy Millner Cabela's Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Andy and good morning everyone.
While our third quarter revenue performance was below expectations we were pleased with strong performance in several core merchandise categories and solid performance from Cabela's CLUB.
During the quarter we began the implementation of several substantial and sustainable expense management and balance sheet optimization initiatives.
The expense initiatives provide long-term SG&amp;A leverage opportunity with the balance sheet initiatives providing strong support for our share repurchase program.
First let's discuss comparable store sales.
With consolidated comp store sales down 4.2% or down 3.1% on a constant currency basis and U.S.
comp store sales down 3.3%.
Positive comp store sales in our camping powersports home and gifts firearms and ammunition categories were more than offset by softness in our fall apparel footwear and hunting categories.
We have seen continued softness in our apparel categories as our fall assortments have been met with unseasonably warm weather across most of our major markets.
To combat softness in our apparel and footwear categories we have taken a number of actions.
We've tested national brand shops in an increased number of stores.
Currently this is a test in 25 locations and the results indicate no gross margin rate loss versus our base stores greater productivity in sales per square foot and higher penetration of casual apparel sales versus the base.
We plan to increase store count in this test in 2016.
Secondly we will be testing alternate labor strategies in our apparel areas to provide better sales coverage during peak selling times.
Lastly our plan for 2016 assumes a greater focus on everyday value in the better part of our assortment.
Our new format stores continue to outperform our legacy stores in both sales and profit per square foot and we're able to post better comparable store sales than our legacy stores in the third quarter.
The U.S.
stores we opened this year have underperformed our expectations.
As a result we believe it appropriate to slow new store growth over the next two years.
I am pleased to report that we have dedicated teams addressing a number of performance and profit improvement opportunities and that we have already disclosed corporate overhead reduction initiatives and balance sheet optimization initiatives that give us confidence in our ability to achieve 225 North American retail locations while generating acceptable returns on invested capital.
With our continued expansion into new markets it is important to note that during the quarter we saw little to no impact on our comp stores from either cannibalization or competitive incursion.
For the quarter direct revenue decreased 7.9% as a result of softness in our fall apparel and footwear categories ongoing declines in direct ammunition sales as our customer ship back to making ammo purchases in our retail stores and the continued headwind from new retail square footage.
For the quarter we were particularly pleased to see continued direct channel growth in our camping category.
Our strategy behind this year's introduction of a new camping assortment has been extremely successful and gives us confidence in our ability to replicate this success across the assortment.
For the quarter merchandise margins decreased 70 basis points as compared to the same quarter a year ago.
The decrease was primarily due to a more aggressive pricing and markdown cadence and headwinds from merchandise mix with lower sales penetration in soft goods and higher sales penetration in hard goods.
Operating profit decreased by 170 basis points for the third quarter primarily as the result of an increase in certain fixed costs such as incentive compensation and new store cost as well as increased severance costs as a result of the reduction in head count here at our corporate office.
This painful yet necessary cost reduction is one of many strategic initiatives that have been identified and incorporated throughout our business.
Additional cost savings opportunities include IT process improvement indirect procurement retail labor optimization merchandise sourcing retail support functions and supply chain enhancements some of which we've already actioned.
The results of these initiatives will drive meaningful improvement across the organization and we expect to leverage SG&amp;A expenses as a percent of total revenue by 75 basis points to 150 basis points evenly spread over the next three years.
Now let's take a look at Cabela's CLUB which had another exceptional quarter and continued to build our base of extremely loyal customers.
For the quarter the average number of active accounts increased 6.6% and the average balance of credit card loans increased by 13.9% to $4.6 billion.
During the quarter we rolled out internally a new vision centered around being the world's best omni-channel retailer by creating intense loyalty for our outdoor brand through legendary products and customer service delivered by our highly engaged outfitters.
We plan to achieve this vision based upon six strategic focus areas growing top line sales growth of bottom-line profits through managing expenses innovate with new store formats invest in outfitters through expertise and diversity focus on customer satisfaction and grow the CLUB program aggressively with increased cardholder loyalty.
Additionally we rolled out our updated merchandise strategy focusing on the core components of our business.
These core merchandise initiatives include focus on hunters fishermen campers and recreational shooters and are consistent with the heritage and vision developed by our founders.
The final component of achieving our new vision was also rolled out during the quarter and is focused on the customer.
The four key pillars to this strategy include providing expertise experiences exceptional product and excellent values to each and every customer.
Now turning to earnings guidance.
With the revenue shortfall we experienced in the third quarter we have reevaluated our fourth quarter and full year expectations.
As a result we expect a high single-digit growth rate in revenue and approximately flat non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph Castner to review in more detail among other things performance of our Cabela's CLUB.
Thanks Tommy.
Despite growth in several key merchandise categories and strong performance from Cabela's CLUB during the quarter our revenue performance fell below expectations.
During the quarter we began the implementation of several balance sheet optimization initiatives aimed at reducing working capital and monetizing unproductive assets.
We expect these initiatives to assist in the financing of our most recently announced share repurchase plan as well as to drive meaningful improvements in generating free cash flow.
For the quarter revenue performance in our Retail and Direct segments came in below our expectations.
As a result we had negative incentive compensation expense of approximately $4.9 million as compared to negative incentive compensation expense of approximately $11.8 million in the third quarter a year ago.
For the quarter Financial Services revenue increased 13.3% to $123.6 million.
The increase in Financial Services revenue was primarily due to a 20.9% increase in interest and fee income and a 7.9% increase in interchange income.
Average active credit card accounts grew by 6.6% in the quarter to over $1.9 million.
For the quarter average credit card loans increased by 13.9% to approximately $4.6 billion.
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit card loans increased 14 basis points from the year ago quarter and were 1.70%.
During the quarter we saw a shift in the trends in delinquencies.
Greater than 30 day delinquencies were 0.79% as compared to 0.70% a year ago and greater than 60 day delinquencies were 0.47% as compared to 0.42% a year ago and greater than 90 day delinquencies were 0.25% as compared to 0.22% a year ago.
During the quarter we increased our reserve for loan losses by $11.2 million as compared to an increase of $5.4 million in the same quarter a year ago as a result of the growth in the portfolio and the increase in delinquencies.
For the full year 2015 we now expect to increase the reserve between $15 million and $20 million.
As a reminder earlier in the quarter we completed a five-year term securitization in the amount of $400 million at Cabela's CLUB.
The securitization transaction included $240 million which accrues interest at a fixed rate of 2.25% per year $100 million which accrues interest at a floating rate equal to the one month LIBOR plus 67 basis points and three subordinated classes of notes for $60 million.
We expect to complete our next term securitization near the end of the first quarter of 2016.
We expect full year 2015 capital expenditures to be between $425 million and $475 million.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be between $275 million and $325 million for 2015.
As a reminder we executed a private placement transaction in August.
We drew $250 million in August and plan to draw $300 million in December with maturities of $100 million in five years $250 million in seven years and $200 million in 10 years.
Interest will be paid semi-annually at rates of 3.23% for the 5-year maturities between 3.70% and 3.82% for the 7-year maturities and between 4.01% and 4.11% for the 10-year maturities.
In addition to use for general corporate purposes we expect to use these notes in the repayment of unsecured notes for $215 million at 5.99% interest due on February 27 2016.
Now let's turn to inventory.
Inventory increased by 14% or $131 million year-over-year to approximately $1.1 billion.
We see improvement in inventory turns as a meaningful driver to balance sheet optimization going forward.
Before turning the call over to Tommy let me remind you of a few details pertaining to our 2015 expectations.
As part of the 2 million share repurchase program announced in April of 2015 we repurchased the remaining 1 million shares of common stock in open market transactions in the third quarter.
Additionally in September we announced the approval of an additional $500 million share repurchase program for our board of directors.
Through the end of the third quarter we repurchased approximately 170 000 shares or $8 million as part of the $500 million share repurchase plan.
Recall 2015 is a 53-week year.
This extra week will be recognized in the fourth quarter and we expect it to add $60 million to $70 million of merchandise revenue.
Financial Services revenue is not impacted as this is reported on a true calendar year basis.
Additionally we expect a $4 million insurance settlement in the fourth quarter of this year.
This settlement will offset operating expenses incurred throughout 2015.
As mentioned we've reevaluated our fourth quarter expectations.
As a result we expect a high single-digit growth rate in revenue and approximately flat non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for full year 2015 as compared to full year 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $2.88.
Now let me turn the call back over to Tommy for some closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Ralph.
While our third quarter revenue performance was softer than we had anticipated we are working diligently to implement initiatives across the organization that would generate improved performance in both revenues and profitability.
Before turning it over for questions I want to sincerely thank our outfitters for their continued commitment and passion in cherishing and delighting our customers every day throughout this time of change and restructuring.
You are truly the heart and soul of our organization.
With that Operator let's open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We'll go to Seth Sigman with Credit Suisse.
Thank you.
So a couple of questions here.
First as you look at the comp weakness in the third quarter just trying to understand what would actually happen there and how to be thinking about it for the fourth quarter.
A lot of talk about weather maybe you could give us a sense of how comps looked in each of the months and how business flow throughout the quarter as that seems to be the implication and then any early commentary on Q4 would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll be glad to Seth.
When we were on the call in late July we commented that comps had been consistent from the second quarter to the third quarter which meant that they were positive and we were pretty pleased with how the business was going.
July in fact finished that way.
So we had a good July and we're on trend.
And when we got into August and rolled our four sets to fall merchandise there was a pretty dramatic change in trend in those category so fall apparel and footwear and hunting products yet the spring goods and -- continued to perform really well throughout the third quarter.
So powersports home and gifts camping and our outdoor categories firearms and ammunition just kept on comping positively.
And we just felt like the consumer just in the months of August and September did not pivot to fall merchandise and it certainly felt like weather was a hell of a headwind.
In discussions with our major vendors we don't believe we are alone but what other people do is – is what other people do and we've got to make our company better but it was definitely a headwind.
It's difficult to give you specific commentary on August and September individually because the Labor Day shift into September really distorted the two months.
So we kind of look at them as two months as one month and it was really really tough in the fall merchandise categories and continue to be good in non-fall merchandise categories.
Those trends through a couple of weeks in the month of October have continued and are a reflective in our guidance change.
Okay.
And then a question on the 2015 store underperformance that you alluded to can you just elaborate on what you're seeing in those stores? Why are they underperforming? Is it something competitive? Are there specific categories within those stores that are underperforming more than others? And then how do you think about opening stores in 2016 based on that? I guess what gives you confidence? Well first of all we've seen – there's no one answer there's a lot of factors if there is one common theme it's probably that drive times aren't what we planned on in our original business case we've seen that drop off to some extent.
And first of all they're not all underperforming there's various degrees of where each of the stores sit.
For example certainly from a top line perspective our Canadian stores are performing really well but the drive time has shrunken a little bit relative to our expectations and we'll go ahead and continue to make adjustments going forward into 2016.
What we did in 2016 is we tried – we had two factors going on as we started thinking about cutting out stores I mean we tried to – obviously some of the stores that opened early in the years were still far along it was hard to make a change.
But then we try to eliminate those stores that we thought had the greatest risk of success.
So we went from 11 to 7 we think we've got – we de-risked those to some extent and we'll look forward to some of the improvements Tommy talked about with respect to how we have the stores aligned when we roll for our merchandise.
Those are some improvements we're going to make as we go into 2016.
I mean I guess the follow up question there would be the seven stores that you are committed to opening next year I mean what are characteristics of those stores that are different than the stores you opened in 2015 that are underperforming? I would tell you...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They tend to be smaller.
I think that's the more common theme.
Well I think they're smaller and I don't want to go into lot of details because we haven't communicated all the communities and all the developers when we're going to open – what stores we're going to open in 2016.
But I would tell you the theme they're smaller markets and they're markets we think we have a greater likelihood of success.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Matt Nemer with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So on the new store topic I'm just curious how you think this impacts I know you're not giving 2016 guidance.
But do you have any sense right now on how this could impact CapEx over the next few years? Well obviously it's going to go down.
We haven't – we've not rolled up our CapEx budget for 2016 yet but obviously it will be significantly less than it was in 2015.
I'm not – I can't give you specific range yet Matt.
Okay.
And then in terms of your comment about the drive times I'm just wondering if you can give us any data about the legacy stores the old stores.
I mean it would seem like they also have been kind of slipping a little bit over time.
Just wondering if you think that those are also becoming less productive and maybe there is some structural things that need to be worked out with that class? I mean – I don't think so.
I mean the stores we've opened in our next generation stores are comping better than the legacy stores.
But we don't – I wouldn't say to the point that we think it's a problem.
The deviation is not that great.
Now there is no question some of those superstores I mean have been impacted by others of our stores in the area one of which is Hamburg has been impacted by our store in Christiana Delaware we'd planned on that.
But we haven't seen the drive time of the old stores come in – into such an extent that it's concerned us.
Okay.
And then just one more for me and I'll let somebody else jump in.
But can you just comment on the performance that you saw in markets that I would think would be a little less impacted by weather so your stores in Texas Louisiana South Carolina Georgia I realize there's still a fall season but I'm thinking maybe the temperature deviation is a little lower in those markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Matt what we – what we did see during the quarter particularly in the month of September where in markets around the country from east to west and north to south it did get cold for a few days before immediately warming up and it was quite amazing to watch the customer reaction to fall merchandise when it got cold.
It just didn't last as soon as it got warmer.
Okay makes sense.
Hey Matt.
Your question about geographic dispersion I don't know that I see a trend as I look across the stores.
I mean some of our Texas stores some of them are comping positive and some aren't.
So I don't – specifically as it relates to Texas our stores – some of our southern stores are comping positive I guess that could go to the weather issue but there are some in the south that are also comping negative so...
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks guys.
We'll go to Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
This is actually Jon on for Peter this morning.
Thanks for taking our questions.
Maybe just first to take Matt's question a little bit further I guess on geography can you comment at all on kind of how your oil markets did in the quarter? And then also have you seen a widening of that performance gap versus maybe some of your non-oil impacted stores? We don't have a lot of exposure in the oil patch.
No we're not in Houston and we're not in North Dakota we're not in Wyoming it kind of depends on your definition of oil patch.
Our Colorado stores are comping nicely.
Actually we have a store in Louisiana that's comping nicely.
So it's hard to identify depending upon your definition of oil it's hard to say that oil is driving it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say there was a bigger impact in our Northern tier Canadian border U.S.
stores that we've commented on for a couple of quarters as the currency flipped in Canada a lot of those stories in Washington in northern Montana in South Dakota all the way to Buffalo New York and probably even some stores in Michigan.
They have gotten more pressured because the Canadian traffic is not coming across the border because of the weakness of the currency.
That's been more impactful than the oil patch.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then I guess for my follow-on question.
It looks like your balance per active account was roughly 9% in the quarter which it looks like it took a pretty big step-up and actually was the strongest growth I think if I am looking at our model rate since 2007.
Does that have something to do with new stores coming out of the gate a little bit more slowly or is there maybe a little bit more extension of credit to customers and just how far do you see those balances kind of climbing over time? Well the trend we've seen over time with respect to balances let me – I think your number's a little high.
I was trying to – what I've got in my script is that average accounts were up – accounts were up 6.6% total receivables were up 39%.
So that would seem to give a growth rate of 7% or 8% instead of 9%.
But what we're seeing there is we're just seeing people way more likely to revolve on credit which is driving that business nicely and generally we're seeing that across to all FICO scores.
We did as we mentioned see an uptick in delinquencies this quarter some of that maybe related to more people wanting credit.
But the biggest thing is we're just seeing more and more people revolve and it's not necessarily store specific although our new stores are performing nicely from a card perspective.
Okay.
And then I guess just quickly lastly on the provision I know you gave some commentary around that.
You thought it was going to I think be $15 million or $20 million higher for the year I believe.
As you start to look into next year at a high level I mean would you continue to expect that provision to climb much higher? Well let me give you some cowboy math on the provision and which I think will be helpful in trying to figure out how to model that.
A year ago our allowance for loan losses was $52 million in the third quarter a year ago.
And the reason it went up as much as it did is basically you – it goes up in-line with portfolio growth which as I said earlier it was about 13%.
And then it went up again to the extent delinquencies went up.
And I know I'm taking percentage as a percentage here but if you take – I think the 30-day delinquencies that went from 0.7% a year ago to 0.79%.
Although that doesn't seem like a big increase it's still a 12% or 13% increase.
So if you take – start at $52 million take a 12% increase for the growth of portfolio and then another 12% or 13% for growth of delinquencies that's cowboy math how you get to an allowance today of $65 million.
So as you look forward to next year you would expect – it really – you absolutely would expect it to go up as it relates to card growth assuming delinquencies are constant and to the extent delinquencies change and I don't know if they will increase or decrease to the extent they increase or go up more than that.
What we've seen historically and I know there's – and I'm just defining historically as the last four or five years we've actually seen the portfolio growth be more than offset by declines in delinquencies and that's just starting to flip the other way a little bit.
We don't expect them to go up significantly; however you define significantly but as I've predicted for years a little bit like I see someday interest rates are going to go up but as I've said for years there will be an increase in delinquencies and I think we're starting to see it.
I went back and looked we've rarely had delinquencies be above 1% and we've rarely had charge-offs be above 2.5%.
So I think we'll see some slight increase in delinquencies and charge-offs over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Really appreciate the commentary and good luck in the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Tommy could you discuss the performance of some of the national brands in footwear and apparel let's say North Face Under Armour Columbia compared to the performance of the Cabela's branded product? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Dan we saw a consistent pressure across the soft goods and camo clothing complex same thing in footwear although footwear was down less than the apparel categories.
But we didn't see a meaningful difference.
In fact penetration of Cabela's branded product was actually up a 100 basis points in the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you weren't – Cabela's wasn't losing share to North Face and Under Armour all of the brands dropped apparently I guess for the same reasons.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Correct.
Inc.</span></strong> The second question following up on new store productivity in the previous conference call at the end of July I think that you guys thought this was maybe more some transitory issues.
There was no reason to dial back meaningfully on the store expansion.
Now with seven openings in 2016 I guess that's what the original thought was about 14 if you go back to the investor meeting back in March.
So I'm assuming about four of the stores that were cut out were Outpost right? Could you maybe talk about the...
Well first of all I don't want to talk a lot about specific stores to my comments earlier because in some cases we haven't notified anybody but they were not – no they were not necessarily Outpost stores.
We didn't have very many of those – I don't think we had any planned for next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No none planned for next year.
Inc.</span></strong> So you told us earlier the type of stores that you would open.
I guess smaller markets perhaps less competition.
But maybe you could discuss the type of real estate that Cabela's is reconsidering.
And then attempting to triangulate that with the goal of still 200 potential stores in the U.S.
It would just seem like that that number has to be less now.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't think so Dan.
I hope investors will sense that our actions to slow for the next two years are prudent given the performance that we've seen in these 2015 classes of stores.
We have a large number of actions in place as I mentioned in my formal comments that are looking at construction cost within the store customer experience within the store allocation of space within the box.
We've had a lot of success with these branded shops and how do they fit into the future strategy and I think what we view this as – it's as a pause to really make sure we understand why are the drive times tighter what we can do to mitigate that and really build a plan.
Because to continue building 14 stores a year with the data that we have until we get closer to actions which I believe we will do we think is the prudent thing to do.
So lots of work is going on inside the company which still – we're still confident based on those actions that we can build out over time to 225 stores but the pause to have a model that is far more predictable is really important.
Inc.</span></strong> Just the – my last question for now.
In your prepared comments you noted that competition was not a factor in the sales weakness.
I was curious as to why you're confident in that I mean one would think that if drive times are shortening during a cycle of declining gasoline prices that competition could very easily explain the weakness in sales trends? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well to accept the competition argument somebody would have to explain to me why we performed so well in so many important categories.
Because if competition is going to get us they're going to get us across the franchise.
They didn't get us in camping didn't get us in home and gifts didn't get us in powersports did not affect us in ammunition and certainly didn't affect us in firearms.
And yet where we did see the weakness you can just take it to the item level which I'll do for you.
We are priced very competitively in flannel shirts at $29.99.
It's 90 degrees most of the country in September.
It certainly felt like us – and especially my own store walks at our competitors my eyes told me we weren't competitively disadvantaged using that one example and I could give you 100.
So to me that gives me comfort that there – if a competitor was getting us they'd be getting us across the franchise and they're not.
Where we were soft is in fall categories where we had an exceptionally warm August and September if that helps.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
It does.
Thank you very much and good luck during the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Stephen Tanal with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I was hoping to just to be clear on the drive time issue for the new stores.
Can you explain that a little more? I'm just trying to understand exactly what you mean by that.
Well the way we measure it is how far from the store do you have to go to get two-thirds of your revenue.
And when we do a new store we look at how much – usually we looked at 30 60 and 90 mile concentric circles and have a model for how much of the sales we expect to get from each of those concentric circles.
And we're not – what we're seeing is that the average well distance is generally around that 50 minutes around the store where we get two-thirds of our business.
And outside of that we're not seeing the sales.
In some cases that is a factor that we're not seeing the sales that we expected to see.
Got it.
Okay.
By the way that's not universally true across all stores but that is a – I listed that as a common factor.
Sure.
And that makes sense.
And then can you talk about traffic tickets for us in the quarter please? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We don't measure traffic.
We measure transactions.
Sure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They were down 8% and ticket was up nearly 4% 3.8% to be exact.
And that's U.S.
only yeah? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
That is U.S.
only.
And just lastly to clarify the $4 million insurance settlement in 4Q is that in the EPS guidance? It is.
Okay.
Thank you.
And by the way Steve just to be clear on that that's to offset some items that we expensed in the P&amp;L during the first nine months of the year.
Got it.
Understood.
So for the full year it's a neutral.
Perfect.
We'll go to Rick Nelson with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Sounds like performance – store performance varies quite a bit from location to location.
Are all of the stores profitable at the store level? All of our stores are profitable at the store level yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the buyback program is that predicated on reducing working capital and selling these unproductive assets or would you do the buybacks in advance? Well first of all I'm not going to talk about the timing necessarily of when we're going to buy back stock.
I would not say a pre-requisite for buying the stock back is to execute on some of those balance sheet initiatives.
At least in my head how we got to the $500 million number in the first place was we feel comfortable going up one turn of leverage.
Now I've got an internal – a personal goal if you will to try to make that much less than going up one turn of leverage which is why we're working on a lot of the balance sheet things that we've been talking about.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And those unproductive assets...
I am sorry let me add one more thing to that though Rick.
We do have – and this will affect the timing too but we do have covenants that limit how much you can buy in a particular calendar year that we have to manage as we think about that too.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And what exactly are these assets that you're looking to divest? Well there is a lot.
But I'll give you a kind of three broad brushes of assets one of which is inventory.
Second is as you know we've got about $80 million of economic development bonds on our balance sheet that we're looking at that.
And then we've probably got – you can almost put them in – I think about them in $300 million or – three $75 million to $100 million kind of range numbers.
Inventory being one economic development bonds being another and then lastly is just real estate the biggest of which is we've got a letter of intent to close on some real estate that we acquired some time ago in Denver that we expect to close in the second quarter.
The real estate one is probably the smallest of the three and will take the longest amount of time to execute just given the nature of real estate markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Rick the real estate is non-store related.
It outparcels – the property in Denver that Ralph mentioned we don't plan to sell a store.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And no consideration of selling receivables at all? Well if you are looking at – thinking about outsourcing the bank the answer to that would be no.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
Thanks a lot and good luck.
We'll go to Chuck Cerankosky with Northcoast Research.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Quick question guys on the asset sales you just talked about.
So in each bucket Ralph you put a $75 million to $100 million range around each of them? Yeah.
I mean as a general rule yes.
Although the real estate would be – the real estate number could be below that.
Okay.
Now...
You can stretch to get real estate to be within $75 million to $100 million.
Okay.
And as you look at slowing down the pace of growth here any risk of – excuse me lease cancellation charges or charges related to commitments you've made to open stores at a particular time? There could be a small amount of that I mean some of the stores we've looked at may have some capitalized design cost so that kind of thing we'd have to look at.
In a couple of cases we've acquired real estate which would by the way go in the bucket of real estate we're looking at selling and whom – I don't know what we'll sell that for we will see.
Okay.
So I guess the answer to your question is – the answer is probably yes.
I would not expect it to be that meaningful of a number.
Now Tommy when you look at a couple of things going on with store sales you've got the seasonal factors around footwear and apparel but you also were disappointed with the sales performance of the new stores this year what specifically can you identify with these new stores that you could fix going forward now that they're open? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well thanks for asking that because we're doing a lot as you heard in my comments we have an overall initiative as a company that we're going to focus on in the next three years on the core which is both in presentation and product and expertise and everything we do.
We are going to deepen our focus on four critical areas the hunter the angler the camper and the recreational sports shooter.
So you're likely to see a lot more focus from our organization to include the stores on those categories and we think that can have a benefit.
We're also testing some alternate labor models that would give us expertise and consistent coverage on our apparel pads going forward and it stands to reason that if somebody's there selling we have a higher likelihood of actually selling something.
And then we talked at Analyst Day about a concept of exploding the middle which was really making sure that our value proposition our price value proposition in the better part of a good better best assortment was going to deepen dramatically.
And we are doing that as we speak.
We have some implications of that in our fall assortments.
Despite the warm weather and expect to expand that as we go to next year.
The last option is we want to – we are working on end-to-end product flow to include lessening the amount of task work that our retail outfitters have to do every day.
So they can spend more time selling and less time doing task which is really what they love to do.
So a lot's going on that will – if we're successful could help the new stores we've opened this year plus every other store we have in the assortment.
As you heard me say from our branded shop performance that has been very very encouraging and we're going to expand that dramatically next year in the spring.
And should I infer that the branded shops are going to have a sales person staffing them for most opening hours? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I wouldn't go that far because we're still testing those ideas.
But certainly we'd like to – in an ideal world we'd like to have far more coverage during peak selling times in critical parts of the store.
And that's at the reel bar in the fishing department all the way to footwear to the camo pad and to casual apparel and we're working on a whole bunch of things.
We are not just sitting on our hands hoping things get better.
And finally looking back to those economic development bonds Ralph do you expect those to be marketable at their carrying value on the balance sheet? Yes.
Thank you very much.
I will also tell you we're in the early process of that because our ex – nothing has led me to believe that they have a value other than that.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll go to Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Thanks.
So just on the fourth quarter implied earnings guidance I guess a $1.23 if you're saying $2.88 for the year.
I was just wondering if you could give us a little guidance on margins I mean you'd talked about previously kind of a flattish merchandise margin in the back half of the year with some vendor support factoring into that now – I mean obviously it would seem that you'll be taking some more aggressive markdowns than planned or have already taken those for the fourth quarter to clear some of the fall apparel and footwear but just wondering if you could provide some color or guidance around the margin profile for the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll even go broader than that and just kind of underscore the five things that drove our guidance assumptions for the balance – for the full year and implied for the quarter.
Those five things are we are not assuming any change from the third quarter comp trends.
We are assuming that the margin rate trends from this year will continue into the fourth quarter.
We are assuming about a 100 basis points of expense leverage implied as the extra week that we get this year and we are not assuming a material change in mix.
So I hope that's helpful.
And by the way another thing that's on that.
Considered in the guidance there is another pretty meaningful increase in allowance for loan loss in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just I mean it sounds like from all the different comments about the weather it sounds like the basic cadence of – those other areas that comp positively camping and motor sports and firearms and ammunition.
I mean it sounds like that basic trend didn't change that much in the third quarter overall? It didn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...which gives me the comfort I expressed earlier that it's hard to make – for me to make an argument that competition got to us because we didn't see a material changes in those categories where we really saw the hit was when we rolled to fall merchandise we just didn't see the customer shift at all all the way through the quarter.
Okay.
Okay got it.
Thanks Tommy.
We'll go to Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So guys I understand and appreciate the attention to capital allocation and the need for expense management is a – pardon me as I'm sure you appreciate SG&amp;A leverage may not materialize however unless you'd stabilize the store productivity.
So Tommy can you talk a little bit about where you are with respect to testing the plans to improve store productivity? Are you confident you can deliver it without compromising the merchandise margins? Just doesn't feel like there's a lot to hang our head on with respect to stabilization of the comps or even improvement in the comps? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Jim we have half the categories we sort of don't have a problem in at this point which is powersports home and gifts camping outdoors fishing was only down very slightly and firearms was positive and ammunition was positive.
So the efforts to focus on the fix are really focused in apparels and to my point we saw really encouraging results from the branded shops and we'll expand that in some form to all stores in the spring.
And that's kind of a big deal.
The labor test we're not deep enough to have a lot of confidence because the data points are small.
But they are really encouraging as well and it's hard for me believe that the deepening of value in the better part of our assortment can't have a real benefit.
For competitive reasons I'm reluctant to go into all the various effects of deepening our focus in our stores to our four primary categories and customers.
But we have a level of optimism there that that can have an effect and we're not going to test forever we're moving pretty rapidly on these things and I really look forward to updating everyone as we get into next year on what they're driving.
And all that being said gosh if we got a little burst of cold weather it would sure help a lot.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
And just thinking about the strategy to emphasize price value equation what type of increase in transactions would you need to offset what would seemingly be a compromise in ticket? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know I'd have to look at that because that'll happen more over – probably happen more over time with customers only shopping as two or three times a year.
We could see more of an impact yeah that – it would take the change in ticket and transactions could spread over – more over time.
But we're going to do everything we can do to drive more sales especially in the apparel side of the business through the initiatives that I talked to you about.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last question can you update us on thoughts on catalog distribution and catalog expense? Have you tested opportunities to manage that down? Is that an opportunity for expense relief in the P&amp;L? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think as you know over several years we have been refining our catalog strategy to mean fewer catalogs mailed more targeted to actually what the customer buys from us.
The catalogs have been smaller hence the irrelevant merchandise that was at the – in the last 10 pages of a lot of our catalogs five years ago and then the movement to some selective magalogs that have performed very well.
The net effect of that has been that we're spending less on catalogs today than we have in the past almost year-over-year.
But have used some of that money most of that money in our digital social media campaigns e-mail campaigns so it hasn't been a net reduction.
But certainly something we look at on an ongoing basis.
Hey Jim I think the short answer is we're looking at expense reductions is that that we're looking across the entire organization nothing's off the table.
I'm interested and we continue to get great ideas and processes that come out of woodwork.
One of them as it – specifically as it relates to catalogs that we're dealing with now is looking at print and paper prices.
We do think there is a definite opportunity there.
There may also be an opportunity as it relates to circ but across the organization we're continuing to find a lot of meaningful opportunities that we're realizing some of which we are going to realize in the fourth quarter most of which will be next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Very good.
Good luck to you guys in the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
Go to Mark Smith with Feltl &amp; Co.
Hi guys.
A handful of hopefully quick ones.
First looking at inventory in apparel and footwear how much of this needs to be cleared out if you get some cold weather here in late October-November? Would that clean up the impact and if we do get a big El Niño impact with warm weather how bad it could it be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Mark first of all the quality of our inventories are good and I think Ralph and I are confident that we have action plans in place over the next several months to clear goods.
It's interesting I'm kind of a weather nerd and I look at the projected El Niño effects and some could be helpful; some might not be.
They're calling for slightly warmer weather in the northern tier states but much colder and wetter from Texas all the way through the Mid-Atlantic and we have a lot of stores in Texas through the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast that if it gets cold and rainy or cold and snowy that's really great for our business.
So I would say it's kind of a mixed bag but a little bit of colder weather would really help us in the next four or five months clear inventory.
And as Ralph mentioned we have a number of other strategies to help us work through whatever inventory we have in soft goods.
Okay.
You were asked about oil markets that are maybe dependent.
Can you talk about markets and stores in big ag markets and if that's hurting you? Well a lot of our stores are in ag markets but I'm not you know again you don't see a constant theme.
I can pull out ag stores that are doing well and those that aren't.
Okay.
Can you guys quantify maybe a gun comp or guns and ammo how that looked during the quarter; can you quantify that? Without going into a lot of specificity both guns and ammo comp positive.
Okay.
And looking at powersports I believe that you guys put the newer tractor business in that is that correct? That's correct yes.
Excluding tractors are you still seeing positive comps there? Yeah.
Yes we are still seeing positive comps in powersports even outside of tractors.
Okay.
And I think my last question here.
You guys have given the kind of 2014 class of stores sales per square foot and four wall EBITDA margins.
Can you give us a sneak peek at maybe the delta to the 2015 class of stores on a sales per square foot or EBITDA margins? How big of a difference are we looking at between those two? Well I'm just not prepared to give – until those stores have been open for a year I'm just not prepared to give a number.
Because you don't know how they are seasonal relative to other stores for sure you want to get a full year under your belt before you start talking about the 2015 stores.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Like we don't have fall under our belt which is really important for us in the 2015 class of stores which could change the numbers up or down.
Okay.
Maybe I'll sneak in one last one then.
Growth in receivables you've been growing that at 12% 13% plus here.
As you slow the growth in store expansion do you expect that to slow as well? Well I think we've – I've spent a lot of time I think helping people through the correlation between square footage growth and receivables growth.
And there's no question they're correlated but as you know most of the growth in those receivables is going to be driven by stores we opened in 2013 2014 and 2015.
So I think the answer is that receivable growth probably peaks in 2016 just because you'll have the full year impact of all the stores we opened this year plus the 7 stores we open next year it probably peaks in 2016 or 2017 and then decelerates from there but we still think there is a long – even with fewer stores there is a long long tail on receivable growth.
Okay.
Excellent.
Thank you.
We'll go to David Magee with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Yeah.
Hi everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I was just still a little confused about the weather impact.
I sort of heard conflicting comments a bit.
If you had to put a number on the impact and we won't hold you to it but if we had to sort of put a number in terms of the impact of weather on that 3% down U.S.
comp would it be 2 points 3 points would you be willing to say? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's significant put it that way.
Okay.
Were those numbers significant? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Because it really – it's apparel it's hunting apparel it's men's and women's apparel hunting apparel and then we also saw a couple of hunting related areas like archery and optics that were also stressed because it makes sense if the customer is not coming in because it's 90 degrees outside he might not be buying a new scope.
But it was a significant impact.
And just to clarify to the extent it has been colder in the past couple of weeks in various places have you seen – you have been happy with the uptick in the volume? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well where we – it's been so isolated that as we saw in September where it did get cold there was a bump but it was not meaningful enough across 70-some stores across the geography of the United States to be a needle mover.
But for the stores that were impacted it was impactful? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's been helpful.
You bet.
Ralph could you remind us what the current value is of the real estate overall that you guys owned? Yeah let me look.
I can tell you what the book value is.
Give me a second to look it up...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey David while Ralph's looking I just want to be clear on real estate as part of our balance sheet optimization we don't have any plans to permanently close stores but I wouldn't rule out an option that we could relocate a store or two in the next three years and that's just normal course of business.
I just want to make the point we're not – we don't see a need to shut down any stores.
Sure.
I don't have just the real estate piece of it the total fixed asset is $1.8 billion that's all fixed assets it strikes me.
I've always thought $1 billion was sort of a round number for the real estate part? That feels a little high to me but I think it's about half of that.
So call it – I don't know $800 million something like that.
Okay.
$800 million as a book value? Again I'll have to check it's just – call me offline we break that out in the K and I'd have to go back and look at it it's just not in the Q.
Okay.
And then just last question with regard to the vendor shop test over time would you see that vendor is participating in the investments of those shops? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I'd probably prefer not to go to what our arrangements are with our vendors but obviously they've seen the results and are pretty pleased and they've been supportive of our actions.
As they have for a long period of time and I'd probably leave it at that.
Okay.
Great.
Good luck.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll go to Kristine Koerber with Barrington Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Couple of questions.
First with a follow-up on the inventory question I mean where – how should we think about inventory year-end I mean you ended the quarter up 14% it sounds like inventory has been in a decent position as far as being clean.
What do you expect at year end? Well I don't know that we've got the number in front of me but we – last year we had $760 million of inventory and we've been running I don't know 10% or 15% above that.
So I don't know wherever that puts at $800 million $850 million something like that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
We're in the process right now of looking at working through some of that inventory but it's going to take time we're certainly not going to have a fire sale in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's what I was getting to.
So this is – we're talking a couple of quarters to really get through the inventory assuming everything plays out the way you're expecting it to especially as far as weather.
I might even tell you through the end of – I mean a lot of this is good merchandise some of which – some of the hunting apparel we might hold over 'til fall of 2015 or fall of 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Because they are ongoing programs that aren't going to go away.
I mean the beauty of our business Kristine as you know is a blaze orange hunting vest it doesn't have a lot of fashion risk with it.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as far as store growth is it safe to assume that you'll resume your store growth plans kind of that million – 1 million square of footage in 2018? We're not prepared to comment on 2018.
I mean I at least view one of my major responsibilities is to make sure that we're good stewards of our shareholders capital and we will deploy when we think we can give returns that are attractive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if I think about the guidance it sounds like a lot of assumptions went into the guidance.
I mean what would be the biggest risk for you not to hit the flat EPS or even high single-digit revenue number? Well I think the biggest risk is I mean basically from a margin and sales standpoint we assume that trends we saw in the third quarter continue to go in the fourth and probably the biggest the risk around that is probably obviously the merchandise – the risk or opportunity is in the merchandise sales line.
To the extent as we get closer to the holiday season if we see comps improve meaningfully from that there could be upside.
Conversely and although it seems hard to think that would be much worse than that but if they're worse than that that'd be the biggest risk.
The other place with a lot of volatility is around our card business.
The only thing there that seems like it could be a risk is if for some reason our allowance for bad debts was higher than what we forecasted on the provision and the balance sheet side because the charge-offs quite frankly don't vary enough over that shorter period of time to make much of a difference.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That business is pretty predictable 30 days or 60 days out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And that's helpful.
Thank you.
In the interest of time our last question will come from Lee Giardano with Sterne Agee CRT.
Thanks.
Just a quick one guys.
On the branded shop-in-shops will that translate into reduced Cabela's branded product penetration and increase brands in those stores? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Not necessarily.
It may in some stores but not in others.
In some stores we may increase assortment in branded product and less on assortment in Cab branded product but in other stores it simply going to be where we place Cab brand on the pad versus where we place the branded shop.
And as I commented in the shops that we have tested if you're concerned about margin rate there has been no rate degradation in the test.
And in fact we've gotten the higher productivity in sales per foot versus the base stores.
So if that's helpful...
Yeah.
That's helpful.
And just one more follow-up.
We've seen very strong card growth over the past couple of years here.
Would you anticipate lower growth in cards with lower square footage growth in the coming years? Well I think I already addressed that question which is given that – given the tray given where we are in store count what will drive card growth is the stores we've opened in 2012 to 2015 timeframe.
So I could actually see it accelerating a little bit next year and then decelerating over time just as those stores mature but it will decelerate at a very slow rate.
Great.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> We just like to thank everyone for joining us and we'll talk to you soon.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate you being on the call.
Thank you.
You may disconnect.