Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgments as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the second quarter.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
We'll also have reports from CB&amp;I's core operating groups: Lasse Petterson for Engineering Construction and Maintenance; Chip Ray for Government Solutions; Dan McCarthy Technology; and Luke Scorsone for Fabrication Services.
These operating executives will individually provide the narrative for each of our reporting segments followed by Ron who will summarize our financial results for the quarter.
And of course the entire group will address your questions following these opening remarks.
But first I have a few comments on the quarter and the outlook for the second half of the year.
Overall it was a strong quarter and we're very pleased with the results from operations.
Backlog is performing well and we continue to book a diversified blend of new work across the board while the mix with a type and value of the new business is consistent with our original sales outlook for the year.
And as you'll hear in more detail from the operating groups our total sales for the quarter was a solid mix of underpinning work distributed throughout each reporting segment combined with larger new backlog projects and added scope on existing projects.
And the back half of the year should look much like the first half in terms of general distribution and new awards.
Without naming specific prospects our expectation is that EC&amp;M or Engineering Construction and Maintenance will contribute over $6 billion of the remaining target with Fabrication Services adding another $2 billion and the remainder of the new work coming from Technology and Government Solutions.
Geographically over 45% of the new awards should be in the U.S.
with Australia Asia Pacific and the Middle East contributing the remaining opportunities for the year.
The prospects from our end markets indicate that over 30% of the remaining new awards in the second half of the year will come from LNG.
Nearly 20% from petrochemicals another 20% from power and plant services and with oil sands gas processing and refining making up the other new EC&amp;M projects.
Fabrication Services and Government Solutions each has about 10% of total with Technology contributing the remainder of the new awards of the year.
Now despite some significant LNG awards that didn't materialize this year the pipeline of new work supports the original guidance and our confidence of winning this work is very high.
Now what we see at midpoint of the year however is a question of whether a combination of government approvals funding decisions and contract negotiations for some major projects can all happen before the end of the year.
And of course we'll continue to maintain our discipline of not booking backlog until the project is approved funded and we have a commercial commitment.
So given this possible timing issue we're confident the $11 billion to $15 billion adjusted guidance has a higher probability for award this year and we hope to land in the upper half of that range at year's end.
And of course a reminder our 2013 guidance for EPS remains unchanged at $4 to $4.25 with revenue guidance unchanged at $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
Now a couple of comments about the integration of the 2 companies.
It's hard to believe that it was 1 year ago from this date that we announced the acquisition of the Shaw Group.
And I have to say we're very pleased with the progress to date on the combination of the 2 companies.
The organization structure has proven itself to be a rational and understandable model for our employees customers and shareholders.
Our business model which mitigates the volatility inherent with EPC earnings by creating more diversification of predictable and higher-margin revenue streams is delivering as expected.
The safety cultures of the 2 companies have been blended on over 63 million man hours worked to date with an incident rate of 0.06 for lost time accidents for all projects offices labs and fab shops around the world.
This relentless focus on safety keeps us on the upper tier of all major companies in our industry and remains one of our key competitive advantages in all of our end markets.
But in general the lines between the 2 companies have faded much faster in these short 10 months than we had anticipated and I think that shows in our results.
But we'll continue to focus and work hard on the challenges and ensure that we capitalize on every opportunity to continue to improve performance and drive shareholder value.
One other important item I want to mention before I turn it over to my colleagues.
As you know there was a tragic explosion at the Williams ethylene cracker facility on June 13 where 2 Williams employees were killed.
CB&amp;I had over 650 employees working on the site as part of the expansion project and while experiencing multiple injuries from burns and other related incidents thankfully everyone was accounted for.
Williams management discussed the incident in detail during their June 26 earnings call so we'll not be repeating any additional information here other than to say to the families of all the Williams employees and certainly our own that you're in our thoughts and our prayers.
We've resumed work at the site and are assisting Williams on the plans to have the facility safe and fully operational as soon as possible.
So let's turn to the operating group results.
First Lasse will discuss Engineering Construction and Maintenance.
Lasse? Thank you Phil.
Today I give you my comments on key initiatives markets and opportunities in the Engineering Construction and Maintenance operating group with a brief update on some of our larger ongoing projects.
But to start I'd like to highlight a few major initiatives currently in progress as part of our continued integration of acquired businesses into CB&amp;I.
As Phil was saying safety is a core value in CB&amp;I and we continue to have a robust industry-leading safety record.
CB&amp;I's proven HSE systems procedures and initiatives are being reinforced and implemented throughout the organization with particular focus on bringing in our acquired businesses into the CB&amp;I's safety platform.
We also strengthened our nuclear safety culture in all parts of CB&amp;I that are involved in delivering services and projects to the nuclear industry.
In addition we continue to implement our CB&amp;I management systems or CMSs in all operations to standardize processes systems and tools to support project execution and reduce risk.
Finally we continue to identify revenue synergy potentials between all the business units in CB&amp;I.
For instance we are evaluating the opportunities to expand the geographic presence of the power and plant services business units capitalizing on CB&amp;I's global footprint.
And we are continuing to leverage the opportunities in the refining of petrochemicals markets between technologies and our EPC businesses and we are utilizing Fabrication Services for fabrication of pipes modules and storage solutions on all projects.
Moving to our oil and gas business units where the markets continue to be healthy.
New awards in the quarter was coming from additional work on ongoing projects as well as a number of new engineering studies and projects.
For LNG we continue to see project economics conducive to new LNG developments going forward globally.
In the United States we are particularly encouraged by the recent decision from the Department of Energy to resume issuing licenses to export LNG from the United States to non-FTA free trade agreement countries.
This will enable conversion of existing LNG import terminals many of which has been built by CB&amp;I to export terminals and give CB&amp;I new opportunities to build LNG liquefaction projects.
The Freeport project received their non-FTA export license last quarter and CB&amp;I's performing the FEED study on this project together with our partner Saccharin and we're optimistic on the possibilities of participating in that EPC phase of the project.
Increasing activity is also evidenced in the offshore markets where CB&amp;I is currently performing Topsides engineering work for several projects for the North Sea and for Brazil.
We are actively pursuing EPC opportunities for Topsides modules for both fixed platforms FPSOs and for floating LNG solutions.
In the U.S.
the development of shale gas has not only enabled LNG exports it has also significantly increased the need for new gas processing and petrochemical projects.
As previously mentioned we are executing a major ethylene expansion plant -- ethylene plant expansion in Geismar Louisiana for Williams.
And we are engaged in licensing and engineering studies for additional petrochemical facilities that can convert into EPC projects.
At our oil sands projects in Canada the Kearl Expansion project and the interconnect pipe rack construction activities in the field and at our module yard continue to advance ahead of schedule.
In Papua New Guinea construction of the gas conditioning plant in the highlands is progressing according to plan.
The Komo Airfield is open and we are receiving daily flights of the Antonov planes delivering major equipment to the site.
Currently we have more than 2 500 craft working in the site.
And to date we have worked more than 12 million hours on the project without a lost-time injury.
On the Gorgon project we are progressing the MEI works in accordance with current plans.
As reported earlier we have experienced some delays mobilizing to Barrow Island due to delays experienced by the declines of civil contractor installing foundations and underground cables.
However we are confident to start increasing our manpower on the island in the next quarters.
Finally the REFICAR refinery project in Colombia for Ecopetrol continued at full force with more than 10 000 craft at site.
We have experienced a few days of labor unrest this month which has had no significant impact on the exceptional progress we have had the last months installing piping modules and equipment at the site.
The REFICAR project is a good illustration of our capability to safely deliver integrated EPC projects to our clients with a full spectrum of services offered by CB&amp;I including licensing of technology FEED and detail engineering procurement fabrication piping and modules and construction.
We have executed more than 42 million man-hours to date on the project without a lost time incident which is unsurpassed in the Americas.
Turning to power this quarter certainly brought new and exciting opportunities within air quality control system services for First Energy and Mercury and Air Toxics Standards MATS for Entergy and new plant services awards.
In June the President's climate action plan guidelines were applauded [ph] proposing new emission standards for power plants.
CB&amp;I bring years of experience with AQCS retrofits with over 40 000 megawatts of installed power generation in the past 10 years positioning us well to capitalize on this market.
During the quarter critical milestones for each on our nuclear projects.
We installed the bottom head of the containment vessels and the nuclear islands for both the Vogtle and the V.C.
Summer Nuclear Projects each bottom head weighing in excess of 1 000 tons.
In addition work was begun on the cooling towers on both sites.
As reported last quarter by a blind [ph] scanner on the V.C.
Summer project we have updated our EPC execution plans to reflect the latest module fabrication schedules from the Lake Charles fabrication yard targeting completion of the first reactor in 2017.
We also did in discussions with our clients southern company to settle the outstanding commercial issues on the Vogtle project.
Wrapping up we continue to have strong performance on our major projects and we are optimistic about our new project opportunities in all our key markets.
Phil? Thank you Lasse.
Next we'll hear from Chip Ray who will results from Government Solutions.
Chip? Thanks Phil.
The second quarter was very busy for Government Solutions.
Our financial results showed some encouraging trends but at the same time we identified several areas where we can continue to improve the group's performance.
To address these improvement opportunities we began implementing a number of strategies during the quarter which were designed to positively affect both our top line and our cost structure.
Before diving into those specific initiatives I'd like to set the stage by providing an overview of our financials our operational performance and some of the key trends we're seeing in the market.
Revenue for the quarter was on track due to the diverse mix of work across our primary business clients.
A large number of projects contributed to the quarter's results ranging from small but critically important environmental compliance work to very large EPC projects of international importance for the federal government.
The value of the quarter's new awards exceeded our revenue burn leading to a book-to-burn ratio of approximately 1.1.
So despite the negative short-term impact of sequestration our new award momentum provides some positive indicator that our clients truly recognize the value of CB&amp;I's business model.
We are strengthening our brand with our government clients.
And although it's been less than 6 months since the acquisition was completed the focus we're placing on business development is beginning to pay dividends.
Now another example of the momentum we see is the new award we signed earlier this month for approximately $150 million for an environmental project in the Western United States.
When coupled with the underpinning of small projects that Government Solutions typically receives on an ongoing basis we're off to a good start to the back half of the year.
Operating income.
Operating income showed a noticeable improvement over the first quarter's results and is within the forecast range of 3% to 6% but it's at the bottom end of the range and definitely below what our team recognizes we can achieve.
Over time the 3 factors that have the greatest impact on the group's operating income are new awards -- new awards were late [ph] over the past year but they improved this quarter; overhead -- for the current size of the group overhead is excessive but we have a plan in place; and project performance.
Our projects are generally meeting expectations with a few challenges due to sequestration.
During the quarter several of our larger projects received a fair amount of coverage most specifically discussions over the funding level for the MOX project continued in Washington.
Now that the new Energy Secretary has been confirmed we have been working with Secretary Moniz and his staff to analyze the impact of various funding levels on the overall cost and schedule of the MOX program.
This year revenue from MOX will be more than $0.5 billion.
At this stage we shouldn't speculate as to what the ultimate funding level will be for 2014 but there may be a reduction when compared to 2013.
When analyzing our overall operations I'm particularly proud to report that the group executed another quarter without a lost time accident.
Given the large portfolio of projects and the often hazardous conditions our employees encounter this is a tremendous achievement.
It's also a leading indicator of project success both in meeting our clients' needs and in delivering the financial performance our shareholders expect.
There are 2 strategic initiatives that I'd like to highlight today which were -- we implemented during the quarter and will have a significant role of positioning for the future.
First we restructured each of the groups business units based on the services we provide or the clients we serve.
This organizational approach wasn't feasible prior to the business becoming part of a larger company.
But now with CB&amp;I's geographic footprint and complete breadth of offerings we can pursue the target markets in a manner that allows us to selectively capitalize on higher profit opportunities and prioritize our resources accordingly.
Second we recently initiated plans to consolidate many of our functional resources into a central location driving increased efficiency and operational effectiveness.
With the support of the state of Louisiana we are creating an efficient overhead cost structure that will further increase our competitiveness and an overhead cost structure that is flexible to support our future growth.
In summary while there is still a level of uncertainty about government funding and priorities the Government Solutions operating group is on track to continue to grow margins revenues and new awards and enhance CB&amp;I's unique business model.
Phil? Thank you Chip.
Dan McCarthy will provide the overview of technology.
Dan? Thank you Phil.
The technology group had a very active second quarter.
The financials which Ron will cover show high revenues and earnings as we work through the backlog generated by our group over the last 2 years.
To appreciate the level of new awards activity we have to look at both the consolidated value reported in the financials and CLG's activity.
Demand for CLG products continues to exceed expectations with bookings greater than $125 million for the quarter.
The technology group achieved some important milestones in the second quarter.
First -- foremost is the closing of the E-Gas technology acquisition.
E-Gas is the trade name for an advanced coal gasification technology that had been owned by Phillips 66.
We believe there is great potential in Asia for this technology.
At the time of the acquisition E-Gas was designing facilities for Reliance Industries of India and POSCO the large steel producer in Korea.
Since the closing we've signed a license with a major energy company in China.
In addition to the license and engineering revenue E-Gas generates revenue from proprietary equipment.
During the quarter we also successfully commissioned 2 new products.
The first is the CDAlky process for the production of clean high octane gasoline blend stock from low value C4s.
Our process is based on a novel static mixing technology that reduces catalyst consumption and generates higher octane product.
We have 2 additional plants under construction and believe the technology will penetrate the market rapidly.
The second new product is our pressure swing absorption technology for hydrogen purification.
This aligns with our petrochemical technologies which produce hydrogen as a valuable byproduct.
This product is delivered as a skid-mounted solution through Lummus engineered products.
We've also completed our major upgrade at the Pasadena site this quarter.
The project had 2 major objectives: the automation of CD module manufacturing; and the consolidation of R&amp;D activities.
Both have been successfully completed.
The R&amp;D activities will benefit from an increase in available space as well as the industrial classification of the site.
Plans to build new pilot plant systems are underway.
The timing of some new technology licenses in the petrochemical space slipped to the second half of the year.
This is especially true in olefins and aromatics [ph].
We continue to work with these customers in the early phases of engineering and expect there will be a push to launch these projects before year end.
We also continue to have a substantial volume of here work [ph] associated with previously awarded ethylene licenses that has not yet been contracted.
The refinery side is driven by lube and hydrocracking projects as well as catalyst rebeds [ph].
We are also seeing gasoline desulfurization projects being developed to meet Tier 3 specification.
Tier 3 specification requires sulfur in gasoline to be reduced to 10 ppm.
We have developed attractive solutions to modify existing gasoline desulfurization plants to meet the new requirements.
In conclusion the technology group is off to a great start in 2013.
We remain confident in our markets and expect to exceed last year's income from operations.
Importantly we firmly believe our strategies will develop CB&amp;I's long-term growth objectives.
Thank you.
Thanks Dan.
Luke Scorsone will now talk about Fabrication Services.
Luke? Thank you Phil.
The Fabrication Services operating group had a strong second quarter.
Fabrication Services end markets remain robust both domestically and internationally.
These markets are strengthened through shale gas petrochemical and LNG developments.
These developments are resulting in contracts to Fabrication Services for natural gas liquids storage and terminals pressure spheres and prefabricated pipe spools.
Presently CBI has more domestic sphere contracts than in any other time in our long history.
Yesterday's announcement of the $270 million propane terminal and the first quarter award of an ethane terminal both for Sunoco Partners stem from the natural gas liquids market associated with the shale gas and petrochemical developments.
Fabrication Services was awarded during the second quarter a pipe spool fabrication contract for a major LNG project in Australia building upon CBI's strong footprint there.
We are in negotiations with several major petrochemical and integrated oil companies for long-term supply framework agreements for plate structures and fabricated pipe spools.
Fabrication Services is working closely with the company's other operating groups to enhance CBI's overall competitiveness and further strengthen project delivery certainty.
Operationally we made solid progress in a key -- achieved key milestones on several projects.
The roof of the LNG tank for the AP LNG project in Australia was successfully put into position ahead of schedule.
Using a technique developed and perfected by CB&amp;I the 1 000-metric-ton roof was lifted over 130 feet in the air using slight air pressure in the storage tank.
The LNG and related storage tanks for the Papua New Guinea LNG export terminal are nearing completion.
Key pipe spool fabrication and pipe bending production stretch targets were achieved through the Keystone Pipeline project.
Fabrication is underway and construction is ramping up at both the Sadara tank farm project in Saudi Arabia and the AGL LNG peak-shaving facility in Australia.
The storage tanks for the POSCO tank terminal on the Houston Ship Channel are nearing completion ahead of schedule.
The POSCO terminal is the largest storage tank project in the United States.
Additionally during the second quarter a number of nuclear modules were delivered to the Vogtle and V.C.
Summer project sites from CBI's Lake Charles nuclear module fabrication facility.
Just under 100 modules have been shipped to those projects so far.
Module production is expected to ramp up in the latter half of 2013.
The backlog for Fabrication Services operating group at the end of the second quarter remains a good mix of domestic and international projects in the LNG natural gas liquids nuclear gas processing and petrochemical end markets.
The largest share of the backlog approximately 95% remains the higher-margin fixed-price and unit rate contract which Fabrication Services successfully executes.
The Fabrication Services operating group was well on plan to deliver solid margins capture domestic and international sales opportunities and enhance CB&amp;I's overall competitiveness and project execution.
Phil? Thanks Luke.
Ron Ballschmiede will now cover the company's financial results.
Ron? Thank you Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our solid financial performance for the quarter.
In order to focus on the ongoing company operation's operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the acquisition-related costs as set forth in more detail in our earnings release.
Revenue for the second quarter was $2.9 billion up $1.6 billion or more than double that of the second quarter of 2012.
The revenue increase reflects growth across each of our 3 legacy business units of $453 million or a very strong 35% over the comparable period.
This increase was driven by higher activity in our large projects and the execution of our higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
The balance of the revenue growth of $1.1 billion represents revenue from the acquired business units.
We expect increasing project activity in each of our operating groups to continue throughout 2013 providing sequential quarterly revenue growth.
We remain confident that we will achieve our previously announced full-year revenue guidance of $10.7 billion to $11.2 billion.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $297 million versus $159 million in the comparable 2012 quarter.
The increase was driven by the acquisition and higher revenues from each of our legacy business units.
Each of our operating groups continue to benefit from solid project execution and performed consistent with our expectation.
The decline in our second quarter gross margin to 10.4% from 12.2% in the second quarter of '12 reflects the changing relative revenue volume of our legacy business units and the acquisition.
Specifically and as we expected more than 70% of our legacy quarter-over-quarter consolidated revenue increase came from our oil and gas business unit which accounted for 62% of our historical consolidated revenue base.
The balance of the gross margin decrease is attributable to the acquisition which delivers an overall slightly lower gross profit percentage than our pre-acquisition metrics.
I'll come back and discuss changes in our revenue and operating income by operating group in a moment.
Selling and administrative expense increased to $93 million from $52 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The acquisition accounted for the vast majority of dollar increase.
While our integration and consolidation activities are continuing I can confirm that our Day 1 activities and our actions to date have exceeded the high end of our previously communicated annual cost synergy savings range of $30 million to $50 million.
Accordingly we expect our full year S&amp;A expense to benefit from these savings and our continued operating leverage.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.3% of revenues for the second quarter down 7/10 of 1% from 4% in the second quarter of 2012.
Further we expect our full-year 2013 S&amp;A expense to be approximately 3.5% of revenues down from 4.2% in 2012.
Intangible amortization totaled $16.1 million for the second quarter and we anticipate similar quarterly amounts for the balance of the year.
Our second quarter incremental intangible amortization result relating to our 2013 acquisitions was $12 million.
Acquisition-related costs for the second quarter of 2013 were comprised of severance and other one-time costs associated with the acquisition and totaled $10 million or $0.06 per share.
We continue to expect our full-year acquisition-related cost to be in the $80 million to $100 million range.
Second quarter adjusted income from operations was $195.4 million or 6.9% of revenue compared to $104 million or 8.1% of revenue in the second quarter of '12.
Our second quarter adjusted income tax rate was approximately 29% consistent with the second quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter rate benefited from previously unrecognized tax benefits realized in connection with the finalization [ph] of tax filings around the world during the quarter and we expect our full-year adjusted tax rate to be in the 30% to 32% range.
The summation of all that results in a second quarter adjusted net income of $112 million or for the first time in our history a triple-digit adjusted earnings per share of $1.04.
After including one-time acquisition costs of $0.06 per share our second quarter GAAP earnings are $0.98 per diluted share.
Our full-year adjusted EPS guidance remains unchanged at $4 to $4.35 per diluted share.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled just short of $0.25 billion for the second quarter or 8.6% of revenues compared to $121 million or 9.3% of revenues in the comparable 2012 quarter.
Now let me take you through the operating group's second quarter results.
Each of our group's second quarter 2013 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Specifically our annual operating performance expectations are in the range of 4% to 7% for EC&amp;M 8% to 11% for fabricated services and 3% to 6% for Government Solutions.
Based on Technology's strong year-to-date performance we have increased our 2013 annual operating income expectation to be in the $135 million range.
Phil Lasse and Dan spoke to our new awards and prospect activities so I'll provide some overall comments around new awards.
Our new awards for the second quarter totaled $2.5 billion for a book-to-burn ratio of 88% compared to $1.8 billion of new awards in the prior period.
New awards in excess of $40 million and project growth in our major projects totaled $1.5 billion.
The balance of new awards of approximately $1 billion reflect the important underpinning work which is spread nicely between our operating groups and project types around the world.
As you heard earlier in the call our updated 2013 new award guidance range is $11 billion to $15 billion.
Our June 30 2013 backlog totaled $24.5 billion up from $10.9 billion at the beginning of the year.
This increase includes the acquired backlog of approximately $15 billion.
The strengthening U.S.
dollar against other currencies during the quarter principally the Australian and Canadian dollars decreased our backlog by about $600 million.
While currency impact is an important metric to understand our backlog movements during the period the income effect of this currency movement is minimal due to the way we manage our currency flows.
EC&amp;M revenues totaled $1.7 billion in 2013 an increase of $901 million over the second quarter of '12.
Approximately 2/3 or $576 million of that increase was attributable to the acquisition.
The balance of the growth was from our oil and gas business unit which increased its revenue 43% up to $1.1 billion the most significant revenue increase related to increased activity on our LNG and gas processing work in the Asia Pacific region.
We expect these projects together with U.S.
nuclear projects to provide sequential quarterly revenue growth through the balance of 2013.
Income from operations totaled $81 million or 4.9% of revenue in the second quarter compared to $36 million or 4.7% in 2012.
Factors contributing to the change in the quarter's operating income include the impact from the acquired power revenue in the organic revenue growth discussed earlier.
The improvement in operating margins came from a more favorable mix of work in the oil and gas business unit and was offset by lower power margins driven by the seasonal nature of our power plant outage services.
Fabrication Services reported second quarter 2013 revenue of $675 million an increase of $224 million over 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing revenue totaled $169 million with operating income of $20 million.
Steel Plate Structure revenue increased $56 million or 12% to $507 million on higher activity for LNG tank projects in the Asia Pacific region and storage tank work in North America partially offset by the completion of various projects in the Middle East.
Operating income totaled $67 million or 9.7% of revenue -- 9.9% of revenues compared to $46 million or 10.3% of revenues in 2012.
Fabrication and manufacturing operating margin was 11.9% of revenues and Steel Plate Structures margin decreased to 9.2% reflected changes in the mix of projects in process.
Lummus Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenue of $161 million compared to $89 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase in revenue reflects greater volume of heat transfer and licensing revenue from a higher beginning-of-the-year backlog.
Second quarter operating income totaled $36 million an increase of $14 million over 2012 reflecting increased volume and stronger refinery-related equity earnings.
Finally Government Solutions reported revenue of $353 million and operating income of $11 million or 3% of revenue.
Although in line with our expectations the quarter and year-to-date operating activities were negatively impacted by the current uncertainties with respect to government funding and spending.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong with shareholder value exceeding $2 billion for the first time in our history.
Cash of $427 million and cash net of revolver borrowings was $158 million.
We continue to enjoy significant support from our credit markets with $2.2 billion of credit available to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $79 million in the E-Gas technology acquisition and capital expenditures.
We serviced our debt for $38 million and paid various Shaw-acquisition-related costs.
Our investment and contract capital reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts and process and accounts payable stands at a negative $776 million at the end of the quarter compared to $325 million at the end of the year reflecting the increase related to the acquisitions.
In closing our significant backlog consistent project execution and strong financial position provides us with the necessary financial flexibility to deliver our projects to our owners and take advantage of the global energy infrastructure and government services opportunities in front of us.
We remain well positioned for opportunities to grow our company and continue to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
Phil? Thanks Ron.
And now we'll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Michael Dudas Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Phil as you look towards the second half of the year in discussing your guidance change would we look at more discrete projects that need to come into the fold or is there expanded scope opportunities or increase in some of the small project-type business maybe a little bit of flavor on how that might play out in the second half of the year? And is there a handful of discrete projects that if they don't make it second half maybe go into like a January February where it would not impact your 2014 visibility as much? We try to be a little bit more descriptive around the new awards for the back half with what we see remaining from not only in the end markets but which operating group and also geography.
What you say is certainly possible.
The percentages I gave you locations and project type excludes potential upside from both Freeport LNG and MOX.
Now of course also the range considers all these things occurring that I described but there's also a combination if Freeport were to be -- we're able to sign that and other major activities.
Certainly -- we run the numbers both ways the probability would indicate that the range would remain the same.
So we feel pretty confident with the adjusted range that we gave you.
But certainly as we've seen in many years there's a number of discrete projects.
As I've mentioned it's a mix of LNG and petrochemical and other types of projects which could provide upside for the year.
But we think the adjusted range is a reasonable forecast.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up for Phil is I was interested in your comments about power and I know you hired a new President for the group.
Maybe -- is that a -- taking internationally is that taking the brand or is there acquisition opportunities? And is there any kind of visibility for the U.S.
new power or plant better [ph] market that could help move that part of the business growing faster over the next couple of years? Well let me just say that first the -- Jeff Lyash is a tremendous talent directly out of the power business.
As you recall from the announcement many years in a variety of assignments including the regulatory environment as well as utility work as a leading executive for Duke Energy before the time of the merger.
So we feel very fortunate in acquiring Jeff for this position.
After the -- during the acquisition I think we announced that Clarence Ray who was the President of the Power group now will be in an interim position before he decided to finally retire.
Of course Clarence is helping us with specific initiatives and the transition.
What Jeff is going to bring to the table I think is something very important for us.
And that's not only his operations and leadership skill but certainly how our owners are looking at capital investment of nuclear and fossil investment around the world.
And that's going to be a valuable insight for us as we go forward.
So we have our eye on certainly international strategies as well as developing power opportunities in the United States and Jeff's going to be key to that strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just pressing you a little bit on the new awards guidance.
If I run rate your 2Q you're still staring at a sub $10 billion award number for the year.
I think what you just said is that you're still factoring Freeport in there in some respect in the $11 billion to $15 billion.
But if Freeport slips into '14 do you have enough conviction in the prospects that you have in the second half of the year that you could at least make the low end of the range? I mean I don't know -- I'd almost care about the middle but at least the low end of the range? Yes we're pretty confident running it both ways.
As I mentioned and I think if you add the numbers I gave you we certainly think the low end of the former range which now becomes I guess the midpoint range of the new range if all that were to happen I think the upper half of that range certainly would be probable.
As we all know not everything always happens but we think even without Freeport and MOX we'll certainly be well into the range of our guidance.
Research Division</strong> But are these -- so you gave us the numbers but like when you say -- when you talk about the LNG I think you said what 30% is that mostly subcontracted roles or prime contract roles? Or maybe a little bit more description on LNG would help us think about it and anymore color you can give us on those numbers? Probably a part of the work that you don't have a lot of visibility in is the major mechanical electrical installation work that we have in Australia on a number of major projects with several of these awards still in front of us with values in excess of $1 billion.
So that certainly is -- makes up a good part of the 30% of LNG.
The other petrochemical side we anticipate there'll be at least -- we hope there'll be at least 2 major ethylene projects still to be awarded this year.
And we certainly have considered that high probability of at least one of those going forward into contract this year.
So there are some major jobs that perhaps you don't have a lot of visibility in.
But there's also some other LNG including floating LNG that's also in this mix as well.
So if all those things the timing of all those projects occur we feel pretty confident that EC&amp;M can deliver the additional $6 billion plus that we've asked them to.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
So I'm not going to bother Dan this quarter but I do want to bother Chip.
So Chip if you could maybe talk about the restructuring that you sort of alluded to a little bit in government is it possible to quantify how much cost you could take out of that business? So as we're looking at maybe 2014 versus '13 we could think about the margin uptick from the sort of new business or new business structure? Andy at this stage there were 2 initiatives I mentioned one of them was restructuring of the business units to align with either the clients we serve or the offering that we have out there.
And then I also mentioned the consolidation.
Both of them can actually lead to enhancements in both the cost structure side and the upside from the new award perspective which is being better positioned.
But at this stage I think it's early to quantify what the improvement will lead to.
I think we're confident in the range that Ron talked about that 3% to 6%.
We're at the bottom.
And as I've commented on my remarks we believe we can do better than that and move up through that range.
Your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One I think Phil during your prepared remarks you talked to coming to some resolution with Southern over the -- over the need -- at some point.
So can you just sort of give any color on how that's progressing and when we should expect incremental resolution? And then I guess my other question to you is just on the GTL side.
That's an area I feel like you should be well positioned for.
The FEED went out on Sassal [ph] so can you talk about your ability to potentially participate there and then sort of how you think about your potential participation on the Shell GTL project? Okay well first of all I'll let Lasse expand on this if he chooses.
I think Southern has certainly been in their earnings call has discussed the progress on the disputed resolutions the disputed items at Vogtle.
We're working -- all the parties are working in good faith and we're very hopeful all parties are hopeful that we'll have a resolution on this before the end of the year.
So more to come on that but certainly we're making good progress and I think everybody would like to get this thing done without having the court decide what the resolution is.
So we're working hard on those discussions and again we hope to have that resolution before year's end.
In terms of the GTL and the Shell job those are going to be interesting development.
I think certainly others might have strong position on the prime contract.
But on GTL programs prime contract is a bit difficult to describe.
I mean typically as they did in Qatar [ph] we've seen the models you've got PMT roles[ph] you certainly have process contractors.
Perhaps there could be Japanese or perhaps non-American firms that will be providing that support to either Shell or Sassal [ph].
But still there's a number of offsite utilities other major verticals which come out of these project which we're very interested in.
Plus if you look at just the opportunity in providing pipe fabrication and storage facilities just that alone and I think we're well-positioned particularly in Louisiana to provide that that's a tremendous opportunity for us.
Even though you might see the people are going a certain way on the prime contracts certainly we're structured that there will be a lot of scope we think that we can participate in.
So I can't quantify that to you but these are huge developments as you know and I think it's going to take a lot of contractors on both these jobs to make it successful.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about opportunities beyond Freeport on the LNG side North America and how you might play a role in some of those opportunities? Sure.
I'll ask Lasse to comment on a few we're tracking.
I think Lasse in the neighborhood of 14 different LNG opportunities.
Yes there's as you know there's a long list of LNG export facilities applications that are going in these days for various major and small oil companies.
So there's opportunities here on the Gulf Coast.
There's opportunities in Canada that we are tracking.
We are also involved in LNG developments on the East Coast of Africa so -- both in Mozambique and in Tanzania.
So we believe that there's good opportunities for continued EPC work in the LNG side.
Yes I think specifically what we can speculate on is that it's certainly [indiscernible] out there.
We're working on it with Freeport right now.
Certainly BG has announced plans to expand that Golden Pass and Sempra Cameron.
All this we have some level of activity with those owners and in those developments.
So as those are approved and move forward we certainly hope to be a participant in each one of those.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the technology new awards I know you mentioned that it would pick up in the second half.
Will it pick up to the kind of $150 million a quarter run rate? I don't know if you can give us any more clarity on how much it will pick back up.
Yes I would -- this is Dan.
I would say that that sort of order of magnitude number is a good number to use.
You may want to clarify too in terms of sales what we book as [ph] awards and also what's coming through as CGL.
Yes as we mentioned last year as we finished last year we mentioned that if you look at everything combined there was roughly about $1 billion worth of new business that we contracted for.
Only $700 million [ph] of which showed up in the consolidated.
And I think that's a reasonable target to keep in mind for the upcoming -- for rest of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Jacobson William Blair.
Research Division</strong> When we think about some of the larger awards that are out there something like Freeport that kind of still a little bit uncertain in terms of the timing how do we think about that in terms of the impact to profitability as we wait for it to hit? Well there's very little -- even if it were to hit tomorrow there's very little built into our forecast and for margin and revenue actually.
So it's more of a ramping up for 2014 and beyond.
So even though we might adjust the new award forecast certainly the revenue and the EPS guidance remains the same.
So no impact really for this year one way or the other.
But we think the job is certainly gaining traction more support on the financial side of it as well as the government approvals.
Whether they can hit the end of the year mark is really the concern but we don't see any issues with the project going forward from our standpoint.
And we're working hard with both the owners and the partners to get this done.
So there might be some early works this year hopefully to move the project along but we're very confident in that project getting approved and moving forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the prepared comments you mentioned that you think the competitive position of the Fabrication business is improving.
Is this because the Shell legacy business has better access to the global markets? Is it a combination of the 2 businesses together? And is there anything to do with the fact that clients may be looking to do more modular fabrication? Well probably you touched on all the above.
We're certainly seeing that the fabrication business that we bought even before the combination is performing very well very well.
I think Luke would probably tell you that we're experiencing a lot of synergies between both our Steel Plate Structures business as well as the Fabrication in terms of learning the process and methodology but -- and Steel Plate Structures is performing very well.
So a combination must do a very -- somewhat predictable and high-margin opportunity that's really providing that -- a lot of value for our company.
Luke do you want to add to the strategy? Yes.
I think on the domestic side for years the domestic plate market was very depressed.
And in the last year or so that has come back very strong and that has raised our margins.
Again most of that business as you know is in the lump sum area.
So we're able to command higher margins there due to the recovery and strong demand like I said in my remarks particularly in the sphere area and in the low temperature storage and terminal side driven by a lot of the petrochemical developments.
The pipe spooling business just remains a good solid business.
We see a trend internationally where companies are taking advantage of the Shaw prefabrication approach as opposed to doing pipe spool fabrication at site.
And so our shops in the Middle East are well positioned and our Thailand shop is also well positioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I know you had the one contract you announced the one pipe contract in Australia.
Are you seeing much more opportunities like that over the next few quarters? We're hoping for a continued growth on that contract and we're seeing some strong orders coming in our Middle East operations for the work there.
And I think as some of the other projects in Australia advanced towards the cut metal stage we're hopeful to capture some of that work as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Jerry Revich Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how much of a headwind was the revision to the Shaw modular solution schedule from a revenue and earnings standpoint? Obviously you're able to offset that elsewhere but I'm wondering if you'd just isolate that for us.
And if you could just provide some more context on the southern company settlement discussion.
Obviously the public documents indicate a pretty significant dollar amount for the disconnect.
I'm just wondering how would you frame for us? What's the Shaw versus the other -- versus the Westinghouse element of that discussion any color at all would be helpful.
Let's first talk about what you characterize as a headwind.
I guess you were referring to the Lake Charles facility and their delivery schedule to the projects.
You wanted -- Luke can you comment on that? Yes I think we've -- like I said in my remarks we've delivered over combined between both projects 100 modules with the concrete pour happening and the head being set those modules are on-site being prefabricated -- being put together into larger modules to be set on the nuclear island.
This fall we're ramping up our production.
We're clearing out some backlog and modules that we have at Lake Charles and we're working closely with power construction on integrated schedules.
So as far as headwind this year with the pour being done in May and the head set thereafter it probably wouldn't impact much of this year.
And if we gain momentum on module shipment we should be able to get on a revenue track going into '14 that's consistent with overall project delivery.
Your question about the dispute.
I won't get into a lot of what the specifics of the discussion or the changes.
But let me just preface that by saying all those changes that we looked and it is a substantial number in the hundreds of millions of dollars as you point out it's all about improving the safety and the reliability of the facility okay.
Now that there is certainly a question in dispute just how much that was all worked [ph].
But certainly it was all directed towards quality and safety and reliability issues on the plant which is good for everyone.
As far as who is responsible for what the contract is very explicit about how that will be resolved.
We feel that from a CB&amp;I standpoint certainly we -- the contract was we saw during diligence was very strong or very explicit about our responsibility.
We have not forecasted nor do we anticipate any material impact on our income statement this year or subsequent years.
So but it really is just getting the changes discussed and resolved and put behind us so we can move forward.
So we're hoping to get that done before the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And you initially booked a nice size propane tank project.
I'm wondering if you could just frame the market opportunity for either propane export or similar projects in the U.S.
How many of such opportunities are out there? Was this a unique situation? Luke? Yes we're tracking a few more of those.
A lot of them are highly proprietary.
But certainly we see a trend towards facilities going in that direction or modifications to existing facilities adding capability to export the natural gas liquids or to handle natural gas liquids.
So we're well positioned there and it's helping us on our sphere market and even in the conventional storage that go along with these facilities other than the large ones so -- also there's a secondary effect on marginalization and pipe spooling that goes with that whole program of natural gas liquids stemming from the petrochemical developments.
And we do have time for one final question.
And that final question will come from the line of Vishal Shah Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just get your thoughts on utilization rates in the fab facilities as we exit the year.
How should we think about it from a margin perspective? And then you also talk about your outlook for module cost synergies.
I know you said that you're running above the $30 million to $50 million run rate can you maybe talk about what sort of timeframe are you looking at to provide an update on that front? The second part of that question? I didn't catch the second.
The first part was fab facilities utilization.
Can you restate the second one? Then I can address the utilization one.
The second one is on the module cost synergies and you said you were running above the run rate that you had provided earlier.
Okay.
All right Luke will take the first one and Ron will answer the second part of your question.
On the fab facilities we're fortunate to have a variety of shops both internationally and domestically that have capacity available.
And we're in the discussions like I mentioned about with a number of key operating companies to get that space committed for work in the U.S.
And I think internationally we're seeing some strong orders coming through.
So I think there's -- to answer your question our utilization is available.
It's -- certainly the investments we've made and the investments Shaw made making Shaw very competitive and the high-quality so we're very excited about the market trends we see vis--vis our pipe fabrication and our modernization capabilities.
Ron? Sure.
On the cost synergy the first phase was really all around the elimination of duplicative public company costs and the consolidation of sort of what I would call the corporate function and we've made great progress on that.
And while you never can declare it being done we've achieved our objective earlier than we thought.
The next round is really similar to what Chip was describing earlier.
Each of the business units have opportunities for additional consolidations and working together.
We're really not in a position yet to talk about quantifying that number but there are a lot of actions that will continue to be developed for the balance of this year and certainly be articulated as we go into 2014 planning and guidance et cetera.
Yes I think just from a -- from what you can anticipate this year.
I think what Ron's saying is that $30 million to $50 million target we're extremely confident that that we'll achieve that.
And certainly it will be an ongoing process.
And as we identify more costs we'll certainly report these.
But for today we think it's probably a good idea to focus on our $30 million to $50 million as you look into the performance of our company for the remainder of the year.
I'd now like to turn the day's conference back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Well I don't have any more summary remarks other than to say that does conclude our call for today.
And we certainly thank you for your time and your questions.
Goodbye.
And thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.