Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
With me today is CB&amp;I’s Chief Financial Officer Ron Ballschmiede who will discuss the company’s overall financial performance.
Before we discuss our results for the year I’d like to highlight our performance in safety which is a key leading indicator of performance and a central part of our direct hire project delivery model.
In 2014 our employees maintained a lost time incident rate of 0.03 for more than 160 million work hours.
This equals just one lost time incident for every 6.2 million hours worked which is well above industry benchmarks for best practices and with a stated goal of zero injuries are possible.
In acknowledgement of our performance we received several recognitions from leading industry associations during the year such as the construction industry’s safety excellence award in 2014 from the Construction Users Roundtable and the 2015 Green Cross for Safety Award by the National Safety Council.
We’re the first company in our industry to receive the National Safety Council award an important recognition considering the hazardive nature of our work and the challenging locations we work in all around the world.
Congratulations to all the men and women in our company who made this tremendous achievement possible.
Improve the great safety performance usually means great operational performance CB&amp;I delivered both for the quarter and the year.
We exceeded expectations for revenue and earnings while maintaining record level backlog thanks to an impressive $16 billion in new awards.
Our revenue for the year approached $13 billion representing a 17% increase from the prior year.
Our income from operations exceeded $1 billion and increased over 30% from 2013 adjusted not only for the remainder of transaction costs from the Shaw acquisition.
It reflects our consistency of execution the benefits of our vertical integration and our cost discipline.
Our SG&amp;A was under 3% for the quarter and just over 3% for the year reflecting over $100 million in savings since the February 2013 close of the Shaw acquisition.
Further we expect to achieve additional cost reductions of approximately $50 million for 2015.
New bookings of $16 billion for the year is a CB&amp;I record and an increase of about 33% over 2013.
Noteworthy awards included the three train Cameron LNG project in the Gulf Coast combined cycle gas-powered plants in the United States long term nuclear maintenance contracts as well as engineering work for refineries in the Middle East feed contract for a variety of key projects including a proposed LNG export project in the US a gas field development in Algeria an oil refinery in Russia and numerous technology contracts that will use our patented petrochemical refining and gas processing technologies and/or engineered products.
On our last point it’s worth highlighting that our technology operating group had another year of outstanding results with over $1 billion in new awards over $600 million in revenue and more than $187 million in operating income for the year.
Since the acquisition of Lummus in 2007 we’ve strengthened our portfolio of technologies by deploying research and development to improve existing technologies sourcing new products via joint ventures entering several strategic partnerships and commercialization agreements and through small complementary acquisitions.
Turning to our operations and backlog our backlog remains at record levels.
We’ve not experienced nor do we expect any cancellations from current contracts.
Less than 5% of our business is exposed to upstream end markets and we see very little correlation between volatile oil prices and material new bookings for the year.
We do however acknowledge the potential risk of delay on some engineering prospects and technology awards that could defer decisions until commodity prices stabilize.
That potential risk for us resides entirely in technology globally upstream projects in our European offices and some tank business in the Middle East but our LNG petrochemical power opportunities plant services environmental solutions and pipe fabrication businesses are essentially unaffected.
However we’ve addressed that incremental risk in our guidance by resetting the lower end of revenue to $14.4 billion keeping the high end at $15.2 billion and have adjusted the range for earnings per share to $5.55 to $6.05 for the year.
We’re confident that backlog will still grow in 2015 supported by additional new awards that should at least equal this year cash flows that should conservatively equate to earnings and margins on income from operations approaching 8%.
During the year we saw groundbreaking for three large projects in the Gulf Coast the ethylene cracker project for Occidental in Ingleside Texas is performing ahead of schedule.
As we reported on prior occasion this project integrates the full suite of project delivery offerings including technology pipe fabrication storage and engineering procurement and construction.
And we think the project is reflective of the benefits of our integration delivery model to all of our clients.
Our LNG export terminal developments in the Gulf Coast Cameron LNG and Freeport LNG continue at initial stages of development with making progress on engineering and procurement activities as well as early construction activities.
We also continued to work with Freeport LNG and our partners to evaluate the expansion of their current plans to incorporate a third liquefaction train to their plan.
Construction in our nuclear power projects of V.C.
Summer in South Carolina and Vogtle in Georgia continue to significantly progress in the field.
In 2014 both projects marked significant accomplishments including the placement of key structural modules such as the CA820 and the CAO5 at V.C.
Summer Unit II and the completion of the 601-foot Vogtle Unit III cooling tower.
We look forward to accomplishing multiple key milestones this year and our focus remains on construction of these nuclear power plants in a safe reliable and cost efficient manner.
We realize that our reluctance to publicly discuss contractual issues with these nuclear projects is frustrating to many a few.
But in response to the flurry of comments made recently by the licensees to their analysts and to the media we find the negative [indiscernible] perpetuate about these important projects disappointing and in some cases misleading.
CB&amp;I’s role is to construct the projects as designed and we are working diligently with the technology provider and the licensees to help mitigate this time and cost that will be incurred as a result of additional changes in scope.
In virtually every case CB&amp;I has contractual entitlement for these costs regardless of the determination between Westinghouse and the licensees on the reasons for the design changes.
And we fully expect that the projects will continue under a re-baseline schedule.
Both projects made tremendous physical progress this past year the important CAO1 modules are on track to be set soon [indiscernible] module fabrication yard will be substantially compete with the rollout of project by April after delivering over 400 modules to this site.
And as referred to recently in the media by Westinghouse the shield buildings are on the critical path of both sides and are driving additional cost and schedule changes.
Now with these contemplated changes CB&amp;I’s construction teams are adequately staffed to both sites with 80% of the materials and equipment purchased and we are extremely confident that both sites will meet the revised completion dates.
Several major projects were successfully completed this year with several acknowledgements to the 9 mile combined cycle plant for Entergy in Louisiana and two major projects for ExxonMobil the gas conditioning plant in the highlands of Papua New Guinea and the crew expansion program in Alberta Canada.
And despite the completion of these major projects our headcount stands at almost 54 000 people and we’re still actively recruiting professional and project staff primarily in the Gulf Coast for LNG and petrochemical projects and for new power work throughout the US.
And as been widely reprinted the number of oil producers and oil service companies have announced personnel reductions in the region.
These reductions represent potential new sources of technical and craft labor for our projects and we have recruiting activities named and attracting those with the right skill sets.
We also continue to partner with community colleges and technical training centers in the area in order to develop the craft disciplines most in demand for our projects.
We rely on our current accessible labor pool which topped at 145 000 direct craft project management and shop and maintenance personnel to source the incremental demand stability infrastructure we expect to be involved with in the US.
Additionally I am proud to tell you that our veteran recruiting program since its initiation has attracted 2000 new hires of those who have served our country.
A word on capital allocation priorities that we addressed at our investor conference in November.
First we are very pleased this strong cash flows from operations has allowed us additional flexibility to meet our objective of returning value to our shareholders through a more aggressive share repurchase plan for the next year and into 2016.
At a minimum we expect to be able to reduce our outstanding shares by at least 10% to eliminate the shares we issued at the time of the Shaw acquisition plus additional reductions in share count should we divest assets whose proceeds would also be deployed to share repurchases.
We still remain in a reasonable cushion is cash balances for operations continue to service our debt as planned keep enough dry powder for technology or other tuck-in acquisitions that can demonstrate double-digit returns and essentially drive a continued strong balance sheet that will give us the flexibility to grow the company strategically when the opportunity presents itself.
Now I’d turn the call over to Ron to review the financial details of our fourth-quarter and full-year results.
Ron? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
Let me take you through our strong financial performance for the quarter and the year.
In order to focus on the ongoing company's operating performance during the quarter I will discuss our results excluding the integration-related costs as set forth in more detail in the earnings release.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $3.4 billion an increase of $371 million or 12% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase for the quarter was primarily due to net increases on our large cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia progress on our large nuclear projects and expansion of our plant maintenance work all of which are within our engineering construction and maintenance operating group or EC&amp;M.
Our full year revenue totaled $13 billion an increase of $1.9 billion or 17% over 2013 again primarily driven by the EC&amp;M operating group.
As you saw in our earnings release we marginally updated our 2015 revenue guidance to $14.4 billion to $15.2 billion an indicative increase of 14% over our 2014 revenue based on the midpoint of our guidance.
This revenue growth reflects the continued activity and ramp up of several large US projects in our backlog and the increase in our year over year opening backlog.
Our 2015 revenue burn is expected to be in the 35% to 40% range which is similar to 2014.
This backlog burn rate reflects the overall long duration of projects in our backlog specifically our major LNG and nuclear projects.
Our gross profit for the quarter totaled $391 million versus $339 million in the comparable 2013 quarter and our gross margin improved to 11.6% from 11.3% for the respective periods.
These increases were primarily attributable to the impact of our higher-revenue volume higher-margin backlog integration savings and improved operating leverage.
Gross profit for the full year increased to $1.5 billion or 11.3% of revenues compared to $1.2 billion or 10.8% in 2013.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased to $95.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 from $98.9 million in the 2013 comparable quarter.
Our S&amp;A expense was 2.8% of revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 down 50 basis points from 3.3% in the fourth quarter of 2013 and down 30 basis points for the full year from 3.4% in 2013 to 3.1% in 2014.
This improvement was primarily due to the integration savings partially offset by inflationary increases.
We expect our 2015 SG&amp;A to revenue percentage to further improve to be at or slightly less than 3% of consolidated revenue.
As an important reminder when thinking about our stock-based compensation expense for 2015 GAAP requires certain stock-based compensation for retiree eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
CB&amp;I’s long-term incentive compensation awards are made in the first quarter.
Consequently the aforementioned accounting will result in approximately 45% of our anticipated 2015 full-year stock-based compensation expense being recorded in the first quarter predominantly within SG&amp;A.
In terms of EPS the first quarter of 2015 stock-based compensation expense is expected to exceed the related expense for each of the second third and fourth quarters of 2015 by approximately $0.10 per share.
Integration-related costs in 2014 were $17.5 million or $0.10 a share for the fourth quarter and related primarily to facility consolidations personnel relocations and reductions in system integration costs.
We do not expect to separately report continuing integration-related costs in 2015.
Fourth quarter adjusted income from operations was $291 million or 8.6% of revenue compared to $230 million or 7.7% of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year 2014 adjusted income from operations totaled $1 billion or 7.9% of revenue up over 30% from 2013 which was $780 million or 7% of revenue.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2014 adjusted income tax rates were 29% and 30.2% respectively.
The fourth quarter and full year 2013 included a tax benefit of $77 800 000 or $0.72 per share related to the recognition of our remaining UK NOL tax assets and additional US foreign tax credits.
Excluding these benefits our fourth quarter and full year 2013 adjusted income tax rates were 27.9% and 28.4% respectively.
We expect full-year 2015 income tax expense to be in the 32% to 34% range.
The effective rate increase reflects our greater portion of our income being generated in higher tax jurisdictions specifically the United States.
The summation of all that resulted in fourth quarter adjusted net income of $161 million or adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.47.
The inclusion of integration-related costs for the fourth quarter GAAP earnings of $1.37 diluted earnings per share reflect the aforementioned $0.10 per share impact.
Adjusted EBITDA totaled $337 million or 10% of revenues for the fourth quarter compared to $279 million or 9.3% of revenues in the comparable 2013 period.
Our 2014 backlog at the end of the year totaled $30.4 billion up from $27.8 billion at the beginning of the year.
Our non-US dollar denominated backlog decreased by approximately $ 7 million in 2014 due to the strengthening of the US dollar primarily against the Australian Columbia and European currencies.
While these currency fluctuations can cause variations in our reported backlog these fluctuations have not resulted in a significant variation in our operating results.
Now let me take you through the operating group fourth quarter and full year results.
Each of our group's fourth quarter 2014 results were consistent with or exceeded our expected annual range of operating results which we have discussed previously.
Our new awards for the fourth quarter and full year totaled $3.3 billion and $16.3 billion respectively representing a book to burn ratio of 98% and 125% respectively.
EC&amp;M fourth quarter revenues totaled $2.4 billion an increase of $411 million or 21% over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 results primarily benefited from net increased revenue on US nuclear and our large cost reimbursable projects and higher plant maintenance revenue.
EC&amp;M fourth quarter revenue from its two nuclear projects in the United States totaled approximately $500 million.
Income from operations for EC&amp;M totaled $163 million or 6.9% of revenues in the fourth quarter compared to $111 million or 5.7% in 2013.
Our fourth quarter 2014 results benefited from higher revenue volume a shift to a higher-margin mix on our large cost reimbursable projects and our remaining backlog integration savings and leverage of our operating costs.
Fabrication Services reported fourth quarter 2014 revenue of $619 million a decrease of $80 million from 2013.
The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to lower storage tank work in the Asia Pacific regions and Middle East partially offset by higher revenues in the United States.
Operating income totaled $66 million or 10.7% of revenues in the fourth quarter compared to $76 million or 10.8% of revenues in the comparable 2013 period.
Our fourth quarter results were primarily impacted by lower revenue volume and cost increases of $8 million on a pipe fabrication project offset by savings on a project in Asia Pacific region.
This pipe fabrication project was very unusual in that it was booked as an award back in 2010 and was on hold by the customer until 2014.
Technology had a strong quarter reporting revenues of $158 million compared to $130 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 benefiting from higher engineered products activity.
The fourth quarter 2014 operating income totaled $52 million compared to $40 million in 2013 reflecting increased revenue and higher mix of margins.
Finally environmental solutions reported revenue of $223 million an increase of $13 million over the fourth quarter of 2013.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $10 million or 4.3% of revenues compared to $3 million in the corresponding quarter of 2013.
The improvement in both absolute dollars and operating margins reflect a higher margin mix of work and cost reduction initiatives implemented over the past year.
Environmental Solutions results continued to be impacted by sequestration with respect to the US federal government funding and prioritization.
Now a few comments on our balance sheet liquidity and cash flow.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remains strong.
At the end of December 2014 our total shareholder’s equity was $2.9 billion our cash balance was $351 million and our total debt declined by slightly over $400 million during the quarter.
Further in the quarter we invested $38 million in capital expenditure $88 million of common stock dividends and repurchased $19 million of our common stock.
For the full year we invested $118 million in capital expenditures paid $30 million in common stock dividends and repurchased $86 million of our common stock.
We continue to enjoy significant support from the credit markets with $3.6 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
As we had anticipated and discussed previously cash generated from our fourth quarter 2014 operating activities was strong and totaled $613 million.
This cash from operating activities was primarily the result of a net improvement in our contract capital of approximately $384 million with the balance of approximately $229 million from earnings and other operating activities.
Contract capital reflects the combined balances of our receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable.
The improvement in our contract capital balance of $384 million in the fourth quarter was primarily related to improved collections on our large reimbursable projects of approximately $250 million and our share of payments in advance of performing work on our two large US export facility projects of approximately $265 million offset by our US nuclear projects which experienced a decline of approximately $245 million reflecting the net utilization of the advanced billing position on these projects.
Our fourth quarter cash flow from operating activities excluding the US nuclear projects totaled in excess of $800 million representing a solid cash flow quarter for the remainder of the business.
We expect this positive cash flow trend to continue; accordingly we expect our cash flows from operating activities to approximate our earnings in 2015.
With that I'll turn it back to Phil.
Thank you Ron.
Now I’ll open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
I just wanted to go back to the nuclear projects and at the end of the third quarter I think it was about $1 billion of unapproved change orders and claims it sounds like that’s going to be going up based on some revisions to the schedule.
Can you talk about how you think this gets settled out the timing and is it the potential last years while the targets are getting constructed? Obviously you know this is the very first large capital projects that’s had dispute in terms of claims and unapproved change orders probably the first one in our experience that’s been so public.
But nevertheless we have been working with all the parties to resolve changes and scope the entitlements of change orders throughout the course of the year and have actually had some very good response in getting some traction in the settlements.
It’s not a matter of just submitting a claim order but as you know in most contracts there’s a very explicit dispute resolution which you have to work through and it does take time.
So we’re picking up the traction on that.
I think the contract is very clear in terms of who’s entitled to what.
The complicating factors really the technology provider having to demonstrate to the licenses the nature of the design changes.
Once we receive a construction document that says we need erect or construct something in the field we are obligated to do that.
And so if – there is a disputed claim that may delay things.
But we’re making progress these are first of its kind technology I mean you’ve read and heard everything about this projects but they are great projects.
I mean we’re going to get there there is a good operational utility people and they know what they are doing and we know what we’re doing and so have every confidence that we’re going to get there.
And then your comments about the backlog expecting that to increase here in 2015 could you talk a little bit more about types of projects or geographic areas where you’re expecting that increase to come from? First of all the backlog number I don’t know if Ron mentioned this in his call but backlog had somewhat of an FX adjustment this year $600 million.
So setting that aside just in terms of absolute terms we think that we’re going to have new awards we’re forecasting in the same range as we experienced this year considering that our current backlog is probably going to burn a bit slower rate on some of the major jobs because we are just starting the engineering phase that should create some growth in the overall backlog.
Locations is predominantly North America across all business lines in our company.
We see a significant increase in the amount of power plants combined cycle power plant opportunities; we continue to our capital services and plant services offerings; technology we have a bit of a challenge in some of its key areas such as Russia and China but certainly with the joint venture with Chevron and some other initiatives we have we think that will continue to be a major contributor.
So we’re quite optimistic.
As I said on the call we do see some potential sluggishness in some of the areas not so much geographic it is just the type of projects but again our exposure to upstream type projects particularly in oil rather is very minimal.
So we’re sticking with our forecast for the most part but we acknowledge there could be some timing and some delay issues in 2015 that we need to acknowledge.
And your next question will come from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
So Ron how should we think about milestone payments on nuclear projects in 2015? Is there a [indiscernible] because of the delays in a project than maybe your conviction level and free cash equaling net income in 2015? And then could you update us on what that advanced payment is level is is it two hundred and something million for the nuclear projects at this point? Let’s take them in pieces.
I think the milestones that we will hit will be on some payments we’re also being paid portions of the amount we spend when we start spending the change orders and increased number whether it’s approved or unapproved.
So that certainly mitigates some of the drawdown that we had in 2014 and why 2015 is significantly better.
Still we’re working on rebate sliding schedules but right now without those we will have a cash use in the nuclear side.
But nowhere it’s near as significant as 2014 and the base business will continue to generate strong cash flows in 2015.
Don’t look for $600 million every quarter but it would be pretty substantial.
That’s just the nature of the business as we have this increase in North America work which is predominantly fixed-price or some kind of hybrid to fixed-price the front end of these payments tend to be very positive.
And the turn around on these projects that go several years is typically two couple of years 2017 2018 at which time you refill the funnel and keep it going.
So by all means we expect to be able to offset any negative cash flow we have on nuclear projects with other parts of our business.
Let me just ask sort of a big picture question like I don’t think I’ve ever seen a situation where two projects take VMC’s market cap down but we’ve seen and I sensed your guys frustration but how do we – like everybody else does that sort of maximum liability what could CBI be found guilty of if anything and okay sort of management to give us more color around these projects.
Is there anything that you could tell us additionally backing away some of the fears that investors have around obviously big numbers that are associated with these delays is there anything more that you could say guys around that? Let me just reconfirm a couple of things this that I think Tom Fanning had mentioned in the last couple of weeks regarding that.
He framed the potential liability if you will of the contract I want to also mention the contractor is a technical contractual term it doesn’t always mean that construction contractor so if someone says the contractor has his liability that means that entire consortium so that was a bit of an unfortunate nuance used in the 8-K that was filed that I think we are – that was the entitlement factor.
But getting back to your question yeah there’s a couple of issues there.
One as Tom had framed the liability I think you said it’s somewhere around $247 million which you can assume would be split in half by the two consortium partners as damages as the limits of that damages and I’m not saying that that’s a legitimate dispute that we talked about but should that – even if we were to fail in that count that amount our amount you got to remember that’s a lump sum contract you could assume that we’ve got certain contingencies on accounting that has already addressed that and that would not be an impact on income.
Anything beyond that amount is provisions of the contract where we’re entitled to cost.
So we feel very well protected from that respect.
The second thing I think Tom mentioned in one of his comments that I think is important that probably hasn’t been talked about is that the financial guarantor of this contract is Toshiba.
That’s even high.
So I think the licensees will certainly be looking to technology providers for that relief should it become necessary.
So again we’ve talked about this we’ve talked about the time of the acquisition we always felt very comfortable that the contract protect us we have a lot of entitlement.
It’s probably going to take some time to work all those through but you said in your experience you’ve never seen that I guess remember the first claim of nuclear construction unfortunately I have but again I’ll go back to the parameters that these are great projects.
Once we get through this first phase the first of kind design when you look at the economics where you have design completed when you have construction methodologies defined the economics if someone should decide to proceed on new nuclear jobs should be kind of interesting.
I mean so we’re hopeful.
But we’re going to get through this and we’ve not – we’ve not if you look at our scope of work we’re tracking right as we should be with all the process in line we’ve certainly not assumed any big charges from this job we’re certainly going to work through these issues with all the parties.
So I don’t know how to address that I absolutely think there’s been some significant headwind on cash flows but the projects are progressing well on normal metrics that you got to apply to construction job of this type.
And your next question will come from the line of Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
I said you’ve said earlier on the new projects side just Phil I guess just back to the...
We got about $29 billion other of the backlog if you want to talk about it Jamie.
Yeah I know.
Above 90% of our revenue.
90% of our revenue but that’s okay.
We’ll talk about whatever you like to.
Okay we’ll whatever – I guess just two questions.
Phil I am surprised by your optimism on the backlog and on the orders so can you talk about your confidence level did you haircut your prospect list at all are there new projects that came in there did you assume a higher win rate I’m just trying to understand why you’d be so optimistic I understand over the longer term but to say that for 2015 that seems I don’t know it seems optimistic to me.
And then I guess my second question is as you sit here today you guys have done a good job obviously integrating structuring with the Shaw acquisition given that we could be entering into a potential downturn you’ve seen in some other companies take restructuring actions in preparation for this or as a result of this do you see any opportunities outside of stuff you haven’t talked about or you’re contemplating anything? Yeah I guess I’m sounding optimistic because we’ve done a fairly thorough analysis when we saw the volatility in the prices and the drop in prices and we felt that our impact our stock impact was unreasonable considering the minimal exposure we have to upstream projects for oil companies.
We looked at our LNG projects which is a large part of our backlog certainly our power plants power projects would be unaffected petrochemical there is no reason to think that our existing prospects but very little of our prospective work which is what we’re talking about prospective work associated with oil-related projects is really very minimal.
Would you expect it to be more like back end loaded like fourth quarter loaded versus before you were expecting first half I mean has there been any tweak to how you’re thinking about this? Yeah I think we’re going to see the first half of the year lot softer than the back half of the year.
I think we’ve got some large projects out there particularly in LNG and some other projects around the world that’s probably more back end second half loaded.
But that’s not unusual for us as it is in our industry.
But I think the one little part that would affect my optimism is that if we had current backlog for whatever reason put on hold or canceled and that we have not just seen that.
When you look at our LNG jobs the ones that we’re involved in are financial driven by companies and ventures that have nothing to do with integrated oil companies.
They don’t rely on their proceeds from oil to fund these.
There’s been some discussion about Gulf Coast project being delayed somewhat for that reason but it’s not because of the economics on gas.
So we see some of that.
As I said we see some softness in some of the technology awards some of that is not even oil price related some of that is just geopolitical with the situation in Russia and other places.
So we see some softness there.
So that’s why we took a fairly minimal approach to adjust our guidance because we just have not really been able to produce the data which would suggest that we’re going to have a major impact for next year.
I guess just opportunities to restructure.
I actually have one follow-up on the nuc side but go ahead on restructuring.
We are taking some opportunities to restructure which will probably do anyway.
There is some assets that we see in the combine business that would probably serve us better by being combined on a sub unit basis.
We are looking at some discrete assets which we need choose to divest if market allow itself.
So we are not looking at potentially do anything differently on our workforce in fact we are adding to our workforce and we’re capitalizing the fact that we’re seeing a lot of people available in workforce right now.
We are taking space new space engineering space in the west side of Houston and we like I said if these conditions extend through 2016 it’s hard to say what will be the impact after that.
I don’t know of anyone I don’t know if you have any better information but I would suggest that would be a longer-lasting impact than six or eight months.
And I would add when you look at the revenues for 2015 and our guidance we’re growing the business 14% and the vast vast majority of that growth comes out of our $30 billion of backlog with projects that going and will continue to go.
So with 14% growth in revenues unless we see something dramatic in cancellation of postponing those projects we’re manned enough.
I'm not worried about your guidance for 2015; I'm worried about 2016 earnings if the new awards don't happen.
I think 2015 is fine.
But I guess my other question just on the nuc side everyone's trying to ask this.
I know you can't talk to specific numbers of the consortium.
But is the consortium – are they okay it's in everyone's best interest to have some resolution in 2015? Because the other side of it if I was them why not just drag this thing out and go through arbitration or go to court and have this thing last four or five years right? But is there any – do people want to resolve this at all any time in the near future besides you? I think they do.
There are quite different contracts on both projects and I certainly believe that people want to resolve that and then no reason to that as I said we’re working through a lot of these issues as we speak and have had pretty good results and so I feel pretty confident.
As far as there was a comment that I believe that was made by one of the – maybe Tom’s comment about he thought that perhaps the consortium relationship was affecting the job.
And I think probably what he meant was the commercial discussion because on an everyday basis there’s thousands of people throughout the consortium and licensees that are working together to get this job built.
So there’s a lot of sub-text to that.
But again we feel pretty confident.
And so I think if you’re talking about 2016 we will see but I think if you look at the existing backlog as Ron mentioned I mean we’ve got some significant backlog still in Australia that’s moving forward on a couple of major projects.
East Africa still got be resolved this year and we’re moving forward of the preliminary works.
For Mozambique in competition for that project that is additional trains that we’re looking at the existing LNG which there’s been no discussion on delaying that.
But there may be some as we saw in 2009 you remember when there was a tremendous pause when the oil prices were I think around $30 as I recall.
And a lot of major projects were delayed because owners wanted to see if there was any way to capitalize on the supply market.
And after that was done and re-estimates were done then we saw a rush of new awards towards the end of 2009.
So we may see some pause like that but right now we haven’t seen it.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Maybe to follow up on Jamie's your response to Jamie about the potential pause and competition in some of the end markets that you are seeing.
Do you get a sense that there is more aggressiveness from – recognize it's always a competitive industry but because of the issues in the last six months any heightened sense of that generally or maybe in some of the end markets in particular that you are working in? Actually when you look at the Middle East for example that situation has improved we’re seeing more and more European and American contractors more competitive against what had been a fairly Korean dominated market.
So we’ve seen that improve.
There is going to be probably some Middle Eastern projects which won’t go forward immediately but there are exceptions to that particularly in Kuwait where they have a large projects in refineries going forward we’ve got some tank work opportunities there as well as some engineering procurement work of our European offices.
There is some additional very significant work in Kazakhstan which is going forward.
Where we see the potential risk Michael is perhaps some of the offshore work that we do out of Europe and again that’s not a huge – won’t move the needle much on the overall business plan but there is some softness there.
But in the US and when we saw the last reduction in oil prices the projects that were immediately impacted were oil sand but we’re kind of through this last wave of oil sands development in Canada and we really didn’t have any significant projects there going forward for this next year.
Again 2016 is a different story if this thing continues but the best information that we can give from the owners is that they don’t anticipate some of that to take that long because it’s driven by demand and demand is going away.
And I think Michael to the other thing is we’re quite diversified than our competition in many different ways.
So we have ways to hedge anymore impact from oil prices that perhaps others might not and that was by intent.
So power markets looks good we got a lot of interesting projects going forward.
So like I said we’re being cautious but certainly we are confident in what we are projecting right now.
Sometimes people forget about the diversity of your business model.
That makes you a bit different and unique.
Follow-up my second question would be the tender and pace of capital allocation decisions in 2015.
Ron looking at the cash flow schedules and what you talked about in your prepared remarks is certain parts of the year better for share repurchase? Is there a potential we see an asset monetization of some size in the first quarter or second quarter of 2015? That wasn’t assumed in that projection.
Our cash flow that we generated like Ron right said the old fashioned way through earnings.
Anything we do through divestitures will be upside and also our EPS projections for the year were not dependent on share repurchases it was done in absence of that.
It’s going to be as we judge them and opportunistically is going to be dependent on the share price and – but I think it’s important to let our shareholders know that is the priority for capital for the next couple of years.
We think it’s a benefit to get out the dilution of the shares we issued with the Shaw acquisition and that’s what we intend to do.
And our pace would be driven by cash flows and as Ron said we expect that to improve significantly.
That’s generally the plan going forward for the next couple of years.
But given current stock price and what the first quarter half of cash flow any sense of that Ron? I think we took longer term that that Michael.
I think the first quarter just generally as you call if you look backwards is one of our weaker quarters just because all the year-end type of costs funding benefit plans or composition plans or all the other things that have in the first quarter tend to reduce that.
But I think we look at a little bit longer term than that we will kind of evaluate 2015 as it goes but also keep an eye out for 2015 2016 timeframe as opposed to doing too much too fact.
I think we talked about in November but just remind you that we did have some debt covenants that restricted the amount of share repurchase we could do at any particular time.
We’ve reduced the debt to almost a ratio we need to allow us to – flexibility to repurchase shares as the opportunity presents itself.
So we think that will all be resolved itself towards the end of the first half of this year or the second quarter and we should be moving forward on our plan.
And your next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Phil it sounds like you are expecting some big LNG projects driving the awards this year.
What do you think has to happen for those to move forward? What are the other likely sources of large projects outside of LNG that hold some promise here? I can be a little more discreet of LNG because the public common thing around these is pretty widely known for all the LNG jobs.
The main LNG jobs that we project for this year that could have some impact aren’t really Mozambique as I mentioned.
We’re in competition in that so obviously we have that factored somewhat in terms of our dependency of hitting our new award forecast.
But we’re very confident the owners for Freeport for example move ahead of train 3 and that would be a significant award.
We’re pretty confident that [indiscernible] would move forward on that development this year.
So in terms of just new awards that’s very good for us.
I mentioned there is some interesting projects in the Middle East of some hundreds of millions of dollars that are very interesting so we see some big wins.
Remember we also have a big chunk of our work that we’ve always called underpinning work this year I think it was probably over $4 billion.
And we don’t see that underpinning work is necessarily that effective except for engineering potentially engineering offshore engineering work out of some of the European offices.
So that’s always been a healthy opportunity for us and pretty quick book and burn characteristics and significant margins.
Fabrication again is getting a lot of work and pretty good challenge there is to make sure that we can retain what we see as margins and continue to improve our efficiency in our pipe fabrication steel replacements on the tank works lot of good opportunity as I said in Kuwait and other parts of the Middle East and other parts of the world.
There seems to be an intuitive feeling out there that all those cheap oil they’re going to need a lot of storage to put it somewhere which could create opportunity.
I got to say we haven’t seen that yet but hopefully that will happen perhaps 2016 and beyond.
Although the terminal business in the United States and pressurized storage is as good as we’ve it perhaps in 125 years.
So that sort of the business.
So even on our environmental solutions our awards exceeded revenue by a significant amount.
I think the book to burn was about 1.4 or so we exceeded what we expect on income from operations by a significant amount.
So we’ve been making a lot of progress on all fronts.
So we think that will continue through 2015.
That's helpful.
I think you gave an 8% margin guidance target.
What are the most important things that have to happen to hit that? To what extent do you have closeouts baked in there versus...
No we don’t really look at that.
Those would be events not planned.
We don’t look at savings with these cash flows and margins are in a pretty standard curves.
8% is really just expected improvement across the line when you look at our lowest margin business one of our lowest business is our engineering and construction business with the largest backlog.
So in absolute terms we will drive a lot of earnings that way but that bandwidth tends to be fairly predictable as compared to the rest of the industry.
And I think we’ve said that as 4% to 6% this year we did 7% closer to 8% that’s right and we don’t expect that to change of course our technologies tremendous margins on that business fabrication services which is about 35% of our backlog still even challenged as we were this year we still reserving about 9% operating margin.
So when you look across border in terms of how we’re structured and our opportunities we expect that the consolidated margin should approach 8% for the year on an operating margin basis.
And I think my comments on EC&amp;M side will continue to progress into 2015 just a mix of that work will continue to move towards higher margin rate as you saw each almost sequentially this year we had some headway to go there yet as we continue to shift into higher margin reimbursable work which is already happening and higher percentage of US work the North American work I should say coming out of that.
And your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Phil first of all in your prepared remarks and I may have misheard this.
When you were talking about share repurchases you mentioned buying 10% of the stock.
Did you put a timeframe on that? Well yeah we look at our – just our cash flows to bode any kind of events like divestitures or anything like that anticipate the share price and we like to think that we could eliminate that dilution from the strong shares within – by the end of 2016.
And that would be our goal.
We can accelerate that obviously if we can – if there are proceeds that we can earn or other events or the cash flows are much better than we anticipate.
But on a conservative basis that’s what we like to do.
We think that would be obviously a tremendous benefit for our shareholders.
In terms of the divestitures obviously you haven't figured out or reached any deals if you had any preliminary discussions or thoughts on that I know you can't say what they are.
Are we talking about hundreds of millions of dollars? Well I hope so.
We talked about at the time of the acquisition parts of the business that may or may not be core and certainly we have tested the market and had some people kicking the tires there but quite honestly we think that we can improve some of the businesses and make them more core and better profitably increase their value perhaps at some time as any part of our business.
It could be of more value if we invest than keeping.
Right now a part of the business is not really on the table.
But there are some discrete assets depending on our direction and our strategy that might be worth looking at and we’ve had some interest in again if we do that we’re talking in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Lastly just on the power plant projects you mentioned you've got some.
But you didn't mention or I didn't see them referenced as much for 2015 prospects.
Are there substantial power plant opportunities and you are pretty comfortable with your execution there and thinking back years ago...
So far so good we got a couple this year.
We look at the scattered chart on potential combined cycle gas plants and the number is up around 70.
Now of course all those won’t go and of course there is a development cycle issue if you’re talking about regulated utility versus a merchant plan which tends to be much longer in the cycle [indiscernible] for example.
But they are out there.
And the competitors in that market it’s pretty good list it’s not dozens it’s handful of people that have the capability and resume to do these projects.
So we feel we are very well positioned.
And we have time for one final question today.
Your final question will come from the line of Vishal Shaw with Deutsche Bank.
This is [indiscernible] on for Vishal.
So I had a couple questions on the fabrication services side.
Orders are trending down sequentially over the last several quarters.
But in light of oil and gas spending concerns do you think this trend is reversible in 2015? And then also how much of your $2.5 billion or so in backlog will be burned over the course of the next 12 months? As far as fabrication services or the overall backlog for the company.
Fabrication services? Part of what we’re doing with fabrication services is a matter of selectivity and efficiencies and so we are trying to get better work – high work and a better mix of projects in our shop.
So that’s kind of reflective.
But we’re very encouraged by the position of fabrication services at least our high fabrication has in its market and of course our CB&amp;I tank business is certainly extremely well positioned in their geographic markets.
Each one of our reporting segments have different book and burn characteristics.
For example our burn rate primarily in E&amp;C is probably around 35% to 45% which was for the company kind of that.
We have much high book and burn characteristics for our fabrication services and remember that’s different kinds of work but it could be over 60%.
And if you look back in historic CB&amp;I legacy projects before we start acquiring other companies traditionally we were around 60% 65%.
So we think that’s pretty good norm for now as well.
And then just moving to the technology side if you look over the past couple of quarters margins are running about 33% which is pretty well above the 25% to 30% guide that you guys gave.
Is this a new normal or should they normalize over the year as 2015 progresses? Also how should we think about the linearity? One of the things we’re doing is there are some components of the technology group which we are shifting into another part of the company to keep technology as more of a pure play.
So you’re actually going to probably see the margin percentage even increase.
But we’ll explain that as those moves are made.
But yeah I would like to think it certainly should be the normal for those projects.
Our group has done a tremendous job looking at very creative ways to monetize technology beyond just selling licenses and catalysts with the joint ventures they have and application and licensing of this patented technologies in some interesting places of the world.
So I think we expect that to continue again they’re one of the premier technology companies in the world so interest is high.
And so I would say our expectations for that group are very high.
Thank you.
That would conclude today’s Q&amp;A session.
I’ll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In summary our 2014 results reflect strong new awards in key end markets and recognition by our clients the benefits of our integrated supply chain solution while our revenue and earnings performance highlight our consistent execution and the flexibility of our diverse offerings.
For the current year in spite of short-term uncertainty associated with the price of oil we expect little impact to our revenue and earnings performance and have confidence in the long term fundamental strength of our positioning within our end markets.
So with that I’d like to thank all of you for your interest and participation today.
And this concludes our call.
Thank you for dialing in for today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.