Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been muted to prevent background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filings.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you.
Mr.
Asherman you may begin.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the first quarter of 2015.
I'm pleased to have with me today CB&amp;I’s new Chief Financial Officer Mike Taff.
Now many of you probably know Mike from his 30 plus years of financial and industry experience but for those of you how do not know Mike he joined CB&amp;I on April 01 from Flowserve Corporation where he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for McDermott International and also for the The Babcock and Wilcox Company following its spin-off from McDermott.
So please join me in welcoming Mike who will discuss the company’s overall financial performance in a few minutes.
Now before we discuss our results for the quarter I’d like to highlight our safety performance.
An example of our industry leading performance is our safety record at the multibillion dollar refinery expansion we are completing for Ecopetrol and Cartagena Colombia.
The project recently surpassed over 100 million man hours worked at the site without a lost time accident.
Now this is a tremendous achievement for CB&amp;I and for our industry.
And I want to wish congratulations to all of the men and women in Colombia who made this achievement possible.
I'm also proud to add that for the past two consecutive quarters were 29 million man hours our entire oil and gas business has not had a lost time incident.
So thanks to our track record in safety we were recently recognized with a Green Cross for Safety Award from the National Safety Council.
The awards ceremony was well attended from members of the Council such as Exxon Mobil and Exelon and previous recipients of the award including Dow Chemical DuPont and Owens Corning among others.
Also during the quarter we had a couple of strategic changes to our structure that will enhance operational excellence balance our portfolio and strengthen our overall organization.
Environmental Solutions which is now called Capital Services Group will include our Plant Services business unit with the Environmental &amp; Infrastructure Organization combined as one sub unit.
Both managed field and task oriented works cope and projects that have similar customer relationships and by merging the two we'll be able to better capitalize on their combined abilities to deliver a more complete range of services to our customers.
Separately the Federal Services business will remain part of the Capital Services Group.
The other change to our sub units is that Fabrication Services now also includes our business and focuses on manufactured heat exchangers and skid mounted equipment serving the U.S.
midstream markets.
Engineered Products had previously been aligned under the Technology Group.
Now let's turn to the quarter's results.
During the quarter we generated $3.1 billion in revenue a 7% increase year-over-year despite negative headwinds associated with foreign exchange fluctuations of approximately $150 million.
Our earnings of $1.21 per diluted share represented 40% year-over-year growth over adjusted earnings from the comparable period.
Operating margins for the company are nearly 8%.
New awards totaled $3.0 billion for the quarter representing a good mix of size location and end markets.
During the quarter we announced the award of our third LNG train for the Freeport LNG export terminal.
The Freeport award also reaffirms the confidence we have expressed in our capacity to generate growth in key end markets by focusing on the right projects clients and in markets where we have a competitive advantage.
Our Fabrication Services Group approached $1 billion in new awards for the quarter representing robust sequential and year-over-year growth.
Most positively the awards were largely comprised of underpinning work from the diverse set of locations clients and offerings including work for developments in LNG oil sands refining terminals petrochemical NGLs and power markets.
The versatility of our Fabrication Services Group continues to underscore the benefits of our diversified offerings versus pure EPC delivery models.
Additionally we announced this afternoon an award in excess of $640 million to provide ethylene technology basic engineering and cracker heater supply as well as cost reimbursable construction services for the Shintech Ethane Cracker Project in Louisiana.
This project reflects our customers' confidence in our resources and ability to self-perform projects along the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
We signed this contract in the fourth quarter of 2014 with the announcement pending the customer's authorization of their permitting and technical documentation.
Regarding other oil and gas opportunities in our Engineering &amp; Construction Group we continue to see potential in U.S.
LNG.
Currently there are approximately 50 million tons per year of capacity under construction projections highlight a reasonable ceiling could be around 100 to 120 million tons per year meaning that there is probably additional room for another 10 to 15 more LNG trains in the following years.
So we continue to participate in pre-feed and feed activity for LNG developments large and small with a variety of clients.
The natural gas market in the United States remains the key driver of U.S.
petrochemical expansions.
There is enough natural gas in the U.S.
to keep prices of natural gas and natural gas liquids very low relative to crude prices.
And even though some of our client's anticipated margins have narrowed we believe that with the recovery of the price of oil long-term margins will be supported with the U.S.
investments.
More specifically in the ethylene market we expect to see improvement in the margin in the United States.
The U.S.
and Canada remain major producers of ethane keeping feedstock prices low while rising oil prices will continue to put upward pressure on the cost of naphtha.
We are also seeing refining capacity growth in the Asia-Pacific region driven by heavy investments in China India and the Middle East with upgraded demand in Russia.
Finally on oil and gas the recent wave of M&amp;A activity in the energy sector represents the view of market players we think the current pricing environment presents attractive valuations as an opportunity to increase reserves in strategic markets and we view these consolidations as a positive relative to LNG and other key end markets for us.
Turning to power U.S.
market activity has been dominated by natural gas generation developments.
Power generation from natural gas is favored by a trend towards cleaner fuels with higher efficiencies and lower emissions retirement of coal plants and phase outs due to EPA restrictions and lower power prices.
We see opportunity in additional combined cycle plants as well as simple cycle developments.
Related to fabrication services and addition to jointly pursuing many of the previously discussed opportunities with our Engineering &amp; Construction Group we have solid levels of activity and cryogenic storage small LNG storage pressurized solutions and terminal storage for LPG and regasification projects globally.
Additionally the inclusion of the engineered products business positions us to continue the expansion of our proprietary equipment within the refining petrochemical and gas processing end markets.
Now technology has seen some delays and licensing from client uncertainty with oil pricing the slowdown in China and the continuing effects of the sanctions and currency devaluation in Russia.
However technologies refining activity has been better than anticipated driven by the need for hydrocracking projects to meet global diesel demand and although gasoline demand is flat the required reformulations are requiring additional need for our products.
Now finally in our Capital Services Group our Federal Services business continues to adjust to an environment of tight budgets by focusing on federal budget priorities mission-critical support services and energy program opportunities.
For our facilities and plant services business the opportunities there remain solid with continued focus on international and end market expansion.
We expect continuing growth of our $30 billion of backlog while maintaining solid margins in all of our reporting units.
During the first quarter our backlog was affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations representing a reduction of $300 million compared to the previous quarter.
Mike will discuss this and other FX impact in more detail in a couple of minutes.
Now as the geographic mix of our backlog has shifted given the growth in North America approximately 15% of our backlog and 40% of our revenue is still currently generated outside the U.S.
and we forecast that this 60-40 split will be constant throughout the year.
As we have previously discussed we expect our backlog burn to remain as planned at approximately 35% to 40% for the year with no expected delays in the pace of our revenue.
Our oil and gas projects along the Gulf Coast continued to advance with engineering and procurement and initial early construction progressing.
Our Australian mechanical erection and instrumentation scope on two major LNG projects remain on track while our repertoire [ph] refinery project in Cartagena Columbia is winding down construction and will completely later this year.
Turning to our nuclear projects V.C.
Summer and Vogtle both projects continue to make substantial physical progress.
In February the first of 34 walls [ph] modules for the Vogtle unit 4 CA 20 module were appended marking the start of the assembly process.
We’re also preparing for key module placements later this year such as the setting of the CA 01 modules in May and June.
Additionally we continue to work with our customers and partners on outstanding commercial issues with positive results particularly on Vogtle where the client is working closely with our team to address costs and schedule challenges in a very productive manner which should resolve in improvement in cash flow and progress of the work.
As I noted during our last call integration savings in 2014 exceeded $100 million dollars and we expect to achieve additional cost reductions of approximately $50 million in 2015 which when achieved will total over $200 million of savings since the financial close of our Shaw transaction.
Our positioning in key end markets strong backlog execution capabilities and operational efficiencies support our plan to continue to generate value to our shareholders via revenue earnings cash performance in line with our previous indications.
We are on track to deliver on our capital allocation priorities of repurchasing stock maintaining our dividends and continuing to pay down our debt while maintaining adequate balances to support our operation and growth initiatives.
So let me turn it over to Mike who will report the financial results of our first quarter.
Mike? Thanks Phil and good afternoon everyone.
I am very pleased to join the CB&amp;I management team.
I appreciate Phil's kind words and I'm looking forward to the years ahead.
I look forward to meeting most of you personally in the near future.
Let me discuss in greater detail our financial goals for the quarter.
Before we start let me remind you that our 2015 earnings are no longer presented adjusted or integration related cost.
We began 2015 with a strong operational performance and are well-positioned to deliver on our guidance for the year.
First let me walk you through our results at the consolidated level.
Revenues for the first quarter were $3.1 billion an increase of $198 million or a 7% increase over the first quarter of 2014.
The increase in revenues is due to progress on our large U.S.
nuclear projects increased LNG activity in the U.S.
and higher plant maintenance revenue.
As mentioned previously our first quarter 2015 revenue was impacted by foreign currency fluctuations associated with the strengthening dollar against other currencies generating a headwind of approximately $150 million relative to the first quarter of 2014.
Our gross profit for the first quarter totaled $370 million versus $301 million in the first quarter of 2014 with gross margins of 11.8% compared to 10.3% respectively an improvement of 150 basis points.
The increase is a result of higher revenue volume higher-margin backlog and leverage of operating cost.
Selling and administrative expenses decreased to $109 million from $119 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Our S&amp;A expense was 3.5% of revenue down 60 basis points from 4.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
The decrease was primarily due to lower incentive plan cost as GAAP requires certain stock based compensation for retirement eligible participants to be expensed in the quarter in which the awards are made.
First quarter stock based compensation expense totaled approximately $32 million or 43% of the estimated annual expense for the year.
We continue to expect our S&amp;A expense to be at or slightly less than 3% of revenue for 2015.
During the first quarter we had a gain of approximately $7.5 million related to the contribution of a technology to our unconsolidated Chevron Lummus Global joint venture and we had a foreign exchange loss of approximately $11 million associated with the re-measurement of certain non-U.S.
dollar denominated net assets.
On a net basis these items represent a $3.5 million expense for the quarter.
These amounts are included in the other expense or income line in our financial statements.
Our income from operations continues to benefit from higher margin revenue consistent execution higher operational leverage and lower S&amp;A levels.
During the quarter we generated operating income of $247 million or 7.9% of revenue compared to adjusted income from operations of $171 million or 5.8% of revenue in the corresponding 2014 period.
This represents a 44% increase in operating income year-over-year.
For the quarter our income tax rate was 30.8% compared to 29.5% for the corresponding period in 2014.
As a larger portion of our income is anticipated to be generated in higher tax jurisdictions in 2015 we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be between 31% to 33%.
As a result our 2015 first quarter net income equaled $132 million or diluted earnings per share of $1.21 compared to adjusted net income of $94 million or diluted adjusted earnings per share of $0.87 in the first quarter of 2014 representing a 40% increase year-over-year.
Turning to our future sources of net income our new awards for the first quarter totaled over $3 billion representing a book-to-burn ratio of roughly 1.
At the end of the quarter our backlog was approximately $30 billion largely down from $30.7 billion year-over-year and $30.4 billion at year end.
Approximately $300 million of the decrease versus year end was due to unfavorable currency fluctuations.
Now let's review our operating group results for the first quarter.
As Phil explained during the quarter we realigned our four operating groups to better align management oversight with service delivery platforms.
Our results for 2014 have been reclassified to reflect the operating group realignment.
Further in our Form 10-Q we have provided quarter results for all of 2014 on a basis consistent with 2015.
We intend to separately file a Form 8-K which will provide recasted operating group results on an annual basis for 2012 through 2014 consistent with our presentation for 2015.
We expect to file the 8-K next week.
First quarter revenue for Engineering &amp; Construction previously EC&amp;M totaled $1.8 billion an increase of $132 million or 8% over the first quarter of 2014.
Additionally E&amp;C revenue experienced an FX headwind of approximately $130 million compared to the 2014 period.
Income from operations totaled $136 million or 7.5% of revenue in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $85 million or 5% of revenue in 2014 representing a 250 basis point improvement in operating margins.
Our 2015 results benefited from higher revenue volume a higher-margin mix on our projects and leverage of operating cost.
Fabrication services generated first quarter revenue of $638 million a decrease of $34 million or 5% from 2014.
Our first quarter 2015 revenue decreased due to the delayed timing of new awards and headwinds related to FX.
Operating income totaled $52 million or 8.2% of revenue compared to $47 million or 7% of revenue in 2014.
Our first quarter 2015 results were adversely impacted by the previously discussed foreign loss of $11 million.
Technology reported revenues of $99 million compared to $103 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Income from operations for the first quarter was $48 million or 48.3% of revenue compared to $35 million or 33.8% of revenue for the corresponding 2014 period.
The increase during the quarter is due to the performance of higher-margin work and a gain associated with the contribution of a technology to our unconsolidated CLG joint venture.
Finally Capital Services previously Environmental Solutions generated revenue of $570 million an increase of $103 million or 22% over the comparable period.
Income from operations for the first quarter of 2015 was $10 million or 1.7% of revenue compared to $4.3 million in 2014.
The increase is a result of higher revenue volume and continuing benefits from previously implemented cost reduction initiatives.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow at the close of the quarter our cash balance was $347 million with $3.2 billion of credit availability to support new awards growth and strategic opportunities.
During the quarter we invested $29 million in capital expenditures serviced $27 million of our debt and paid $8 million of common stock dividends.
We also used $290 million of operating cash flow which was the net result of cash flow form earnings offset by a decrease in our net contract capital liability position.
As a reminder our contract capital reflects the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable.
Changes in our contract capital during the quarter were primarily driven by the timing and billing milestones on our U.S.
nuclear projects and the timing of accounts payable payments on our backlog.
We would expect our accounts payable balance to increase as our revenue increases over the remainder of the year.
Although we expect our cash to fluctuate on a quarterly basis we expect cash flows from operating activities to approximate net earnings for 2015.
With that I'll turn it back over to Phil.
Thanks Mike.
Let's open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
Hello Michael.
Good afternoon everybody.
Welcome back Mike.
Hey Mike good to talk to you.
Yes usually people leave this industry don’t come back.
So this is pretty special.
I love this industry.
I know as we all do.
First question I guess for Phil thinking about the opportunities you are seeing in the U.S.
Gulf Coast looking at your pipe fab and your tankage [ph] business and may be some of the opportunities in accessing labor do you still feel there is a healthy level of business and opportunities that is may be a little bit better and more tangible than maybe the industry or we would have thought maybe six months ago given the break in oil and the concern about the cap spending? Yes Mike despite the – the volatility in the oil prices as we said at the end of last year when analyzing our potential pipeline of new awards we saw I think at that time we said less than 5% of those new prospects that could be affected by changes in the oil pricing and that's still our position.
Very little impact on what we saw for the year as far as new awards in terms of geography and where those awards are going to come from.
Clearly it is heavily weighted in the U.S.
by geography we expect that probably over 60% of our new awards will be somewhere will be in the U.S.
with the rest divided throughout the rest of the world.
As far as the impact on work probably the place that we've seen it immediately is in our technology group and a lot of that has to do more with the strong U.S.
dollars and the exchange rate in places that we need good market positions such as Russia and China to make our plan we've seen some headwind there.
So we've seen some delays in order because of the 60 ruble adjustment and the slowdown in China.
But again that will reverse at some point and it is not a major impact on our overall plan.
So bottom line as we projected we still see the projects going forward.
We still see the petrochemical projects going forward.
I thought today's announcement on Shintech was useful as far as signaling that there is still petrochemical projects out there and we still see some progress.
We're well positioned in the combined cycle market.
We anticipate that there are probably 70 on the drawing boards over the next few years and certainly we're well positioned to get certain amount of that.
And then LNG development continues.
So as we said at the end of the year that's how we see it for the remainder of this year and 2016.
And so my follow up is as you realign some of the business units with different factors is that the sense of is there more cost synergies that are and maybe fab services or in the Capital Services business is there any change to the margin targets or the returns that the Capital Services can generate given you restructure a little bit here moving into 2015? Thank you.
That's certainly part of the – the primary standard for those changes was or efficiency and our delivery to our customers based on the types of work that they do.
And the synergies are growing our customer base as well as the commercial structure certainly will benefit from adding critical mass to our Capital Services group on our facility and plant services.
There is also consistent margins.
We don’t see that necessary the dilution effecting the other groups where it was previously aligned.
So we think that's a positive benefit for shareholders was well as our customers and certainly operational efficiencies.
On the engineered products the heaters and the heat transfer equipment and the fabricated equipment that we do along with midstream projects that was a logical move.
They are not merged with anyone.
They are a separate sub unit under fabrication services but we're all ready seen the synergies in terms of shop utilization and other opportunities by making that move.
So it was all good again the consolidation does not change.
I think the margin will reflect a pure reflection of the commercial structures for both technology and the other groups.
And once you get through all the accounting shift and this I think it will be pretty clear to you.
But it made sense and made a lot of sense from a business standpoint.
Thank you Phil.
Thank you Mike.
Your next question will come from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Good afternoon guys Mike happy to have you.
Hi Andrew how are you doing buddy? Good so Mike we'll start you with a fun one so I know you said that our cash from ops would still equal net income this year but you started out in a pretty big hole in 1Q.
So can you talk about whether 1Q was worse than your own expectations and why were contracts in progress and accounts payable such big drag in Q1.
You know you guys talked in the past about that's sort of dying down here especially contracts in progress so what's going on? Well thanks Andy and the answer here it was a little worse than I had anticipated and primarily on the accounts payable side I think we knew that contract capital was going to be a drag as related to the contract primarily on the nuclear jobs we knew that was pretty much embedded in the first three or four months a year.
So we got through that kind of as expected.
And we also knew that some of the new awards that we won over last 12 months were still kind of in that engineering and repeating phases.
And as that ramps up and a lot of half the year you'll see us then progress to generating more cash flow.
So yes I think there's still a lot of confidence that we'll be for the year being that $500 million to $600 million range of operating cash flows and I think we get there really two or three different ways one just doing a better job of managing accounts payable and monitoring that.
Two as revenue progresses during the year in some of these new projects ramp up into the procurement and construction phase traditionally that's where you see us getting positive cash flows from there.
So I mean I think those two Andy I think we'll be able to do that and then the third aspect is just the guys are doing a great job as Phil mentioned on the nuclear jobs.
And so we're working closely with the customers.
We're getting close to some billing milestones.
We're also working with them as far as being able to hit those milestones and also potentially pull some forward.
So with that I think you'll see the nuclear jobs being less of a drag in the last three quarters of the year than you saw in the first quarter and then improvements on those other two areas.
Okay mike that's helpful.
So you said in the past that Lake Charles would be done with most of it is in modular fabrication by the end of April so where are you in the progress on that? Well that's still progressing.
We are finishing up the committed work at Lake Charles and essentially they will be out of the nuclear business here and in short order we still provide any fabricated materials from [indiscernible] and certainly and there are some subcontract work to Toshiba and to Westinghouse in a couple of other non CB&amp;I shops.
So we're pretty much on our way out of Lake Charles as planned.
I guess how does that work so as it slips meaningfully from April do you have to suffer some of the expense there or how does that work? No we're not suffering any expense.
The original scope of the work is certainly within budget and on schedule for both projects as we anticipated.
The noise around the schedule and the cost have to do with the forward-looking work that we’ve been talking about but Lake Charles has pretty much made all their commitments as planned and as I said we’ll be converting its shop capacity more to standard fabricated pipe work and other operations.
Got it and then just one more quick one on the nuclear projects can you talk about discussions if you are having them with your consortium partner how are you going to resolve the disagreements with your partner and are you going to have any sort of formal dispute resolution process or really how do you resolve these issues when you have them or is it just going to take a while for it? Well there is a lot of issues already in the pipeline as you know and there is a formalized dispute resolution prescribed in the contract which we are following with them and reviews and again it takes time.
There is entitlement that we have for engineering from either the technology provider or the in some cases certainly the licensees and then certainly the technology provider has to establish entitlement in their contract to licensee.
So it’s very complicated.
But one that we’re pursuing aggressively and one where we're gaining pretty good cooperation from the licensees and from the technology provider.
So it’s a challenge and it’s going to take a while but we’re not alarmed.
We think certainly the case is very clear our positions are very clear.
It’s just going to take time to work through these.
Okay thank you.
Thank you Andy.
Thanks Andy.
Your next question will come from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Hi guys.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steve.
Hi.
Hi Steve.
Hi Mike.
In terms of what's still left to book for the year how much is big project versus medium versus small or underpinning kind of work and kind of where you have the most confidence versus engagements [ph] coming out of Turkey then Russia and China but just maybe broadly talk about that mix? Yes.
Well I will give you some broad terms obviously they are competitive issues so I can’t get too specific on that.
But generally we see that there is going to be fairly well distributed through the last three quarters heavily concentrated as you could imagine as far as larger backlog in our Engineering &amp; Construction business.
As a good mix there is certainly some ethylene plant works of some very good size that we probably see in the first half of the year.
There is also some downstream work.
There is some international work that we see fairly significant work but if I look at our prospect sheet and I am just doing some quick addition we will have some major jobs of several billion dollars with approximately still around $4 billion of underpinning work that we anticipate this year which is normal for our business.
So we’re on track for all that although we stopped guiding to new awards we certainly indicated that we expect our new awards to certainly approach the levels that we experienced last year if that timing and all happens for us.
So we’re still encouraged we’re optimistic.
Again the markets in which we’re positioned are still very strong and seem to be relatively unaffected so far by the volatility in the oil prices.
And Steve I would just comment from a revenue standpoint for 2015 we have indicated that we haven’t seen any significant slowdowns in any of the large projects that are in backlog that we expect to convert into revenues so we've indicated that about 35% to 40% of our revenue as Phil said in his opening remarks would convert into revenue and you combine that with the level of typical underpinning awards we get for the year to the tune of round $4 billion.
I think that certainly serves well and looks promising for hitting the revenue guidance for the year.
Okay that’s helpful and then Phil and Mike as well I know you mentioned that Shintech project is cost reimbursable.
I’m assuming that is just the nature of that particular project was but how you’re thinking about how much risk more broadly to put in backlog at the moment have you sort of reached the maximum point of where you want to have fixed price in there or are you comfortable putting more fixed priced projects in there? Well Steve the reason we noted that cost reimbursable of the construction because it was a fairly unusual kind of combination contractually for us that we normally don’t bid construction on any jobs alone unless they’re reimbursable or there are some other mitigating factors.
In this case we’ve had relationship with Toyo Engineering for 40 to 50 years in a variety of ethane and ethylene projects all over the world.
It was a natural – I think it was a natural joining of resources when Toyo who had a contract with VisionTek who is a Japanese company brought that project to United States and we offered our services because of our expertise in self-performed construction combined with technology.
Generally on those projects as we saw it was with Occidental [ph] as we will see with some future projects will provide our technologies and the buying pattern tends to be with those type projects.
If you have a delivery model that they would prefer to continue to do basic engineering and EPC and that would be the norm going forward.
Most of those projects are fixed price which is fine because it’s our technology and certainly we will self-perform and control all the critical activities.
On top of that there are still opportunities to sell our fabricated pipe services as well as our steel plate structures on top of that.
So they are good profit opportunities they are great projects to be involved in and we think we’re well positioned.
And Steve I mean I would know if you just look at our existing backlog where it stands today we’re at about let's say 70% 30% fixed cost versus cost reimbursable and I think we are very comfortable assuming that risk when we can manage all the aspects of the service delivery.
Thanks great.
Welcome back Mike.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question will come from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi good evening hi Phil and welcome back Mike.
Thanks Jamie.
I guess two questions Mike my first question is directed to you I guess can you just sort of talk about I guess I know you've only been on the job about three weeks but you’re a veteran of the industry so can you sort of talk about your observations of CBI over your first couple of weeks and sort of what your top two or three priorities are that you want to get your arms around over the next sort of three to six months.
And my second question is for you Phil or probably more for you Phil or Mike either one just in terms of capital allocation I think there was an expectation I understand the cash flow dynamics over the first quarter but can you talk about how you’re thinking about share repurchase over the next sort of 12 to 18 months and any update on possible divestitures or portfolio changes? Thanks? And through the world Mike and I will take the first half after Mike’s question.
Thanks Jamie.
No I mean I'd say overall very favorable impressions my first three weeks here got a chance to sit down and meet probably the top 60 70 plus folks in the organization at quarterly reviews last week and I would say very impressed with the level of the senior team and as well as the guys running the business out in the operations and all.
So that is certainly very comforting for a new guy coming in.
The second observation is very encouraging just from the I'd say the diversification of the organization and not only we talk a lot about the diversification among the industry we serve as well as geographies but what I’m encouraged about is the business mix to be able to kind of serve all aspects of the E&amp;C mix but then you also have a nice balance with some recurring revenues among the technology groups and client services and all and this underpinning work to the tune of $4 billion.
So I think it’s a nice balance between being able to after some of the very large projects and then also having that reoccurring revenue stream and all.
I would say things that I’m going to be focused over the next six months obviously is just learning the business and all I mean obviously been in this industry for a long time but I need to meet the folks got to see some projects and all.
So I’m hitting the road next week and I'll be gone off and on probably for the next six or eight weeks seeing shareholders as well as meeting some of the business folks and understand the businesses.
Okay on your second part the capital allocation and commitment to have that as a primary priority for our capital deployment over the next few years is still on track.
I think in our last earnings call we said that we would probably start implementing that in earnest the second half of the year as our cash flows continue to increase.
We feel we have a plenty of liquidity as far as the operating expenses of the company our costs are in line.
So we certainly intend to file through our target still is to reduce our share count by at least the amount that was considered in the Shaw acquisition that’s close to 10% of our stock.
We’d like to get that substantially done by the end of next year and we think looking at our cash flows and other opportunities that’s certainly achievable.
As far as divesture opportunities as I mentioned we’ve looked at number of those.
This is more of a buyer's market today at least they think than a seller's market but we’re going to be careful.
We're not going to tell you things that's less than book value on divestures is going to be and should we make divestures we’re going to plough that directly back into share repurchase full stop.
So we've got those conversations.
We’re looking constantly at how we rebalance our portfolio going forward and we’re still committed to share repurchase is our key priority goal Jamie.
Yes Jamie the other thing I would add is one of the things I really want to look at things to start looking at net return criteria’s and things like that.
So we look at the businesses and see what businesses are generating return in excess of our VAC [ph] and certainly as we think about capital allocation in the way we invest money we will take that same approach and the way I look at it always compare any really investment to return of buying our stock and so that will be the approach we take going forward.
Alrighty thanks.
I’ll get back in queue.
Thanks Jamie.
Your next question will come from Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob this afternoon.
Hi Nick.
And so you just touched on it a little bit I was hoping we could get a little more detail around just any sort of possible divestures are you expecting anything like that in 2015 and is there any interest from perspective buyers at the movement? There is no current well there is always interest I think in some of our assets but the point is all of our units are making money.
Longer-term there may be some considered more core than others in our longer term strategy.
Again we’re going to hold everyone to the standard of their ability to generate profit and cash flow and certainly their book value and what is a fairly tight market right now for divesting assets.
But we are looking at that we're well positioned whenever we structure or restructure we always take that into consideration in terms of how that’s valued in the marketplace and would that be a greater value to our shareholders if we monetize those assets.
So we’re looking at that constantly.
There is nothing currently on the screen that I could talk about but certainly we’ve had people interested in a variety of technical assets and other parts of our company but nothing immediate.
Yes I mean Nick when you think of investments or divestures we’re really going to look at that and really creating value for the shareholders and the way you do that as you determine what’s the best result and looking at returns.
So all of that will be based on it will be a very powerful analysis and be a return based analysis.
That’s really helpful.
And then secondly just in terms of the bidding environment right now what sort of competition are you seeing in the Petchem and power spaces and just especially with the lower oil and gas as the work become more competitive and sort of moving into those markets.
In the power space the concentration has been on primarily the combined cycle opportunity in the marketplace.
There are just a handful of major competitors out there that have the kind of resume and experience of these combined cycle plans and the capacities under which they operate that owners are looking at and that would be certainly the usual suspects of CB&amp;I as well as Petrofac and Zachry key wit and Fluor and JGC as some of the primary conversations not a daunting list of competitors but certainly a good list.
We have not seen anything real pricing strategies that will concern us.
It’s primarily your resume and your qualifications in the number of areas so it’s not really a pricing competition as much as just a qualification competition.
As far as LNG we’re well positioned to that particularly with our collaboration with Chiyoda between the two of us we’ve probably been involved in probably 40% to 50% of the LNG capacity in the world.
Again lot of that positioning is due to the need for bankable projects with the off take agreements and the finance of the projects.
So they need creditable qualified firms to deal with that that too is a very short list between us and Chiyoda as joint venture partners.
There are joint ventures including Fluor and JGC which is very good competition as well as Technip and a few others but again not a long list of competition for those.
Technology is very well prescribed fabrication services is more fragmented but if you look at our tank business I think one could fairly say that our position in steel plate structures in our tank business especially on the large projects is very good as well as our fabricated pipe so we are in the lead in many of our markets.
It's always competitive but we feel pretty good that our win ratios are higher than the industry average and we expect that to continue.
Yes and then Nick I mean I think you could classify that pricing has being rational and that’s really all we asked for and then really your expertise rolling out there.
That’s great that’s really helpful.
I’ll jump back in the queue now.
Thanks guys.
Okay Nick.
Your next question will come from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Hi good afternoon.
Mike welcome back.
Hi Chase.
Thanks Chase.
How are you doing? Good.
So I just wanted to ask another cash flow question.
One of the things that you've mentioned that would potentially you are hopefully drive cash flow over the new few quarters was billings on the nuclear projects.
Can you give any color as to what the relative importance of that is and hitting the guidance of getting cash flow from ops close to net income? And do you feel that the negotiations around the change orders create any risk to these collections on the work in the future.
Let me start I’ll let Mike add some additional color to that.
The assumptions around cash flow going forward when we did our forecast and projections for the year was very little dependent there was very little dependence upon settlement if you will of the claims.
So I mean we looked at it from the perspective of progress and progressable work based on new milestones opening up the world fronts once certain things happen critical modules are set and those types.
And so it's really built mainly on the progress of the work and additional cash flows from those projects very little was given on credit in terms of settlement of claims.
So that would be if we got some settlement claims that would be upside.
So we as we continue to work on that that environment continues to improve.
I can’t say that we’re getting a lot of great conversations and response financially from the orders and continues to discuss with our consorting partner.
So that continuously improving but our assumptions there was very little dependence on claims as an opportunity to lead our cash flow projections.
Mike you want to add anything? Yeah I men so tell you something that I think I agree with that I mean I think the the important thing is on the nuclear job we need to stay on track and on progress and I think we are to hitting the billing milestones that we had in the budgets.
And so I’ve seen no reasons while we won’t hit those milestones and then be able to timely bill and then timely collect and then the rest of really hitting our cash flow is really dependent on progressing the other job in our backlog especially some of the larger ones and again those continue to be on progress.
We are doing a great job of completing the engineering getting into procurement space that’s when you start to see some nice cash flow being generated.
Okay and then and you guys had a nice win that you announced with the Ethane Cracker.
You now have quite a bit of work in the Gulf Coast region clearly something’s outside of your projects have slowdown but I was just wondering if you could comment on the capacity there given how much work you do have in that region with the 2 LNG projects and one or two petrochem large petrochem plants? Sure engineering capacity we still have plenty of head wound in the engineering capacity we certainly have plenty of capacity in the fabrication shops for the pipes works to support that.
We are actually benefited from some of the changes in oil services and some of the offshore production platforms with reduction in force from much of that workforce.
For example many of the people that are involved in offshore production whether they be welders or engineers or other skilled crafts the difference in rates are very nominal.
The skill sets are same so we’ve actually benefited from hiring those.
We are still around 54 000 in terms of headcount despite coming down on a couple of major projects the Papua New Guinea job last year and the demobilization of our Cartagena job we still maintain our headcount pretty high level and then expect that to increase.
We’re hiring people as we speak and will continue to do so but the edge the risk if you will on the 20 000 or so people we're going to need to do our projects over the next several years certainly we’ve seen a reduction of that risk and more of an interest in coming to work for CB&amp;I that’s particularly in the direct labor address.
Okay thanks a lot.
Okay.
The next question comes from John Rogers with Davidson.
Hi good afternoon and welcome Mike as well.
Just I guess two quick follow-ups one on the cash flow on the decreased accounts payable just confirm there’s no significant contract disputes or timing issues that had come up during the quarter? No that’s I’ll let Mike expand on that but that’s a great point I’m glad you brought it up.
Now this is straight payables this is straight billing issues and are trying to getting rigorous around that whole process which we felt some frustration for a while I think that I've mentioned in previous calls.
Part of that was driven by the change in mix of our projects over the years with some huge reimbursable projects and glad to answer that we've talked about that getting a bit behind the curve on some of those but it’s not a matter they are not trapped cash and it’s not cash that’s in disputes it’s just getting the money.
Yes I mean that’s exactly right John and I think it’s really you know there are two issues.
The one is just timing of the projects.
As you have certain projects kind of ramping down and then before our other big projects ramp up I think it’s just a kind of a timing hit us and then quite frankly it’s just us paying more than we historically have paid I guess is the best way to put it.
I mean I look at my DPO and my DPO actually decreased couple of two or three days year-over-year.
Whereas my DSO improved which is good but we didn’t do it as good a job controlling the DPO from that same point.
Okay and then… But the good news in that the good news is that John is we can manage with that.
Absolutely.
We can immediately start seeing improvements on there and also the confidence I think on the other part of that the nuclear projects are part of that issue but still these are known issues and we’ll be able to show some real improvements here I think.
Okay and then Phil just in terms of power plant or the combined cycle market opportunity.
Your thoughts on what the potential market is there I mean could it rival what we’ve seen in ethane or some of the LNG work over the next couple of years we have been waiting? Yes we're really excited about it.
Yes I know well its common.
But we're really excited about it.
If you look generally on the macro levels you will know because you read the same reports still have 40% of our power generated by coal plants which have to be phased out.
We see something in the neighborhood of 70 combined cycle power plants on the list if you will in the United States a heavy concentration in the Northeast you have some out in California as well as the Southeast along the Gulf Coast as well.
And those are projects that we believe are many of them are in this next year.
We have several on our plan going forward this year.
They tend to range in the $0.5 billion plus range and they tend to be all EPC.
So we’re in a pretty good position for that and we’re aggressively pursuing those opportunities.
So we think this year you’re going to see probably more of those opportunities hit our screen than you have in the past so we’re very excited about that market.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Good after noon.
Hi I was afraid you weren’t going to join us.
I snuck in.
On the dispute resolution with the nuclear plants is there a time timetable there that you can talk to us about? There is not a timetable per se.
I mean it’s a very complicated matter as you can imagine and it is more of the lawyers and the courts than it does with ours issues.
But there is a certain protocol that deals with the certainly entitlement approved for technology and for us so we backup to all that.
But there’s no timetable that I can see that I can speak to as far as when I think this is going to be resolved.
So it’s we’re approaching it and taking certain aspects of that and chunks if you will and position ourselves and negotiating through this.
But again the dispute resolution is not governed by time.
It is governed by the courts and the legal process.
Yes but Marty and Phil I think the encouraging thing is what I've heard in my time here is that the lines of communication are open.
And I think any time you're communicating and there's really three way communication between us the technology provider and the customer I think that's what's encouraging.
And also it's not like folks are not returning our phone calls and meetings are being held.
So there's good communication going on Marty and from that standpoint start and I think the business feels like we're making progress.
Great that was it from me.
Welcome back to the Engineering &amp; Construction industry Mike.
Marty I look forward to seeing you soon.
Thank you and I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Well first of all let me thank everybody for participating on our call this afternoon.
As I said earlier we remain very confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth consistent with our expectations for 2015 and convert these new awards in the long-term to quality backlog.
We continue to be optimistic about our markets and prospects and it is shaping up to be another strong year.
So we appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
And with that that concludes our call thank you.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's CB&amp;I first quarter 2015 financial results conference.
You may now disconnect.