Good afternoon.
My name is Holly and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the CB&amp;I Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Before beginning today's call the company would like to caution you regarding forward-looking statements.
Any statements made or discussed today that do not constitute or are not historical facts particularly comments regarding the company's future plans and expected performance are forward-looking statements that are based on assumptions the company believes are reasonable but are subject to a range of uncertainties and risks that are summarized in the company's press release and the SEC filing.
While forward-looking statements represent management's best current judgment as to what may occur in the future the actual outcome or results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any such statements.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Philip Asherman President and CEO of CB&amp;I.
Thank you Mr.
Asherman.
You may begin.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we report Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron's results for the second quarter of 2015.
With me today is CB&amp;I's Chief Financial Officer Mike Taff who will discuss the company's overall financial performance.
But before we discuss our results for the quarter I'd like to highlight our safety performance.
It's an important core value as well as the key indicator to the operational performance of companies within our industry.
Now for the first six months of 2015 CB&amp;I worked over 72 million man-hours with a loss time incident rate of 0.01.
This translates to just one lost-time incident for every 18 million hours worked.
Also included in that number are over 50 projects around the world where our employees have worked at least 250 000 hours on each project without even a recordable injury.
Examples of our industry-leading performance include our multi-billion dollar refinery expansion in Cartagena Colombia with more than 108 million work hours worked at this site without a single lost-time incident.
At the mixed oxide fuel fabrication facility in South Carolina we have more than 22 million hours without a lost-time incident.
Our Gorgon MEI project in Australia is approaching 10 million hours without a lost-time incident and both the Vogtle nuclear project in Georgia and our fabrication facility in Louisiana have surpassed 6.4 million hours with zero lost-time incidents.
Now our safety record is the combination of our core values driving our organizational philosophy which relies on tools for proactive data analysis and accountability from our leadership roles for the results and is the overall responsibility of keeping everyone safe.
Our belief is zero injuries are achievable and we continue to find ways to remain at the forefront of safety practices.
And also our relentless commitment to safety is a key element to remaining an employer of choice an important differentiator that clients focus on.
Now let's turn to the quarter's results.
During this quarter we generated $3.2 billion in revenue and revenues for the first half of 2015 totaled $6.3 billion a 2% increase year-over-year despite continued negative headwinds associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
While revenues for the first six months of the year have been negatively impacted by $390 million from foreign currency fluctuations our operating margins are still benefiting from the wind-down of our larger reimbursable projects and the ramp-up of our fixed-price projects along the Gulf Coast.
Operating income for the quarter was almost 9%.
Our net income of $170 million represents a 14% increase year-over-year.
Earnings per share for the second quarter were $1.55 and $2.76 for the first six months.
Importantly during the quarter we also generated positive net operating cash flows of $95 million representing an improvement of $320 million in net operating cash from the comparable period in 2014.
New awards totaled $2.8 billion for the quarter and included a diverse mix of size location and end markets.
Significant awards included a confidential client combined cycle gas turbine power project in the U.S.
for $600 million several maintenance services awards in North and South America engineered products in Russia and Mexico and in the U.S.
scope increases for our large nuclear projects as well as a variety of technology and fabrication awards globally.
This mix underscores the benefits of our diversified offerings versus pure EPC models.
We're also pleased to report that we have repurchased over 4 million shares in the past few weeks almost half the stock used for the Shaw transaction.
And we'll continue to be in the market with the expectation to spend up to our $200 million cap within the week.
We continue to believe that our stock is a great value and we'll focus on repurchases as a capital priority by balancing the need to reinvest in the business maintain a modest dividend and pay down debt and with balance sheet optimization as our primary goal over the foreseeable future.
Now our long-term backlog projections got a real boost this quarter when we were selected by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation along with our joint venture partners Chiyoda Corporation and Saipem to design and construct process and ancillary infrastructure associated with their LNG development program in Mozambique.
In the fourth quarter we expect to book around $3 billion which represents our share of the initial phase of the project.
But we're extremely proud of the effort of our joint venture team and their performance over many past months working with Anadarko on scope pricing execution planning organizational commitments logistics workforce – the list is very long.
But we were told by Anadarko we won not only for our LNG experience and the collective capability of our joint venture but they are most impressed with our team's transparency professionalism and the obvious confidence and trust that has been established by our three companies over the many years working together.
And we plan to be in East Africa for a very long time.
And we're proud to not only be part of one of the most important gas developments in the world but also in having an opportunity to participate in the economic growth that will result from this tremendous investment of capital skills that will contribute to a sustainable future for Mozambique.
Also in the back half of this year we're optimistic that we'll be awarded a world-scale ethane cracker in the U.S.
as we see continued development of major petrochemical projects domestically and internationally.
We're also optimistic of additional business and the growing combined cycle power generation market and we continue to expect our total traditional underpinning work across all of our end markets and businesses to be well over $4 billion of our new awards this year.
We have however faced some challenges in the business particularly in not achieving our margin expectations for fabrication services as well as a significant delay of some new awards particularly in steel plate structures which had been expected in the first half of this year.
Now we do expect that to turn around as we close in on the year and address the under-absorption in our pipe shops and award timing improves in our steel plate structure business.
This should result in around a 10% operating margin for the consolidated group which is still a couple of points lower than what we expect for that business going forward.
And as we said earlier in the year the troubling economic conditions in other parts of the world combined with a strong dollar and a sluggish China have slowed our traditional technology markets for new licenses and catalyst sales.
While maintaining nearly 40% operating margins and continued confidence in achieving our operating income targets for this year new sales are behind and will be a drag on that business for the remainder of the year which may impact our growth trajectory in Technology going into 2016.
However consistent with last quarter Technology's refining activity has been stronger than anticipated driven by the need for hydrocracking projects to meet global diesel demand.
And although gasoline demand is flat the required reformulations are creating additional need for our products.
Within our Capital Services group for our Facilities and Plant Services business the opportunities set remain solid and continues to benefit from our focus on international and end market expansion while our Federal Services business continues to experience a challenging government market.
At the end of the quarter our backlog approached $30 billion including the $270 million impact due to adverse foreign currency movements in our international backlog compared to the previous year.
During the quarter we made significant progress on our Gulf Coast projects in the United States.
Our LNG export terminals Cameron and Freeport are moving through the initial stages of development with our recruitment and training efforts continuing in full gear to staff these projects.
Our strategy of relying on traditional and non-traditional tools to attract and retain labor in the region continues to progress well.
We're leveraging our traditional tools such as robust databases forecasting analytics recruitment centers partnering with trade and community colleges and traditional advertising campaigns.
However we're also increasing our reach and scope through the use of mobile applications to reach new demographics.
These tools support our ability to engage and retain craft resources by enhancing their ability to attract future opportunities within the company and effectively transition to a new project.
And I'm also proud to highlight the fact that we added over 2 000 veterans to our employment roles over the past year.
The OxyChem ethane cracker in Ingleside Texas continues to track on schedule with progress reaching the halfway point.
As we announced earlier we recently added a new $115 million award for this project for the ethylene storage facilities at OxyChem's salt cavern location.
Also in the Gulf Coast we kicked off preliminary activities for our Shintech ethane cracker in Louisiana.
The Reficar expansion project in Cartagena Colombia is reaching completion later this year.
We continue to provide support prior to planned commission activities by the owner but all major scope has primarily been completed and personnel has been largely demobilized.
In Australia the Gorgon MEI project continues to progress as we support Chevron's efforts to hit their target dates and we continue to support Vogtle for the mechanical electrical scope and pipe fabrication supply for their LNG contract with Chevron at Wheatstone.
Now on our nuclear projects I am very happy to confirm SCANA's earlier press release that the CA01 module was set into the containment vessel today at the V.C.
Summer project.
We expect the same milestone at Vogtle shortly but the CA01 is a major structural module in the containment building of the nuclear island.
It weighs over 1 400 tons has 8 sub-assemblies and consists of 47 sub-modules and importantly will result in opening more progressable work at both sites.
Organizationally it's a very exciting time at CB&amp;I.
We currently have multiple initiatives to explore innovative ways to provide new solutions services and products to our customers and proactively continue targeting segments of the market with higher growth and potential.
For example we're developing new technology solutions to solidify our market share on heavy crude upgrading and meet new demand for higher-octane gasolines in refining.
We're also developing new offerings to our petrochemical value chain portfolio to leverage our extensive commercialization network and we continue developing the pilot plan to test the net power zero CO2 emissions technology.
And we'll be well-positioned to benefit from the current trend in demand for clean power generation as part of our joint venture with Exxon and the Three Rivers Group.
We're also strengthening our pipe-bending technology program with new product rollouts to increase our leadership position in these markets.
So the idea generation and initiatives we're currently pursuing is reflective of our proactive management of trends and one of the key benefits we derived from our integrated business model and interaction from different businesses.
Now let me turn it over to Mike who will report on the financial results for the second quarter.
Mike? Thanks Phil and good afternoon.
Let me discuss in greater detail our finance results for the quarter.
Revenue for the second quarter was $3.2 billion which was unfavorably impacted by $240 million due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus prior year.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 5% versus the prior-year quarter.
For the full year we expect foreign exchange impact on our revenue to be in the $700 million to $800 million range.
Gross profit for the second quarter totaled $383 million versus $381 million in the second quarter of 2014 with gross margins of 11.9% compared to 11.6% respectively an improvement of 30 basis points.
Year-to-date our gross margin reached $753 million versus $682 million in 2014 with gross margins of 11.9% compared to 11% an improvement of 90 basis points.
These increases were primarily a result of higher margin backlog.
Selling and administrative expense decreased to $85 million from $98 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Our S&amp;A expense was 2.7% of revenue down 30 basis points from 3% in the second quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date S&amp;A rate is 3.1% of revenue compared to 3.5% in the comparable period of 2014 an improvement of 40 basis points.
The decrease is primarily attributable to lower incentive playing costs and savings from our cost reduction initiatives.
We expect our full-year S&amp;A expense to be at or slightly less than 3% of revenue.
During the quarter we generated operating income of $284 million or 8.9% of revenue compared to adjusted income from operations of $270 million or 8.2% of revenue in the corresponding 2014 period.
This represents a 6% increase in operating income year-over-year.
Our income from operations benefited from net project savings of $16 million during the quarter.
Additionally foreign currency fluctuations during the period unfavorably impacted our operating income by $26 million relative to the comparable period in 2014.
Income tax expense in the second quarter was $79 million or 29.9% of pre-tax income compared to $73 million or 30.4% of pre-tax income for the corresponding period 2014.
For the full year we expect our expected tax rate to be within 30% to 31%.
Net income for the period was $170 million or 5.3% of revenue an increase of $21 million or 14% over adjusted net income for the comparable period in 2014.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.55 compared to adjusted earnings per share of $1.36 in the comparable period in 2014.
As Phil highlighted new awards for the second quarter totaled $2.8 billion representing a book-to-burn ratio slightly below 1.
At the end of the quarter our backlog was approximately $29.4 billion compared to $30.4 billion at year-end 2014.
The unfavorable foreign exchange impact on our backlog was approximately $270 million.
Now let's review our operating group results for the second quarter.
The second quarter revenue for Engineering Construction totaled $1.9 billion largely in line with the comparable period in 2014.
Revenue benefited from increasing link activity on our LNG export terminal projects and large nuclear projects in the U.S.
offset by net decreases in revenues in our cost reimbursable projects in the Asia Pacific region and Colombia.
E&amp;C revenue experienced a foreign exchange headwind of approximately $190 million compared to 2014 period.
Income from operations totaled $177 million or 9.2% of revenues in the second quarter compared to $133 million or 6.8% of revenues in 2014.
Our second quarter results benefited from a higher margin mix on our projects and benefited by approximately $28 million from the net impact of changes in forecast cost contractual entitlements and claims on our two U.S.
nuclear projects.
Additionally E&amp;C income reflects an adverse impact of approximately $14 million compared to the 2014 period due to lower revenues resulting from the previously mentioned foreign exchange headwinds.
Fabrication Services generated second quarter revenue of $611 million a decrease of $83 million from 2014.
Our second quarter 2015 revenue decreased due to the timing of new projects the wind-down of existing projects and headwinds related to foreign exchange fluctuations of approximately $40 million compared to the same period in 2014.
Operating income totaled $56 million or 9.2% of revenue compared to $78 million or 11.3% of revenue in 2014.
Our second quarter 2015 results were adversely impacted by low revenue volume lower margin mix and our Pipe Fabrication business and a $12 million impact from costs from project cost increases.
Technology reported revenues of $93 million compared to $102 million in the second quarter of 2014 a decrease of 9%.
The decrease was primarily due to lower catalyst volume and the timing of new awards.
Income from operations for the second quarter was $37 million approximately 40% of revenue compared to $37 million or 36% of revenues for the corresponding 2014 period.
The increase in margin is due to a more favorable mix of work during the period.
Last Capital Services generated revenues of $587 million an increase of $29 million or 5% over the comparable period primarily due to increased plant maintenance revenue.
Income from operations for the second quarter was $15 million or 2.6% of revenue compared to $22 million dollars or 3.9% of revenue in the comparable 2014 period.
The decrease is a result of reserves established during the period for uncollected receivables of approximately $7 million.
Now turning to our balance sheet cash flow and liquidity at the end of the quarter our cash balance was $355 million.
During the quarter we generated $95 million of net operating cash flows an improvement of over $320 million versus the second quarter of 2014.
Our year-to-date net operating cash usage of $195 million represents an improvement of $180 million from the comparable period in 2014.
For the first six months of 2015 we have invested $64 million in capital expenditures serviced $53 million of our debt and paid $15 million of common stock dividends.
Following the close of the quarter we entered into financing agreements to amend or extend our existing credit facilities and establish additional financing capacity based on our assessment of an attractive lending environment the ongoing growth in our end markets and our strategic initiatives.
As described in our recent Form 8-K we amended our $3.25 billion revolving credit facility to remove our barring sub-limit and amended our $650 million revolving facility to increase capacity to $800 million extend the expiration to 2020 and remove our borrowing sub-limit.
We also entered into a $500 million term loan maturing in 2020 from which we prepaid $275 million of principal due in 2017 on our existing term loan.
Additionally this week we finalized a private debt placement for $200 million in senior notes maturing in 2025.
Additional details of this debt placement will be included in our Form 10-Q.
The combination of these strategic actions increased our borrowing capacity by approximately $1.5 billion with current total available credit capacity approaching $4 billion for borrowings letters of credit and bonding capacity.
These changes strengthen our ability to execute our long-term backlog return capital to shareholders and pursue additional growth initiatives while maintaining adequate funds for our working capital needs.
Moreover this is an important strategic step towards an efficient and optimal capital structure allowing us to extend the maturities of our total debt and positioning us to implement a formal capital allocation policy in the near future that should be favorable to our shareholders.
On that topic as Phil mentioned since the close of the second quarter we have repurchased approximately 4 million shares of our stock.
During the quarter our contract capital liability position reflecting the combined balances of receivables inventory contracts in progress and accounts payable decreased by $132 million compared to a $599 million net decrease in the first quarter of 2015.
As expected we improved our management of accounts payables and received several advance payments on our U.S.
lump sum projects.
In the second quarter our large U.S.
nuclear projects increased their contract capital asset position by $325 million.
In the second half of this year we expect the net contract capital position for these projects to remain roughly at current levels – in other words cash neutral as the setting of the CA01 modules will open up numerous high-value work fronts.
Our guidance for the year remains as previously stated.
Our revenue on a constant currency basis is expected to be at the lower end of our guided range of $14.4 billion to $15.2 billion.
Also we expect our 2015 earnings per share performance to be within our range of $5.55 to $6.05 and we continue to expect cash flow from operating activities to approximate earnings for the full year.
In summary we will continue delivering on our capital allocation priorities of maintaining a flexible capital structure and delivering value to our shareholders via sustainable growth solid margins strong cash flows and returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back over to Phil.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Thanks Mike.
Let's open the call for your questions.
And your first question is going to come from the line of Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Mike.
Good afternoon everybody and kudos Phil on hiring those veterans.
That's great news.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
First on Technology have bids and activity accelerated given the mix of the business that you see in Technology but it's just the timing given the current energy price and uncertainty that's pushing things out to sounds like late this season from late this year early next? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Mike when we first talked about where our company may be impacted by volatile oil and gas prices we talked about Technology as certainly in some parts of the world being subjected to that softness.
And that's what we've seen.
Russia and China are a big part of our markets for many of our technologies.
And of course with the foreign exchange and the ruble to the dollar as well as the sluggishness in the Chinese economy many of those opportunities that we saw in the first half of the year seem to be shifting to – are shifting to the right.
But counter to that it certainly is the ethylene opportunities here in the United States and the Middle East.
We're seeing some interesting refining technologies around Appalachia and other areas that are showing some real improvement.
So it's a mix.
It's not a – I don't think it's a sustained issue.
It's just one that contracts push to the right but we feel pretty confident that that money will be spent because those process units will have to be built.
But I think even with the mix of work their income projections for the year are still solid.
The sales line may cause some softening in next year but we're going to have to wait and see later in the year before we can forecast that.
I appreciate that.
My follow up Phil is as you look at your underpinning business that you talked about the $4 billion this year of new order opportunities is that still kind of hanging in there giving the uncertainties you've seen? Is it more geographically – more better U.S.
less so rest of the world? And is that where the diversity comes in with certainly on the structured products et cetera that you guys can turn to in this volatility? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah it's all the above.
Actually that's been fairly well predictable even with the other uncertainties.
These are projects and process units optimizations those type of things which refineries and other gas processing and other type of facilities continue to need to spend.
And that would also include all the Plant Services work and so the in-plant type work that we see around the world.
It would also include some engineering work that we do out of our European offices.
So that in totality is going to be at least $4 billion.
Some of that also is added by our Fabrication Services where much our underpinning work is almost the predominant part of our new award outlook for this year.
So it's quite different.
But the big driver of our backlog as you know is our Engineering and Construction work and that's roughly around 65% of our new awards this year.
And we see that trend to continue going into 2016.
And one final quick follow-up maybe for Mike.
You mentioned about the share repurchase in July.
Did you or Phil indicate that that and just in a little while that's going to be it for the year with the $200 million? Is there flexibility in that given the recapitalization you're going through right now? Just want to clarify on that.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Let me take part of that and then turn that over to Mike for some additional detail.
Remember I think we said early in the year that our goal was to initiate a share repurchasing plan over 2015 and 2016 that at a minimum would eliminate the $9 million of shares in our share count associated with the Shaw acquisition.
We had some headwinds to that in that we have a debt constraint that would allow us only to spend $200 million until we get below a 1.5 debt ratio.
We're not quite there yet so we still have that $200 million limit.
What presented an opportunity as you know is kind of a trifecta of opportunities between Greece China and the volatility in the oil prices drop in the oil prices which broke us through our 200-day moving average which started our 10b and allowed us to aggressively buy some stock.
So it was a great opportunity to do that.
Having said that we possibly could get back in the market if some things happen.
But as we continue to reduce our debt that'll still be a priority for our capital plans.
So Mike? Yeah.
No I think Phil said it all.
Certainly we are limited at this point based on our debt-to-EBITDA ratio being slightly above 1.5.
But as we think about a long-term kind of formal capital allocation plan that I'd like to see us roll out over the next 12-plus months that would certainly envision a continued return of capital to our shareholders based on the strong cash flow we see us generating in the near future.
Excellent gentlemen.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Chase.
Hi.
Good Afternoon.
Hey Chase.
So I guess just first a detail question.
Phil you mentioned that there was some scope increases on the nuclear projects.
You also Mike talked about cost improvements.
Can you just quantify any of that? Particularly with the scope increases is that approved or unapproved or anything that it's specifically related to? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well I think we've had a lot of conversation over previous quarters about the additional cost and scope associated with the projects.
So that's certainly part of that.
I don't have the number.
Mike do you? Yeah.
Total increase for both projects was around $500 million and primarily related to the shield building.
And a significant piece of that related to a number of our subcontractors all related to the number of design changes and all.
So those were quantifications that we received in this quarter and therefore we booked those increases in cost.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> What was the second part of the question Chase? Well no it was just around the cost improvements but I think you actually quantified that.
So – and I guess from a bigger picture standpoint we're hearing a lot of different things in the marketplace from a lot of different companies about the speed at which a lot of these LNG or chemical projects are moving forward.
You guys have a good pipeline but you did talk about some challenges in some of the markets.
I was wondering if you could just comment on the competitive environment as we go forward here.
As you know some of these chemical project investment decisions get delayed.
Is the pricing getting tougher or is it holding steady? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We continue to be very confident – and if you would just want to talk about petrochemical for a minute.
We had acknowledged that although there were many petrochemical projects out there we had probably seven that were on our immediate horizon that we were going to focus on.
We've been awarded three of those between Williams and OxyChem and Shintech.
We expect another large one that as Mike likes to say on the lip of the cup if you will.
Before the end of the year that will be awarded and we expect to see another one or two in 2016.
On the competitive environment that are the usual suspects here in the U.S.
We've been fortunate in that most of the competition in the U.S.
are U.S.
contractors.
So they would be the major tier contractors that you would expect to see list but very few of them.
Again the advantage that we would have in the ones that we've selected is our ability to provide the technology.
And typically if you can provide the technology and demonstrate that you have a good delivery solution our opportunity and our ability or probability to win that job is very very high.
And so that's what we target on for the U.S.
In the international markets it's much the same except the list.
The competitive list gets very I guess a lot broader.
We have a number of European and Japanese firms competing for that as well.
So it's a little bit tougher environment.
You probably see more pricing pressure on that.
So we're very cautious on those jobs.
We're very selective in terms of locations.
Most of work that we see are particularly in the Gulf region as opposed to other parts of the Middle East.
So we're seeing those.
But again there's no indication that those won't go forward.
So as far as LNG I think the work in the U.S.
that we've been projecting relative to Golden Pass for example is still working in a very preliminary stage.
The work at Elba Island of course with Kinder Morgan buying the assets from Shell we're continuing to work on that; as well as still feel that the Lake Charles work for BG has traction but again I think that will take some time given the Shell BG discussions.
But they still are very viable.
Most of them if not all of them have passed the initial hurdles as far as permitting.
So there's every reason to believe over the next couple of years those will go forward.
And then on top of that we continue to see discussion around additional expansion for the LNG facilities we currently have under way right now.
So LNG is still a big part of it and of course with East Africa we think that's a program that we're going to be involved in for decades.
So we're very excited about that.
So there's a lot of that around.
We see our backlog from LNG extending way past 2025.
And so it'll be a big part of our business for a long time.
Got you.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Steve.
Hi Phil.
Hi Steve.
Hey Mike.
Just on the cash flow good to see the progress there.
Just to clarify: first target.
I think you said – approximating net income I think you've also said in the past $500 million to $600 million.
Are those (37:57) to be consistent? And then could you just maybe give us a little bit of a roadmap on how the next few quarters could play out in terms of the gains to that? Is it going to be sort of steady or a bit lumpy? And maybe how much of that depends on procurement payments versus nuclear thing (38:15) versus other? Hey Steve.
Yeah you read my mind.
Yeah I think the $500 million to $600 million is a good number and that's kind of the range we've been using and that approximates net income.
And net income will be slightly north of $600 million based on our current EPS guidance.
As far as cash flow absolutely you'll see some lumpiness and I think it'll be progressively stronger in Q4 versus Q3.
But that's pretty normal for historical industry standards and certainly for CB&amp;I and all.
I think the big estimate here as it relates to the nuclear jobs I think getting those jobs to cash flow neutral is an important element of hitting that overall goal for the company but certainly we can see that happening because when you look at the increase in collections in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year it's significant with a number of those high-value work fronts improving.
And then secondly as you just mentioned from a procurement standpoint on the new jobs we see significantly less procured items and procured dollars going out in the second half of the year versus for the first half of the year.
So the combination of those two items alone on the nuclear side we see an improvement in cash flow related to the nuclear jobs in the $500 million-plus range second half compared to the first half of the year.
Okay.
So there's no timing on some of the LNG payments that we need to worry about shifting around or out of this year or anything? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> No.
Steve this is Phil.
The progress on those jobs are as anticipated and any down payments associated with new rewards this year certainly are baked into our forecast.
So those are very good in terms of cash generation.
We don't see anything to disrupt that.
Okay.
And just on bookings you've done around $5.8 billion year-to-date.
I know you're not guiding to official bookings so loosely you were targeting something around last year around $16 billion.
I know you've still got Mozambique and ethylene crackers gas plant underpinning it.
When I add it up it still seems like it might be $2 billion shy of that last-year number.
Is there anything else big that we're not thinking of? I mean it doesn't sound like you had any specific LNG projects in there.
Anything else we're missing? Yeah Steve.
No you're exactly right.
But no let me just give you a couple of numbers I think that will get you there because I was doing kind of the mental math yesterday as well.
So if you say current year-to-date we're on that $6 billion mark $5.8 billion we'll talk about underpinning it'll be another additional $2 billion plus in the back half of the year.
And then when you just take the couple of big awards that Phil had mentioned between the ethylene cracker and Mozambique that's well north of $4 billion in all.
And so you add to that that gets you up in that $12 billion plus range right there just adding those two or three numbers together.
And then to get us to where we think we need to be in that $15 billion $16 billion range you've got another $2.5 billion $3 billion award.
And Phil I think there's a number of things in the pipeline that easily get us over that hurdle.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean keep in mind we have other parts of the business including Fabrication Services and Capital Services which certainly add to that top line of new awards.
So we feel pretty confident.
We said at the beginning of the year it's going to be very back end loaded.
But as far as new awards approximating what we did last year I think we're still pretty confident we can get there.
Timing is always the question mark but we think there's a lot still left in the pipeline.
I think one interesting thing we've noted too is that the new business next year when we start talking about our guidance and plan for next year seems to be even more robust than it was this year.
So we see our funnel going into next year improving significantly than what we saw this year.
So we're quite encouraged by that.
Sounds good.
Thanks a lot.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question will come from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hello Martin.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks Marty.
I just wanted to maybe follow up on the last question in terms – when you look out into 2016 what are some of the areas where you're seeing strength and potential new awards? Is it on the power side domestically that you're confident on? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well I don't have a specific breakdown.
I can generally tell you that when you look at our concentration of work it's pretty close to what we've seen this year with the exception that our concentration in North America will only increase.
I think we'll probably end this year with work roughly split about 60% in the U.S.
with the rest remaining somewhere else in the world.
Of course Africa tilts that scale.
I mean at some point it's going to be a split between Africa and the U.S.
and a heavy concentration in LNG.
So we still see some combined cycle power generation certainly continuing into next year.
I think probably only about 15% of our backlog is going to come from somewhere outside the U.S.
which is a huge shift for us considering a few years ago where 90% of our work was somewhere outside the U.S.
So that's an interesting change for us but a very good change for us.
So we see some interesting opportunities in the Middle East and elsewhere.
Again East Africa I can't talk enough about the impact it's going to have on us long-term but certainly we will see I think some more LNG coming in this next year with some of the projects I mentioned as well as some additional combined cycle awards as well as everything outside the mix of work that we have or the mix of businesses we have.
Okay.
Yeah Marty.
This is Mike.
We certainly – just to add to that briefly I mean certainly power is an area that we see strength over the next I'd say up to five years.
We're tracking 65 to 75 plants that we think will be moving from fossil into the natural gas arena and those projects still – I mean those are typically in that $500 million to $700 million range.
But those are nice-sized projects Marty.
Okay.
And then on the steel-plate structures side you mentioned there's been some delay in rewards and kind of surprised given all the LNG and petrochemical and NGL export facilities projects that are going on.
Could you talk maybe more about where those delays are and confidence that you have that those awards are going to come through? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well there are a couple of very large ones that impacted that.
We were getting a number of – we're still selling a lot of spears in that business and a lot of smaller work around (45:31).
But we had a couple large ones which shifted to the left.
If I were a betting man I'd probably say that one of the larger ones will probably be announced pretty soon.
So that has already corrected itself.
And then there's Middle Eastern projects that we're looking at.
We're going to have to work through some of the terms to get comfortable with that so I don't know whether that will develop or not.
So it was really just a matter of the new awards that we're expecting to have in the first half of the year shifting to the other side and making them up for some other works.
So the business is still real solid but we just had that anticipation of some business that just didn't drop this first half.
Okay.
Thank you.
I'll turn it back.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Marty.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thanks Marty.
Your next question will come from the line of John Rogers with D.
A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning or good afternoon.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Good morning John.
Hey John.
I guess Phil just on the Fabricating Services or Fabrication Service s at this point how much of that work is associated with upstream projects either in backlog or current run rates? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> You're talking about LNG – including LNG? No not including LNG.
Sorry.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Okay.
Very small.
Very small.
Okay.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Very little.
It's – we've got a few – if you're talking about pipe fabrication or steel-plated structures...
Yeah and I guess everything.
I'm just trying to think about relative pricing commodity pricing risks (47:11).
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Right.
Well actually that's...
...and trying to understand that think about how that might impact bookings or opportunities going forward.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah.
Well maybe 5% of upstream purely.
But I think maybe and a way to look at it is that if you look at just the backlog associated with our own engineering construction work that creates about a $20 billion addressable market that really hasn't taken off yet for our pipe fabrication and much of our tank work.
So that's in addition to what other markets we can capitalize on for other owners and other contractors.
So that's why we're pretty excited.
I think on the pipe side when I was talking about under-absorption and margins we really think that when we look at the market they have and the ability to sell at the rates that they sell at with some again additional concentration better efficiencies and different ways of doing our work we ought to be able to raise those margins a couple points.
And with the volume that we think we can get out of that business that's a tremendous opportunity to drive more profitability to the bottom line.
So that's why we talk about that a lot.
So we think there's a huge opportunity there to continue to capitalize on that business.
So we'll be talking that in future quarters but something to keep an eye on.
Okay.
And then just in terms I guess especially on the Capital Services side to the business I was under the impression you guys were thinking about what you were going to do with portions or parts of that business longer-term as it relates to government.
Are you through that process now? And I mean – or is it still possible for restructurings or changes there? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well the Capital Services are – two parts to that.
There's the Federal Services which is pretty much ring-fenced and dedicated to those type of businesses for the federal government and related kind of projects.
And then you have the other side of Capital Services which are Planned Services Nuclear Maintenance Services a lot of smaller construction Capital Services for the plants tend to be very similar in terms of margin opportunity and a very high labor concentration in those.
So they're all kind of similar in what they do just different kind of businesses and industries.
So very diverse.
That's all very interesting to us.
They're all making money.
They're certainly not dilutive much on the business but still if we had an asset that isn't core or wouldn't be core to our long-term future and many of our analysts have suggested that perhaps federal services may fall in that category certainly we would consider looking at making a change there if we had the right offer.
Okay.
Thank you.
Appreciate the help.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> All right John.
Thanks John.
Your next question will come from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hey Vishal.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess my question is on the margins; the margins in the second quarter on the E&amp;C side came slightly better than expected.
How should we think about the balance of the year and what drove the outperformance in the margin side? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well we were very pleased to say the least on the margins.
Probably longer term we still though would say that on a run rate basis or year-over-year basis I would caution to guide you any more than just what's been our traditional bandwidth for those margins although I would suggest that we probably look at the top of that operating margin bandwidth of around 7% as kind of a norm.
We're going to have some quarters that are going to be much better and some quarters that may not be but I think what we see in our business there hasn't been – we haven't any reason to believe (51:06) much beyond that.
The conditions just – we're performing very well.
So as long as we do that perhaps incrementally that'll improve.
And 1% as you know on the kind of volume we drive could make some huge difference.
So we're continuing to push that up but sustainable we're not there yet.
So I would probably look at 7% as the margin to use modeling going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate that.
And just to clarify the operating cash flow guidance of $500 million to $600 million that includes the impact of the FX right? And then also just as you think about the capital program will the buyback be dependent to some extent on your hitting the cash flow targets? Or would that be independent? Yeah.
Well no it certainly would include the FX.
And no the buyback is more predicated on our leverage ratio.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Nicholas Chen with Ablemic Global.
Hi.
This is Nick Chen for Rob Norfleet this afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question guys and congratulations on a solid quarter.
Just looking back into the nuclear projects I was hoping we could get a little deeper into the unaccounted change orders.
I know we touched on it before.
Earlier you had mentioned that there were over 3 000 so I was wondering if we could quantify that a little bit more.
Well not so much on the total but yeah the total volume didn't change significantly.
It did – we did have a slight uptick in that.
I think the total amount of the change orders and all that you'll see in the 10-Q is about $1.28 billion.
And then what we've recognized as revenue associated with those is a little bit north of $400 million of which I think we've been paid about $210 million.
And all those details will be in the Form 10-Q that we get – that we'll get filed tomorrow morning.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Let me just clarify I think what you may have thought.
That 3 000 number was an absolute number of design adjustments that we've made.
Now not all that results in a change order.
Some of that is taken up in the original scope.
It only becomes cost if we've already started the work and have to change the work.
So it just – it really is an order of magnitude number to try to explain that this is a very complicated technology that we're dealing with.
And how the – and the concurrent design with the fabrication creates those kind of challenges.
But not all those 3 000 change orders result in additional cost.
They were just a number of changes.
But that was really meant to just describe that process more so than just the additional cost.
All right.
Thank you.
That clarification's very helpful.
And then just a final question.
Looking at the S&amp;A number it was definitely better than what we had forecasted.
Is that a sustainable level going forward? Or how should we think about that? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well we work hard on that.
We'd like to think that was pretty sustainable.
We've been consistently under 3% or right around 3% and that's where we like to be.
There's nothing that we're spending around here that would suggest that we're going to need to get beyond that.
So we work hard on that.
We think that's a good range 2.8% to 3% maybe a little over 3% some quarters but that's where we'd like to keep it.
Yup.
I think that percentage is exactly right.
I think if we can stay in that 2.8% to 3% long term I think we'll – I think it's a good place to be.
All right.
And sorry one last final question if that's okay.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Sure.
I saw a headline recently that NuGen signed a contract where they're going to be using three of Westinghouse's AP1000 reactors.
Just looking ahead at the grand scheme of things for nuclear projects if there any way you guys – how would you envision yourselves getting involved in a project like that? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Right now we're just concentrating on completing the projects that we have in front of us.
There's been a lot of speculation about new development.
There's a lot of discussion in Washington about how nuclear is going to fit into the energy policy going forward but it's going to take a while.
So right now we've got a lot of ways to address the nuclear industry.
Remember it's not just new builds it's also nuclear maintenance it's decommissioning work it's a lot of different services work so – and we do very well there.
We're also providing some project management support on the international projects in China which we'd be happy to do if any of those projects developed as well.
But right now we're just looking at the project ahead of us and doing the best job we can to try to get those over the finish line and make those the safest and most reliable plants out there.
So that's how we see our role.
Understood.
Thanks so much guys.
Thanks Nick.
And it appears we have time for one final question.
Your final question will come from the line of Jeff Volshteyn with JPMorgan.
Thank you for taking...
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to ask a few small questions on the nuclear projects and it's really about the updates to any sort of a timeline and the tone of the conversations that you have with various parties about previous disputed amounts.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> What is specifically your question? Is there an update to the timeline where you might get some resolution on this? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Well it's a work in progress.
Again there's no denying there's a tremendous number of commercial disputes that we're working with.
It's a balance between appropriately dealing with those disputes and still trying to get these projects built.
So all the above in terms of the licensees and the technology providers and the consortium are working hard to do that.
I can't give you a timeline.
There's no judgments or any other final decrees that would – that I could tell you that things would be determined.
But we're trying to get this through settlement not through the courts but – so I really don't have an answer.
But we freely admit that that certainly is one of the overhanging issues affecting certainly our share price and the narrative around these projects and we would love to find a conclusion of that.
And we certainly are investigating several pathways to get there but at a minimum we want to keep these things cash-neutral and would hope that by the end of the year we've got this situation stabilized.
Yeah Jeff I mean I think if you just look at near-term I think we're – I'm pretty optimistic about getting these projects back to cash neutral.
Just when I look at the scheduled payments that we have for the second half of the year versus the first half essentially we're – if we hit the milestones that we think we're capable of hitting in addition we have been successful just very recently in moving some milestones forward from 2016 into the back half of 2015.
Those two components combined would result in cash flows about twice as – double the amount of cash flows in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
So we certainly view that as positive.
That's helpful.
And then following up on the same subject can you help us frame is there any exposure for CB&amp;I from the accounts in restatement at Toshiba and Westinghouse whenever we start seeing the numbers coming through? CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> We have not seen any impact.
The only – we don't have any more insight than you have from what's being printed in the media.
We have been assured though by Westinghouse that their business has not been affected by that and Westinghouse has a tremendous authority in terms of their ability to meet the commitments on the projects in which we're involved in.
So we've not seen any impact and we don't have any other information to the contrary.
That's helpful.
And a couple of questions on the guidance.
Did I get this right that the tax rate that you expect now is down a little bit from the previous estimate? I think it's pretty consistent.
I said in kind of the 30% to 31% range.
And was it a little bit higher in the past 31% to 33%? It could have been slightly but I think still in that 30% 31% range is a good range for the year.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Yeah I think historically that's where we've landed.
I think we had a little bit of improvement this quarter but generally we've suggested or guided to around 30% or 31%.
Great.
Last question on the share account.
What share account do you imply in your year-end guidance? Is that the second quarter kind of minus 4 million? Yeah.
I think you just have to do that weighted average.
So I think that's a good way to do it.
Just make sure you weighted average the shares that we've indicated we bought in the month of July and then that'd be a good share count to use for the full year.
Excellent.
Thank you.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
That will conclude the Q&amp;A session of today's conference call.
I'll turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Asherman for closing remarks.
CEO &amp; Member-Supervisory Board</strong> Thank you.
In closing let me thank everybody for participating on our call this afternoon.
As we enter into the third quarter 2015 is shaping up to be another strong year for CB&amp;I.
We're optimistic about our markets and prospects and we remain confident in our ability to deliver revenue and earnings growth and convert new awards into long-term quality backlog.
So we appreciate your interest in CB&amp;I and your confidence in our company.
This concludes our call.
Thank you.
Once again we'd like to thank you for your participation on today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.