[Operator Instructions] We'll now take our first question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Tom I was just expecting maybe a little bit more growth from SHL with the recent sales hires in the U.S.
and the better macro environment in Europe how -- I know you gave some comments you'll grow faster this year than next but how do you expect to do that? Maybe some just color on how you expected to ramp through the year trends in Europe with the better hiring and how that new -- these new U.S.
sales hires are ramping? Paul obviously we think the Talent Measurement business there's huge runway in front of it and we're pleased with the consistent global growth that we're now generating.
Yes coming into the year we did face that unusual challenges.
Some revenues pulled forward into 2013 as customers accelerated delivery of some key milestones.
This had an optical double whammy in that we lost revenue from 2014 that actually faced this deeper comp.
It's important to remember that in this business as in the CEB business it's a relatively slower seasonal quarter which makes it harder to grow faster off and even in relatively easier comp.
You see the strong Wallet retention metrics which we're doing a great job with the customers we have.
It's not a quarter where we add a ton of new business.
I'm actually pleased with the work that the team did to both grow through that revenue headwind and build strong sales pipeline.
You can see from our healthy deferred revenue growth we got out of the gates fast in 2014.
For the full year we still expect a higher growth rate than last year and we'll keep expanding margins off the investments we made.
And I'm very pleased with the performance of the new sales hires.
You'll recall it takes probably 2 years for a new sales person to get what we call sort of sales force average productivity.
And most of these folks are still in the role for less than a year.
So given where they are they're at a high level of proficiency already and we'll expect to see them continue to mature across the year.
So all in all we're pleased with the way this business is tracking and there some optics in the first quarter.
Do you want to talk about what the growth rate would be if you...
Yes.
I think if you -- Paul this is Rich.
If you would -- as we mentioned we had about $5 million of revenue pull-forward into fourth quarter from first quarter.
Some of that was in the CEB segment some of that was in the SHL segment.
If you took the SHL portion and applied that to growth in the first quarter you would have had a rate that was closer to 11% than the roughly 7% that we are reporting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Tom just what are your salespeople in Europe in U.K.
saying about sort of receptivity just as European employment returns to growth is that helping a little bit? Yes.
As I said on the call we're seeing the growth rates converge across the regions.
And that's -- I wouldn't say it's easy but I think our European team in particular is poised to generate strong growth throughout the year.
We've seen that now for a couple of quarters.
And as I said they're in a position where we could by the end of the year see growth rates normalize between North America and Europe.
Research Division</strong> On KnowledgeAdvisors one I guess what type of growth rate do you think you could achieve for that business over the next couple of years? And are the things you can do with the cost structure to take cost out or is it more that you hope just to grow the business and scale the costs and therefore it's a matter of time I guess before you can get better profitability out of that business.
Sure.
Tim the KnowledgeAdvisors business was already growing at a higher rate than the core CEB organic growth rates so it's already a solid grower.
There are definitely some administrative leverage points think of them more as money they won't have to spend by being part of our platform that become cost synergies over time.
And it like all of other businesses is a fixed cost business so as we grow it it should grow comfortably in the CEB style margin.
So we'd expect to see healthy growth and margin expansion over the next several years.
And we'd expect the growth rate to be a net add to the CEB overall growth rate though it is a small portion of it.
So growing the big thing is also really important to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 numbers questions I guess.
Rich can you help us -- the client growth if we excluded KnowledgeAdvisors I'm not sure if you gave the client impact of KnowledgeAdvisors.
And then can you talk about the Wallet retention for SHL? I'm never quite sure of what to make of that metric sometimes but it picked up a fair amount this quarter.
So what does that imply to us? So the client growth if you excluded KnowledgeAdvisors would have been about 100 150 basis points lighter than what we reported.
So that definitely helped a little bit in the quarter.
And I'm sorry what was your second question? Research Division</strong> The Wallet retention for SHL.
What's the revenue -- you talked about revenue growth but it was up quite a bit year-over-year at least.
What factors were underlying that I guess? What does that tell us about the activity there? I mean it's certainly a reflection of the cumulative improvement in the growth trajectory that you've seen in SHL over the last year.
You'll recall that growth certainly coming out of the second half of 2012 and into the early part of 2013 was significantly less than what we've been seeing over the last several quarters here.
And so that's really just that cumulative impact you're seeing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just one I guess very detailed -- in this -- in terms of the adjusted earnings that we've been calculating.
We've been using I think it's like a 28% 29% tax rate to adjust the deferred revenue.
Do we still do that with the KnowledgeAdvisors part or the deferred revenue associated with that business given it's U.S.-based? That's going to be a slightly higher tax rate for that adjustment.
It'll be more like in the 40% area.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we could get just a little bit more detail on the KnowledgeAdvisors margin profile and timeframe? I think they're in below company average.
Maybe you can give us some idea like what the margin profile is now what your targets are for the end of this year and heading into next year.
I know you're going to realize some cost synergies and those are going to expand.
But I just want to see sort of how you're thinking about the trajectory for that.
Sure.
I mean in the first quarter it was negative margin just based on kind of getting started.
There's some seasonality in the revenue profile there.
And we expect that to ramp up as we go through the rest of the year.
And so for the full year we expect margins to be slightly positive somewhere in the single digits on a margin basis.
As we move forward into next year as Tom said we expect to be able to have that business benefit from being part of a larger platform.
And as revenue continues to grow further we'd expect margin improvement into next year and beyond.
I hesitate to give you a specific margin target for next year at this stage but obviously we'll keep you posted as we set targets for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then SHL I mean now that we've got the I believe the U.S.
sales force built out what's a good margin profile for that over the long term? I mean will we get a return to sort of the peak margins that we saw before? Or what should we think about for the margin profile for that over the long term? Yes we certainly -- that remains our objective and our target and our expectation that over time we're going to get back into that range again.
Clearly that's not implied in our guidance for this year.
But I think you'll see improvement for the full year this year versus last year and we would expect further improvement again next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And last one from me on the Contract Value site.
There was an uptick even if you exclude some of the acquisition activity.
Are we to take that that's because you're seeing an incremental pickup in Europe? I mean how should we think about that Contract Value uptick? And how should we think about the trajectory for that through the year? Yes I think we feel pretty good with the start we get off to around the world.
I think the story is probably -- certainly the fact that Europe is now part of the overall corporate story and no longer a drag but I wouldn't miss the fact that North America as a whole is off to a solid start and out of the gates fast.
So we've got lots of work ahead but I'm pleased with how fast we got out off the gates.
And I think the story is as much one of breadth as any specific region.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get your perspective of -- in the fourth quarter you had some -- an uptick in client activity as they were getting ready for some planning activities for this year.
What does it felt like through the first 4 months of 2014? Do you feel like customers are lengthening their planning horizons and therefore the kind of things they're engaged in reflect that? Tobey I'd say the biggest shift we've seen is the story is no longer different across regions.
I don't think anyone is predicting booming revenue growth anywhere but I'd say consistently people are now planning for a modest but healthy growth and that's true even in Europe.
And therefore they're making -- they need help making business decisions.
No one is -- if you look at the data what we see is lot of people playing for very modest revenue growth.
And CFOs in particular are desperate to cling to some of the cost gains they've made through the downturn.
So they're looking for a lot of help for us about how do I eke out some revenue growth but not let the cost equation follow too quickly.
So a lot of the questions are about optimization of resources you can imagine that place pretty well into the stories we're architecting for them and with them.
So we're pleased with the pretty consistent global message.
I think it's positive but it's an environment that rewards precision which is the type of environment we like a lot.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How are you prioritizing and allocating your investment dollars this year? And what change might you foresee to that ranking as we look into 2015? I think job one in any given year is always make sure we have a great team in the field to go out and be toe-to-toe with customers impacting their business and opening up new opportunities.
And I don't think that's changed much.
We're certainly very pleased with the hiring and retention success we've enjoyed.
We've got a great team out in the field both seasoned people continuing to grow and mature and new people coming onboard and joining the CEB team.
So that's in any given year job one.
And then job two is continuing to invest to make the products and services ever more relevant that has a component of new product introduction and product evolution and you've heard us talk about some of our larger technology investments to make sure that we're getting ever more tightly tied to member workflows.
I don't think the order of those has changed at all and I'm pleased actually with the progress we're making so far this year on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering you obviously made to need -- well it sounds like need little acquisitions.
Are there any glaring gaps I guess in your solution that you see where we should be thinking about M&amp;A focus for you guys? I think originally after we did the SHL acquisition we indicated that we had more than enough in our hands integrating the acquisition and beginning to get after synergies.
I think importantly that work still continues.
You heard me talk about getting the HIPO in sites we had in Leadership Councils blended into our product for Talent Measurement customers.
So at the same time you -- to Richard's point when you adjust for the revenue moving to Q4 that business is off to a very healthy start this year.
So we're starting to keep our eyes open for new product development more broadly.
That's going to have a flavor of organic product development and it's going to have -- here and there we'll find someone's built an interesting tool solutions that confronts a member need.
I don't think there's a specific gap that we feel exposure on.
We certainly believe that there are lots and lots of parts of the talent management life cycle that are made -- where decisions are made with intuition or gut instinct that we think we can bring some science and rigor to.
The bulk of that will be developing the great assets we have.
But here and there we may spot something that meets a critical member need and go ahead and transact it.
We happen to do it twice this quarter but I think more of the news in the ensuing years will be about combining the great assets we have in new ways.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize if I missed this earlier but on the SHL side.
I mean I guess the -- I think it was 6.9% constant currency came in below your sort of I guess 8% to 13% standard long-term guidance.
So just wondering anymore color around that and if we should still expect that range for the rest of the year.
Probably 3 thoughts.
One is we think of that 8% to 13% as an annualized number.
And certainly in this business there is seasonal effects.
So Q1 is going to be a slow -- slower quarter in that business.
Two as Rich said if you just add back the customer slippage that we saw into Q -- the pull-forwards into Q4 the business grew revenue at a probably an 11 percentage rate.
And then third you saw a healthy deferred revenue growth in that business which implies that the sales team got out and did a great job building the sales pipeline first and then converting that into bookings.
And so across the year I think this business is on the track we expect it to and will be in that zone that we'd like to see it in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last.
All the M&amp;A contribution this quarter was in the CEB line is that correct? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I had been under the impression that the $5 million pull-forward revenue was largely CEB.
Can you give us a split? What was the -- how much was SHL? How much was CEB please? So roughly 60-40 CEB to SHL.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how should we think about the margin impact that that had? Was -- is there a cost a large cost associated with that? Or should we think of it more like that revenue recognition change a couple of years ago where some revenue shifted costs were unchanged and so there was a dramatic plus and minus depending on the quarter impact from margin.
Since a lot of that was based on completing deliveries of some key milestones the cost would have already been incurred by the time we recognized the revenues.
So there wasn't a cost slip into first quarter on a relative basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> So then is it right to say that if we were trying to think about a normalized trend over the last couple of quarters that the fourth quarter margins -- I mean just doing the back of the envelope math it seems like maybe they were overstated that's probably a wrong term but benefited by about 200 basis points? And this quarter was hurt by about 200 basis points.
Am I in the right zip code with the math I'm doing there? I mean certainly that the revenue swing would have benefited margin last quarter and bit of a headwind on margin this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And sorry to keep at this but with the core CEB segment this is the weakest margin in many years going back to the recession really.
And I understand M&amp;A dilution that you referenced the $0.04 of earnings was part of that.
It looks like that's roughly $2.5 million.
It's still even if you add that back would have been lower than it's been in a while.
What other factors were impacting the CEB segment margin? Yes.
I mean I think obviously there's the revenue impact that we talked about.
There's also the impact of foreign exchange.
I talked about how in the CEB segment that was about a 60 basis point headwind on margins in the quarter based on where -- how rates have moved over the course of the year.
And then the other was we talked last quarter about how we have been doing a fair amount of forward hiring in the CEB segment and then Tom and I both referenced how we've had good retention in the first quarter.
And so that sets us up well to achieve our targets for the rest of year but it certainly had an impact on cost coming into the first quarter.
Think about that as the average start day in the quarter of a new CEB hire moving from sometime in February or March to January and picking up a little more cost.
We'd take that 100x.
Yes.
100 because you get them into the training systems they're in sooner you got more stuff happening.
But on -- and it normalizes out over the quarters and some other expenses we would have incurred no longer show up.
But that did put a little bit of a headwind into margin in the quarter for a very healthy reason.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- or is that pretty well spread across the types of employees or is it -- is that -- was it more towards sales or member relations customer service type or...
Yes.
It would have been disproportionately in the member relations and marketing line is where you would have seen that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last one from me.
Do you have a sense at this point how much the KnowledgeAdvisors adds to amortization? Is that the primary reason that the D&amp;A expense within the guidance for the full year went up? Or is there something else going on there? Yes that is the primary reason for the lift in the D&amp;A guidance yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just had a few -- just the KnowledgeAdvisor growth.
How fast was it growing before you bought it? And where do you think the free cash flow potential of the business could go? In other words just getting back to where the margins of that business can that margins of that business approach CEB margins? And is there some operational synergies in terms of products that you can develop together with them so on and so forth? Sure.
KA was growing at a rate that would be accretive to the overall CEB growth rate.
So -- they were a private company so they had not outrun cash.
And as a result there are probably some growth left on the table by having -- brought access to a broader market which is obviously what we bring.
Over time we expect this business wrenched pretty neatly into CEB's style of margins.
I wouldn't expect obviously not this year probably it doesn't get all the way there next year either.
Part of that is we want to maintain an up-selling capacity that is the CEB front engine or its marketing leads great conversations.
There's -- we have enough hands in place to capture that and turn it into revenues.
So we'll get some administrative scaling out of bringing the businesses together.
We probably will keep good effective selling and servicing capacity in that business as it continues to ramp.
But I think it can be certainly accretive to CEB revenue growth rate across the next couple of years.
But also we'll see some margin expansion.
So we're very excited about it.
As to joint product development I was -- that member quote was funny[ph] members were ahead of us on this one -- and they've already said well what if you combine this and that you're going to expect there is a team looking hard at ways in which we can take -- do 2 things really.
One is just there is great data in the business that's immediately valuable to our existing installed base of subscribers.
And we saw that play out very effectively with SHL where suddenly we had whole new categories of data about effectiveness of different constituencies.
You can imagine KnowledgeAdvisors really training intensive communities like sales or IT et cetera.
They're going to be really interested at looking at aggregate data around what works and what doesn't.
So we'll take that play first and then second play will be finding ways to make sure that we blend and link the products in new and powerful ways.
So we're excited about this asset.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And just on some math.
PDRI is it fair to assume it was a little bit less than 1% headwind on top line growth.
That's kind of where I'm trying to parse it but I don't know how much more or less it could be.
I'm talking about on the CEB business in particular.
I mean you'll note that we haven't broken that out specifically.
It's at the point now it's part of the segment and we're managing it like all the other pieces of the segment.
I will say that the quarterly revenue was very much in line this quarter with where it was last quarter.
And so on a year-over-year basis if you go back and look at what we disclosed last year on PDRI revenue you would have seen that that would have been a revenue decline year-over-year.
So obviously that was a bit of headwind deal yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then clearly the quarter -- the numbers in this quarter came out lower than what kind of the street numbers we're looking for.
And I just want you to comment a little bit on -- you guys have an internal expectations you don't give quarterly guidance can you talk about where the numbers came out vis-à-vis what you were thinking yourselves going into the quarter? And then do you feel incrementally better about your ability to achieve the core business excluding acquisitions? Kind of the guidance that you put out last quarter do you feel the same do you feel worse how do you feel vis-à-vis last quarter? I'd say at the top line setting aside 2 factors that we wouldn't have incorporated into our previous guidance.
One would have been FX it would give some sense of how that was likely to trend and the acquisition costs.
I think beyond that we feel very good about the start of the year.
As always the start of the year is really important to us from a bookings perspective a staffing perspective and a momentum perspective and we're -- on those fronts we feel great.
If those things are going well usually the margin start to take care of itself over the course of the year.
So setting aside a few things we had and obviously contemplated in setting the guidance that we laid out for you we're feeling very good about the start of the year.
Research Division</strong> What's been the typical network effect that CEB brings to some of the smaller acquisitions that you've done in the past? I'm thinking about -- if you take Warrillow and TowerGroup a kind of culture et cetera and you look at how much cross-selling there was in those acquisitions say 12 months or 24 months out there? What's been your typical success in the cross-selling into the base? I think historically we've been pleased with the progression.
I think the -- we've learned over time that the immediate impact as you saw with SHL is one of -- there is some transition period et cetera.
So even though we're excited about how fast we're going to allocate so both Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors there is still going to be some -- learning each other's businesses learning the right plug-in points.
But over time as we lift some of the great contents and great messaging out of those businesses and communicate it properly to our customer base you see a good healthy ability to continue to reach new markets and introduce these assets into a much broader customer base.
So overall we've been pleased.
Obviously every time we do it there is lessons from last one.
And you can safely assume we're incorporating those into these next 2.
Research Division</strong> And then I haven't seen -- and maybe you've been making internal investments but I haven't seen M&amp;A investments on the IT or the CIO space for a while.
I'm wondering if that sort of a conscious decision or is it just that the HR space has more attractive M&amp;A targets? I think there's really 2 things going on there Dave.
One is our IT business as we've talked actually last several quarters has been a real area of help for us.
A lot of the work we've done the future of Corporate IT and the changing nature and rules of the Corporate IT organization has been incredibly well received and that's been -- powered greater growth in the business.
Second it would be no -- the talent theme partly because of the changing nature of Corporate IT has been a really important message to CIOs and their teams.
One of the first things we did with the SHL business was build an IT functional talent assessment product.
Our IT Leadership Academy is a great example.
So when we talk about talent we're not -- explicitly about HR we're looking at the special talent within the primary markets we serve.
And IT has been a real hotbed of growth for those products as well as CIOs and their teams are looking at a pretty big recomposition of the types of talent they need to execute.
So when you say talent it means actually talent broadly not just HR.
Obviously HR is a critical primary market for us but it's not the only one for the talent assets.
And IT given the scale the size of your average Corporate IT department tends to be a very healthy consumer of some of these assets we talked about Talent Neuron probably as often being purchased by the CIO as by the Head of HR.
So if you're looking from an M&amp;A standpoint you could almost call that an IT asset because CIOs are the ones thinking about where do I put my next development center? Where do I do quality assurance et cetera? Where should I off-shore where should I on-shore? Where is the next hotbed for key analytics talents? And that's what Talent Neuron does very very well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it that's helpful.
And then a quick one for Rich did I get this right FX impact $0.06 in the quarter and you still expecting $0.08 for the full year? Well it was $0.06 in the quarter that includes both the -- that includes the margin impacts from year-over-year costs as well as the other income remeasurement loss.
When we talk about our 80 basis point impact on the full year recognize that the big change in FX rates occurred pretty much at around the third quarter.
So you're seeing more of the impact earlier in the year than -- assuming rates stay where they are right now than you would see later in the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it's -- I did get that right it's just the timing of the FX notes.
Exactly.
Thank you again for calling and/or logging in to today's event.
Let me just close the call by quickly summarizing my early remarks.
Our Q1 performance has put us on a good path to stay to our financial goals for 2014.
There's obviously much work ahead to sustain our revenue momentum and celebrate returns on our operating and capital investments and advance our strategic position.
But I'm confident that our strong start sets us up for the year end.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many you in our travels over the next few months.
We will be at the BofA and JPMorgan events in May as well as the Blair event in June.
We will also hold our Annual Investor Day on June 18 in our Arlington Virginia offices.
Those of you who've attended in prior years know that we use this event to share even more detail about our strategy and operations including demonstrations of our latest offerings and exposure to our management team.
It's shaping up to be in an engaging day.
And you can contact June Connor if you're interested in attending.
Thank you again for calling in.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!