Good morning and welcome to CEB's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through November 7 by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay passcode is 8672901.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through November 7 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You will also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2014 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its third quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chief Financial Officer Mr.
Richard Lindahl.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thanks Scott and good morning everyone.
This is Rich Lindahl.
I'm the Chief Financial Officer of CEB.
Thank you for calling or logging in to our third quarter 2014 earnings report.
On today's call I'll review our third quarter financial results and discuss our updated 2014 guidance.
Tom Monahan our CEO will then take over to share additional insight on our operations in the quarter provide an update on our 2014 priorities share preliminary thoughts on 2015 and discuss our approach to capital allocation then we will take your questions.
Please turn to Slide 3 of our presentation where we lay out the key takeaways from today's call.
We're pleased to report that our operating results in 2014 continue to unfold along the contours we have previously discussed.
In the quarter we saw solid year-over-year double-digit revenue growth and adjusted EBITDA margin improvement in both of our operating segments.
Earnings were also helped in the quarter by nonoperating FX gains related to a stronger U.S.
dollar.
On the back of this momentum we are sustaining our revenue outlook and raising our profit guidance for the full year and we have raised our expected buyback for the year to approximately $30 million as we continue to ramp into our programmatic approach.
Let's turn to Slide 4 for a summary recap of our results.
Revenue was $229 million in the third quarter of 2014 an increase of 13.5% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 28.8% in the third quarter compared to 24.7% in the third quarter of 2013.
Third quarter 2014 diluted earnings per share was $0.63 compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.16 in the third quarter of 2013.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $1.05 versus $0.86 in the comparable prior year quarter.
Before we go on I'll comment briefly on foreign currencies.
You will recall that our results were affected by both nonoperating FX impacts on our balance sheet accounts and operating FX impacts to revenue and operating expenses.
Of note CEB's net income for the 3 months ended September 30 includes a pretax $6 million nonoperating net foreign currency gain in other income.
This gain benefited adjusted EBITDA margin by about 260 basis points.
By contrast on a constant-currency basis the net impact of foreign currency movement reduced consolidated operating profit by approximately $1 million in the quarter as compared to last year.
Please refer to Page 8 of our earnings press release for more information.
Now let's turn to Slide 5 and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment Contract Value at September 30 2014 was $646.7 million which is up 12.3% year-over-year.
For the SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue was $50.6 million in the third quarter an increase of 13.9% compared to the prior year.
On a constant-currency basis SHL Talent Measurement adjusted revenue growth was 12.9%.
CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 99% at September 30 2014 versus 98% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 106% at September 30 2014 versus 97% last year.
Wallet retention in both segments remains in the normal range and continues to provide a solid platform for overall growth in revenue.
Note also that Wallet retention in the SHL Talent Measurement segment has benefited from easier year-over-year growth comparisons over the past several quarters.
While we remain confident in the future growth prospects of SHL Talent Measurement you will likely see this metric begin to moderate as the comparisons get harder going forward.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 10.5% to 6 847 in the third quarter reflecting the addition of KnowledgeAdvisors as well as continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment Contract Value per member institution was $94 300 at September 30 which is a 1.6% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix impact from both middle market members and strength in large corporate new logo acquisition.
To illustrate this effect CEB segment Contract Value per institution at September 30 2014 was $143 400 for large corporate members and $29 600 in middle market representing annual increases of 0.3% and 7.7% respectively.
Please turn to Slide 6 and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $179.1 million in the third quarter an increase of 12.8% versus the third quarter of 2013.
CEB segment revenue is net of a $1 million deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue increased 16% to $49.9 million in the third quarter of 2014 and SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue includes a $700 000 reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
Consolidated operating expenses were in line with our expectations.
Cost of services increased $7.6 million versus the third quarter of 2013.
This increase reflects greater headcount delivery resources and other variable costs associated with a large customer base as well as product staff that joined us from KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron.
Member relations and marketing expense increased $7.7 million in the third quarter versus the prior year.
This growth reflects additional sales headcount and variable compensation expense across both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments and also includes teams from companies acquired earlier this year.
General and administrative costs in the third quarter were up $4.5 million compared to the prior year.
This increase reflects certain costs from the acquired companies as well as some increased headcount and the comparative impact of last year's reclassification of incentive expense to cost of services and member relations and marketing.
Acquisition-related costs of $400 000 in the third quarter were driven primarily by integration costs related to KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron.
Interest income and other was $5.9 million in the third quarter of 2014 as compared to net expense of $2.1 million in the third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year change was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency.
The significant strengthening by September 30 of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound was the main driver of these nonoperating net FX gains that were mostly related to the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries.
Interest expense in the third quarter of 2014 was $4.6 million compared to $5 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin in the third quarter was 28.8% versus 24.7% in the third quarter of 2013 reflecting the benefit of net nonoperating foreign currency gains as well as the year-over-year progression in both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments that we discussed on our last earnings call.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 31.3% reflecting the impact of foreign exchange rate differences including a $3.8 million net nonoperating FX gain as well as recent acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA margin also benefited from strong revenue growth and expense scaling and was offset by about 40 basis points of operating currency headwind.
Accordingly on a constant-currency basis that normalizes both periods for these factors CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 29.6% in the third quarter of 2014 versus 29% in the third quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 20.1% which included a net nonoperating foreign currency gain in the quarter of $2.2 million or approximately 430 basis points.
Margins in this segment have begun to normalize as revenue growth stays in the target range and operating expense grows -- growth slows.
The impact of FX rates on operating profit also reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 45 basis points in this segment.
And so on a constant-currency basis that normalizes both periods for these factors SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 16.2% in the third quarter of 2014 versus 15.3% in the third quarter of 2013.
Depreciation and amortization in the third quarter was $16.7 million an increase of $1.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year change is largely due to increased amortization from KnowledgeAdvisors offset by reduced amortization of PDRI intangible assets.
The provision for income taxes was $18 million in the third quarter.
As previously discussed the book versus tax treatment of last quarter's impairment loss is driving a higher effective tax rate for the full year.
We are normalizing out this impact on adjusted net income through each of the second third and fourth quarters of this year.
Please refer to Footnote 2 on Page 13 of our earnings press release for more information.
Please turn to Slide 7 for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $87 million of cash at September 30 and the current portion of deferred revenue was $384.5 million at September 30.
As compared to the prior year CEB segment deferred revenue increased 8.7% to $319.2 million a positive leading indicator for CEB segment revenue.
We ended the quarter with $508.1 million of total debt in the balance sheet and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.9x.
We also maintain access to additional liquidity via the $192 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
For the first 9 months of 2014 cash flows from operations were $117.9 million consistent with typical seasonal patterns and an increase of 24.1% compared to the first 9 months of 2013 driven by cash tax timing favorability growth in adjusted EBITDA and continued strong collections.
During the third quarter we spent $7.5 million on capital expenditures as we neared completion of several 2014 technology initiatives including the new TalentCentral platform.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business and we paid $8.8 million in dividends in the third quarter.
We also repurchased $11.5 million of stock during the third quarter and now have approximately $31 million of authorization remaining under the stock repurchase plan that expires on December 31 2014.
Based on our programmatic approach to purchases we now currently anticipate the full year 2014 buyback amount will be approximately $30 million.
Please turn to Slide 8 and we'll move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the safe harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and are based on preliminary assumptions which are subject to change over time.
Based on current leading indicators and while contemplating various risks and opportunities we continue to track largely in line with our prior outlook ranges.
With the majority of the year behind us we have good visibility on full year performance and are updating our guidance accordingly.
We now expect CEB's full year 2014 adjusted revenue to be between $915 million and $925 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $6 million this year.
So the GAAP revenue outlook is now $909 million to $919 million.
Our current visibility leads us to expect CEB segment top line to grow in the low double digits for the year as healthy growth in the legacy CEB business is complemented by the addition of Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors while offset to some degree by continued headwinds in government markets.
We continue to expect that SHL Talent Measurement will deliver strong full year growth in 2014 on a constant-currency basis.
However it's also important to remember that the year-over-year growth comparison is tougher in the fourth quarter of the year.
Going one click further on revenue we expect typical seasonal trends and year-to-date bookings growth to produce sequential quarterly increases in both the CEB and SHL Talent Measurement segments.
While year-over-year growth is expected to be solid in both segments a tougher prior year comparison and a return to normal seasonality are likely to produce mid- to high single-digit growth at SHL Talent Measurement.
On the expense side we expect seasonality to drive modest sequential cost increases in both segments.
Accordingly after normalizing for the third quarter nonoperating FX gains we expect sequential improvements in both quarterly consolidated margins and earnings in the fourth quarter.
Assuming no further swings in FX we now expect full year adjusted EBITDA margin of between 24.75% and 25.25%.
This outlook reflects both the sequential ramp we articulated on our last earnings call and the year-to-date impact of nonoperating FX gains.
We thus expect the fourth quarter to continue the third quarter trend toward higher consolidated margins in the second half of 2014 driven by typical seasonal improvement in the CEB segment greater contribution from recent acquisitions and improved operating leverage in the SHL Talent Measurement segment.
Depreciation and amortization in 2014 is now expected to be between $69 million and $71 million.
This increase over 2013 is driven by amortization of newly acquired intangibles higher capital expenditures and the completion of several multiyear projects.
Capital expenditures in 2014 are anticipated to be approximately $35 million which is consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
For the full year we expect acquisition-related costs of approximately $3 million for transaction expenses and other integration costs.
As discussed last quarter for book purposes the tax treatment of the goodwill portion of the PDRI impairment loss will drive a higher effective tax rate on a fully reported GAAP basis than previously targeted for the year.
As a result the 2014 tax rate is currently estimated to be approximately 48% excluding additional discrete items such as foreign currency gains or losses that are recognized as incurred.
Incorporating all of these factors we are now raising our outlook for 2014 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.25 to $3.45.
This guidance reflects solid revenue growth improving constant-currency adjusted EBITDA margin modest contribution from KnowledgeAdvisors and lower interest costs all somewhat offset by an increase in depreciation expense.
Importantly this earnings outlook assumes that currencies remain relatively stable through the end of 2014 As you've seen through the third quarter we are continuing to produce strong cash generation in 2014 and we expect that the ratio of cash flows from operations to adjusted net income will remain at a healthy multiple consistent with historical patterns.
Finally you will note that throughout my comments today I have highlighted the impact on our reported results of nonoperating net foreign currency gains and losses.
Given that these noncash gains and losses do not affect the ongoing operating profile of our business beginning in 2015 we are planning to change our non-GAAP metric definitions to exclude these items consistent with the approach we've seen at other companies.
We will provide additional detail on this definitional change when we share our 2015 outlook in February.
That concludes the financial summary.
Tom will provide some additional thoughts on our early views on 2015 and approach to capital allocation in a few minutes.
I'll now turn the call over to him to share more color on our operations and growth strategies.
Thanks Rich.
Let me add my welcome to everyone who's joined for today's call.
We appreciate the opportunity to keep you updated on the CEB story.
I'll use my remarks to provide additional perspective on our performance to date and to update you on our multi-year priorities for delivering growth and impact.
In summary we saw solid performance in all of our major markets in the third quarter.
Our momentum on both the revenue and profit lines allows us to raise our EPS projections for the year and gives us great confidence as we enter our vital Q4 selling season.
We also continue to make steady progress on the longer-term strategic priorities that support continued growth in the years ahead.
I'm pleased with our achievements to date and delighted with the engagement and alignment of our teams globally.
Let me start with an overview of our performance across markets.
Please turn to Slide 9.
Our third quarter results reflect healthy organic growth across all major areas of our business.
Obviously we're pleased to see growth and strong economics coming from so many different areas.
Let me provide some color on each market starting with the CEB segment.
In North America our largest and oldest market we saw continued strength in both our large enterprise and middle market sectors.
With strong teams and offerings in place we see ample opportunity to deepen our relationships with existing customers even as we continue to add great new names to the CEB client roster.
In particular you saw very strong growth in new member count in the quarter reflecting a successful focus on this in large enterprise and middle markets.
As many of you know these customers typically come in first with a single-membership subscription and add more memberships and premium services across time and thus our Contract Value growth is slightly heavier on memberships than on premium services which also have more variable delivery and revenue recognition patterns.
The strength in new members tends to damp down the average customer spend a bit and can create some noise in the deferred revenue implied bookings numbers but we're obviously very happy with this result.
With a strong subscription Contract Value and solid bookings growth we remain well set up to deliver on our near- and medium-term top line targets.
Elsewhere in the world we saw all of our markets grow at a robust organic pace.
This global performance is a continuation of trends we've observed for several quarters now where our international markets are now consistently growing at or near the corporate average.
We're obviously pleased that despite some macro noise in Europe we continue to perform very well.
This success reinforces the fact that even in very low growth environments executives need help in making decisions about people customers technology and risk and our resources and tools are cost-effective support for these decisions.
Our SHL Talent Measurement segment also continued to gather momentum.
We saw revenue accelerate and we're on track to achieve our goals of an adjusted EBITDA margin in the low 20s by 2016.
Our revenue growth in this segment represents good progress but it's obviously helped also by a weaker year ago comp.
As Rich said this trend will reverse a bit in Q4 given customer pull forwards during this period in 2013.
From our vantage point these minor quarter-to-quarter variations in growth rate are far less important than the overall momentum now visible in the business.
We look at a multi-quarter trajectory that smooths out small quarterly variations in service activity and here you can see we are now in a very healthy place.
Smoothing out quarter-to-quarter timing issues this business is now comfortably and consistently growing our target organic growth range.
Obviously currency and/or customer timing can move any individual quarter around but we are very comfortable with the overall performance picture and continued sales pipeline development.
More broadly I'm also pleased that our momentum in the top line is translating into a very healthy margin growth at the firm level.
While the reported margin is obviously exaggerated a bit by currency movements the underlying organic margin expansion is also a good news story.
As we have said from the beginning of the year we expected the quarterly progression on margins to be a little different than normal but we had high confidence in meeting our original targets and we're set up to sustain progress in 2015.
You can see from this quarter's results that the progression year-to-date has followed the seasonal patterns we outlined and we now have good visibility into continued margin expansion next year.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong revenue and margin performance enabled us to accelerate execution on our capital management priorities.
As we said at the outset of the year our first priority is we're raising the dividend and arriving at our target leverage zone.
Due to strong performance we have now arrived comfortably within our target.
With cash flow remaining strong we've been able to focus on stock repurchase as an additional means of deploying capital.
As we discussed in the Q2 call as you can see in the Q3 result we are ramping into a healthy programmatic approach to buybacks.
As of September 30 we had approximately $30 million left on our current authorization which gives us enough room to continue executing our strategy through year-end.
We are committed to returning capital to our shareholders as part of our business planning for 2015 and beyond.
Given that we are now within our target leverage range our board will of course consider how best to deploy the cash flow that this business is on course to generate.
In view of the strength of our business and our solid financial foundation it's safe to say that we'll be in a position to increase the percentage of free cash flow that we'll pay out over the next year.
In summary our performance thus far in 2014 keeps us on track to achieve our financial objectives for the year.
We have much work ahead to capitalize on our market opportunity but our success to date gives us confidence that we will achieve our goals.
In addition to our in-year financial plan we've also made substantial headwind in key multi-year strategic objectives enabling us to sustain our track record of growth and profit.
As a reminder we have 4 key areas of focus: first continuing to reinvent the development and delivery of management insight; second leading the analytic transformation of talent management; third expanding the frontier of our brand and impact; and fourth laying the foundation for future growth.
If you turn to Slide 10 I'll share an update on our first priority management insight.
Our research follows a unique operating model by tapping the collective experience in workflows of the world's great companies.
We build data assets insights and resources that transform performance and we provide this superior support at a fraction of the cost of other sources of advice.
Our powerful insights into corporate performance are foundational to creating and delivering business value for our customers.
It's obviously a perennial area of focus for our teams and we've introduced great new work across 2014 in all of our practice areas.
One recent example comes from our legal risk and compliance practice.
As a reminder we serve thousands of legal audit risk management and compliance and ethics leaders equipping them to decrease risk drive team productivity and ultimately save time and money.
Our research notes that while increased investments in risk management help mitigate risks they can also create unintended drags on execution particularly since the various departments responsible for risk can often put competing and redundant processes in place in operating units.
The cost of this drag is real.
A majority of corporate strategist's sites slow decision-making is the primary impediment to growth not lack of capital or lack of growth opportunities.
In fact this inaction can cause companies almost half their potential growth rate as you can see from the right-hand side of this slide.
Our research pinpoints the sources of this organizational drag and equips risk leaders with strategies to streamline risk management avoid redundant activity and ultimately boost growth.
By embracing these and other approaches organizations can attain higher growth rates by appropriately managing risk and accelerating their decision-making.
As you might imagine our teams are discussing these insights with members and prospective members and we are pleased with the immediate impact of member outcomes and performance that this work is already creating.
We're also making good progress to further personalize the member experience.
We're currently working on migrating our member digital channels to better support more tailored delivery of our content better support of a variety of mobile devices and more direct links to critical workflows.
We know that usage drives impact which leads to renewal and cross-selling opportunities.
This platform will be a powerful resource for increasing member usage of our great resources.
Please turn to Slide 11 for an update on our second priority leading the analytic transformation of talent management.
Our insight into the drivers of corporate performance points to why talent management is such a rich market opportunity.
As we shared at our Investor Day talent is the direct cause for a key explanatory variable in the majority of corporate growth stalls and despite increasing focus of corporate boards and leadership teams on talent issues companies often manage this vital resource through intuition and habit.
That is why we see such opportunity to apply intelligence to talent management by providing easy-to-use cost-effective tools and solutions.
We've been building a suite of offerings to support the opportunity both by growing our existing lines of business and by developing new tools.
Let me share a few highlights from the quarter.
First as I discussed earlier the SHL Talent Measurement business continues to grow at a healthy rate.
During the quarter we also launched our new TalentCentral platform to customers.
This is the next generation interface for our selection and assessment offerings.
The data we collect and visualize through this platform not only provides direct benefits to our customers but gives CEB a massive asset to leverage for future insight and innovation.
Second we completed the rebranding of KnowledgeAdvisors to align with our broader corporate brand.
Now known as Metrics that Matter from CEB the business is now fully integrated into our talent management suite of offerings.
Third we continue to see great potential to combine individual talent management assets in new ways to build even more powerful solutions that are targeted at customer needs.
One great example is this year's launch of a new solution to help companies assess develop and benchmark high-potential employees or as they're known HIPOs.
To the right of the slide you see that our high-potential solution combines our unique research into HIPO attributes and behaviors with our strong assessment technologies.
Clients has used -- have used this powerful new solution to improve succession management avoid needless external hiring and improve retention.
Our clients have been vocal about the ROI of using this and other talent mobility offerings.
One client remarked "We're able to have a very rich and frank discussion on bench strength and gaps in our leadership team." Another client shared that "CEB's solutions helped give us insight into our leadership talent and prepare the most promising individuals for development into future leadership roles." Overall we're very pleased with our progress to date in building high-impact support for key talent management workflows.
Please turn to Slide 12 for an update on our third priority expanding the frontier of our brand and impact.
Building a clear compelling story about CEB in all of our markets creates demand for our offerings and supports our customers as they bring our solutions into executive suites and boardrooms.
We seek to raise our brand visibility through a variety of means.
First and foremost we work to consistently deliver surplus business value to our existing members and clients.
They're our strongest advocates and serving them well is the single biggest lever for advancing our brand.
In the quarter you saw us continue to augment this core effort with major thought leadership and PR pieces in larger-scale member and client events that bring functional communities together to discuss pressing issues.
In fact in just the past few weeks we hosted major summits for IT and HR executive as well as our annual Sales and Marketing conference in Las Vegas which gathered nearly 1 000 commercial leaders from across industries.
This set a high watermark for our internally sponsored events and has us looking forward to a similarly high-profile and high-impact event for HR members next year.
We're also deeply focused on making sure that every interaction with our members becomes a platform for demonstrating a broader set of solutions.
As a reminder our average customer buys less than 1/10 of what our 100 largest customers buy and less than 1/50 of what they could buy.
In simple terms the company could be 5 to 10x its size without any new customers or products.
We are attacking this massive opportunity both through great marketing and event strategies and much tighter integration of sales and service teams across the business.
In the quarter we took some additional steps to accelerate cross-sales and referrals.
In a number of key markets globally we are now aligning all sales and service teams along with professional services and advisory resources from every CEB business under a single market leader.
We see huge opportunity from having a clear point of accountability for conveying the breadth of what we can do to the market and from generating quickly spotting and executing on the richest possible cross-sale leads.
Given the technical nature of our products and variances in sales cycle and deal size this means we'll always have high-performing salespeople with deep individual technical specialties and committed specific focus areas but aligning these teams at the market level will ensure powerful messages and creative opportunities for delivering more robust solutions that will in turn lead to bigger deals and stronger lead flow.
Please turn to Slide 13 for an update on our fourth priority laying the foundation for future growth.
Great people and great technology are critical to our continued success.
On the people front we have a great team in place and I'm energized by their level of engagement as we enter the final months of the year.
As I have shared on prior calls our perennial goal is building a world-class CEB team.
This is a critical time of the year for talent planning.
As you can see on the right we use our own tools to develop our own talent management strategy.
We're confident we have the structures and approaches in place to drive strong engagement alignment and retention.
On the technology front in addition to the member- and client-focused platforms I mentioned we continue to invest in technologies that support and protect our operations as well as enhancing the productivity and interconnectivity of our teams.
Let me stop there and summarize my remarks on Slide 14.
Our performance thus far in 2014 keeps us on track to achieve our financial objectives for the year.
We have much work ahead to capitalize on our market opportunity and advance our strategic position but our success to date gives us confidence that we will achieve our goals for 2014.
Equally important we are beginning to set ourselves up for continued growth and success in 2015.
We've just begun the planning process and much can change in the outside world but our success and momentum in 2014 have put us in a position of strength as we look ahead to next year.
Let me close by commenting very briefly on our preliminary views on 2015.
As always our path for next year will be strongly influenced by the outcome of the important fourth quarter selling season but based on our current sales and bookings trends we believe we are setting up well for continued top and bottom line growth in the year ahead.
Accordingly we are working toward an operating plan that again contemplates organic growth near the midpoint of our long-term 8% to 13% revenue guidance range and delivers margin expansion at the high end of our 25 to 50 basis-point target range.
We'll obviously refine our views and share a more detailed picture of both our operating objectives and capital return strategies in the Q4 call and we believe that the great work of our team this year sets us up well as we enter the next.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
First just can you talk about how the North American SHL sales force is seasoning with the acceleration we saw into the third quarter.
Is that what we're seeing? Or is there something else? I've got one quick follow-up on SHL.
Sure.
Paul yes as we said we made 3 categories of investment in the business: first some infrastructure upgrades; second additional support for our strongest salespeople; and finally additional sales capacity.
The first 2 flowed into business already are supporting consistent scaling and long-term growth and you could see some impact on Wallet retention that getting deeper in with our existing customers was probably as much a function of both new sales headcount and new sales support resources.
I think the sales hires are progressing nicely really in every market.
It's not just North America.
So we're seeing success broadly and you can -- you're starting to see their impact on the top line but they're still growing into their full capacity I'd expect you to see some benefits across the next year as they continue to mature.
Research Division</strong> And just for those hires you made at the back half of last year what -- where are we? Are they 50%? Are they 30%? Are they 70% of where they can -- where you think they can get to? Our experience is it takes really until the second full year for a salesperson to reach what I'd call average productivity and that's true in the SHL business it's true in the CEB business and beyond that you want to keep growing their productivity.
So I think you're seeing folks come online.
They're -- some are ahead of schedule.
Some are right on schedule but we're very pleased with the overall performance of the class.
But there's some additional room to go to get the full maturity and there always will be as you bring new salespeople on.
And that's a pretty consistent pattern.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Tom the EEOC is looking into some of these online personality tests.
It's kind of investigating a couple who they think are just using it to get around various rules.
Can you just talk about that? Has that become an issue? Or is that just -- where do you -- have you seen those articles? And what's your view on it? Yes.
Our view is anything that forces people to worry about the quality of the science depth and quality of the data and richness of experience and longitude of impact here helps us.
This is -- obviously we've been at this for a while.
We have a tremendous degree of scientific validity.
We're the world's largest civilian employer of industrial organizational psychologists.
We have a lot of science behind what we do and as a result a lot of validity in what we do and I think to the extent that clients are made aware that quality and accuracy matters that helps our business quite a bit.
So we're -- we stand by the quality of our solutions and I think that those storylines within the broader context of people wanting to bring more precision in managing talent actually help the industry leader which is us.
And we'll take our next question from Joseph Foresi with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if we could just get some goalposts for what we think SHL could do over the long term.
I know it moderates in 4Q because we've got some tough comparisons but the growth rate was good.
The margins are improving.
How do we think about margin expansion and growth rates as we head into '15? And I know you've sort of raised the margin profile based on some positive SHL contribution next year but I wanted to get an idea.
Yes.
I think from a goalpost perspective our goal is to get this business comfortably growing on a sustainable basis in our 8% to 13% target growth range.
As I said in my remarks I think we're there.
This business is now consistently growing in that range and look back over the last year it's actually in the top half of that range.
Now it can and will bounce around a little bit but being consistently in that range for a very long time was the goal of our investment in the business.
And now that we're there we're starting to scale into the investments.
As we said we'd expect to be in the low 20s from an EBITDA margin perspective in 2016.
We should take a good step forward on that in 2015.
Over time like with the CEB business the long-term margin profile should be broadly comparable with the rest of our businesses and every year we'll have to go out and balance how much immediate-term opportunity we want to access by making investments in the business while delivering margin expansion.
We're in a bit of a strange cycle here but it will start to behave much more like a -- the rest of our businesses over time.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to think about what the contribution was in North America and what you expect from those salespeople? Are there any rough stats that we can get around that? The good news for the SHL business is the performance was strong globally.
So certainly North America was part of that.
We saw a great -- particularly in the U.S.A.
we saw a particularly great strength there but it was a strong performance on a global basis.
All the regions contributed very nicely to a healthy outcome and there's a -- and remember some of the sales resource has flowed in outside the U.S.
too.
So those folks are also coming online and we're seeing good impact.
So I was pleased not only with the United States but more broadly with the global performance of the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last one from me.
I know you talked about maybe public sector being headwinds.
Perhaps you could lay out for us what you think is still left as -- for headwinds in the business including FX and what you think those impacts might be? Yes.
I mean I think the -- overall the government business there's not a whole lot of change there which is that it remains certainly an opportunity for future growth but in the near term it's -- the opportunity is very modest there.
So there's not a whole lot of new news on that front.
As it relates to currency there is certainly a fair amount of volatility in currencies that we've seen particularly in the last quarter or so.
So the guidance we've put out there assumes that we stay in about the same place we're at right now which we've -- currencies have been fairly stable for the last month or so.
Your guess is as good as mine what will happen in the next 2 months but that's certainly going to be something that's going to have an impact.
But overall we think the much larger impacts are going to be the continued growth on the top line and the continued expansion of margins along the lines that we had discussed previously.
And we'll take our next question from Tim McHugh with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the average Contract Value per large institution being up only very slightly I guess -- I know you talked about customer growth but maybe when you dig below the data has there been a softening in -- I guess in the pace of cross-sell amongst large corporates? And is there anything you can point to that kind of explains the story behind that? Yes.
Tim the short answer is no there actually hasn't been our existing customers continue to grow at a healthy rate.
When you add -- as you know when we add a new customer middle market large enterprise they tend to buy a thing or maybe a little more than a thing and so strength there will just average down the number unfortunately it's just math.
But we continue to see very healthy growth in our larger accounts as they continue to expand their usage of the product set.
So some of that will flow through the CEB segment some will flow through the SHL segment.
So -- but overall that's just a math effective strong new customer growth in both large enterprise and middle market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Wallet retention with SHL I know you talked about it a little bit but the spike up relative to what we've been seeing was pretty significant I guess.
So can you elaborate a little more on I guess the activity underlying that? Was that pretty broad-based? Was it a few customers existing customers? Is that a sign of I guess employment growth at your existing customers? I guess what's behind that? Yes.
I'd say it's more just a reflection of investment in the business and great execution by the teams.
There wasn't a single customer or a single dynamic.
As we've said of our 3 categories in investment some was infrastructure some was support for the existing sales team and some was new sales headcount.
As you're growing a business the first place you go is to your best customers to find new opportunities.
This business isn't unlike any of our other businesses and the adopt -- the average customer has adopted only a portion of what they can buy from us and with some additional resource and the ability to go scout out additional potential buyers additional potential use cases becomes a very attractive near-term driver of growth.
There's also some -- the year-ago comp was weaker and as the business grows you're going to see that metric be at the high end of ranges.
I think over time you'll see this normalize a little bit it's the same effect we see in CEB which is strong new customer growth.
They start with a little bit less and they grow over time but certainly I think it just reflects great execution by the teams in finding new ways to get people to use our resources within existing clients.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly I apologize if I missed it but the preliminary comment on '15 in terms of the margin improvement can you talk about what type of I guess SHL versus the legacy CEB business and how your preliminary thoughts for 2015 in terms of the margins look right now I guess? Yes.
Tim we had -- back at the Investor Day we talked about our long-term range being 25 to 50 basis points and that over the next year or 2 we would expect actually to trend toward the higher end of that range.
And so that's still our expectation as we're looking into 2015.
I think you would continue to see sort of a consistent steady margin improvement that we've historically seen in the CEB segment.
And in the SHL segment it should be a little bit stronger than that just given -- as we ramp towards that kind of EBITDA margin in the low 20s by 2016.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I noticed in the press release versus the last couple you did not give us the ability to look at an organic Contract Value or deferred revenue growth excluding KnowledgeAdvisors Talent Neuron and PDRI.
I wondered if you'd be willing to give us those numbers or at least directionally.
And I'd say from the reported numbers it did look like there was a bit of deceleration in both Contract Value and particularly deferred revenue which appears to be growing at least 1 point or maybe more than that slower than what you're doing on revenue.
I guess any -- is that the right way to interpret it? And any comment on one or both of those would be great.
Gary I think the -- we stopped breaking out PDRI a couple of quarters ago and KnowledgeAdvisors and Talent Neuron have now been fully integrated into the CEB product set even linked to our core operating platforms and sales teams.
So in many respects if they're sold through our channels et cetera it didn't make sense to keep breaking them out.
So they're not truly independent businesses anymore.
I think it's safe to say that they're on track to achieve the original objectives we set for the year.
So if you think about where we began the year and the objectives we set they're tracking very comfortably within our original objectives.
The deferred revenue as we've talked about new customers come on they tend to buy subscriptions and don't tend to average up on premium services until they're a little more mature.
So if you think about premium services having a little more variability in delivery timing a little more variability in delivery cost that can create some optical issues with the deferred revenue number.
Overall we're very pleased with consistently great bookings growth and obviously we'll always take a subscription over any other form of services revenue we can get.
So we're very pleased with the contours of how we came in but you will see some -- a little bit of noise in the deferred revenue as a result.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the growth on a year-over-year basis in cost to both segments slowed as you predicted that it would but I wondered were there any timing issues within that any costs that were maybe delayed in the quarter? Or was it pretty much as you -- I know FX moved things around but pretty much as you expected outside of an FX impact.
Yes Gary.
There really weren't any major things that kind of swung expenses from 1 quarter to the next.
It was very much in line with what we had expected and as we indicated we would expect some seasonal increases in some of these line items going into the fourth quarter.
That's going to flow in both segments actually but given the stronger overall scaling of the business we expect margins to still improve as we go from third to fourth quarter.
And that's on a constant-currency basis I should say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And I guess that leads to the next question which is if FX rates continue to stay relatively stable as they have in recent weeks can you give us any sense of what the noncash FX gain or loss would look like for the fourth quarter and what impact FX would have on margins of the segments? I know it was a drag in the first half and then a benefit this quarter.
Is it correct to assume that it would become a more significant drag on both of those in the fourth quarter? Yes.
Well let's take them separately.
So the nonoperating FX gains and losses are driven by the quarter-end mark-to-market if you will on some of the balance sheet accounts at mostly our foreign subsidiaries.
So to the extent that rates don't move at all there should essentially be no impact on a nonoperating FX basis.
So it really just depends on what rates do as of this point they're pretty stable or pretty flat to where they were at the end of the third quarter.
So if we were doing it today chances are there'd be effectively a 0 nonoperating FX gain for the quarter.
On the operating side the rates that affect revenues and then the other operating expenses on a constant-currency basis some of the rates are lower now than they were a year ago.
Some of them are a little bit higher.
So there's -- it's kind of a multivariable equation with a lots of puts and takes.
It's difficult to predict with certainty what's going to happen.
As we sit here today I don't expect to be -- it to be a major headwind.
It could possibly be a small help but we really need to just see how things play out as we go through the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just thinking about the preliminary 2015 comments and adjusting out those nonoperating gains and losses I think that makes a lot of sense.
But those are below-the-line items so that will not impact margins? I'm just trying to think if we take the margins that we're forecasting for this year is there any reason that we wouldn't -- other than if FX moves a lot more that we wouldn't see that 25 to 50 or higher end of that actually show up versus what your reported number for this year is? I mean if you take the nonoperating impacts on margins out of the equation altogether then there certainly -- we're still predicting and forecasting that we're going to have that kind of higher end of the 25 to 50 basis-point margin improvement on a constant-currency basis.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Rich just to start was the EPS guidance range increased beyond the positive impact from currency for the year? The -- it might have improved a little bit.
There was a little bit of benefit in the tax rate.
The tax rate improved both on some -- to some degree on currencies and then there were a couple other items that moved it favorably but otherwise it's largely in line with what we were talking about before.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> All right.
So basically the message there is we're tracking against what we said we're going to do right.
That's the way we should look at this.
That's exactly right.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Tom how many great sales guys have you hired this year? And where are we in terms of sales additions in both CEB and SHL? We're entering the season where we'd start to ramp next year's teams in place.
I think across the 2 segments you'd probably see a slightly different pattern in that if you think about what we did in SHL was try to pull forward a couple of years' worth of sales force growth so we could do onboarding et cetera and get the investment to the business quickly.
But over the long -- so in the near-term you probably won't see sales force headcount growth in that business match revenue growth as the teams we have in place get more productive.
Over time you'd expect that to be the case that we'd expect to see sales force headcount growth be in the 8% to 13% annualized growth range that powers revenue in both segments.
I think in the near term that's exactly where we are in CEB probably a little bit under that in SHL.
Obviously given that the business now has some momentum and we're taking -- we're making sure we -- where we've got uncovered opportunity we're putting people in place and getting them to work.
But over the long term sales headcount will track very closely with organic revenue growth because that is probably the most variable cost in our business.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So would you say occasionally when you guys are doing well and you definitely take the advantage of the opportunity to get ahead of next year's hiring or get people in earlier so you can get them effective earlier would -- do you anticipate any of that happening in the fourth Q of this year maybe on the CEB segment? Sure.
We're always doing forward hiring.
So send resumes to my attention.
The -- and the net effect is we've been able to do that the past couple of years.
So we're lapping consistent number as opposed to it being a pull forward in a way that it should look funky on an annualized basis but we're -- this is a great time of year for us to be aggressively and that way people -- if you think about it very simply it's are you getting 12 months of productivity out of someone 11 or 10? And the sooner we hire them now the more of next year we get from a productivity-ramp perspective.
So absolutely we're being -- on a global basis looking for great talent right now and trying to get folks on board so they can start the year fast.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a math question I guess.
I don't have -- we don't have the detail to break out the revenue in CEB to try and get a bookings number I'd like to calculate.
Which -- were the bookings for the CEB segment in line with organic Contract Value growth a little bit higher? Because I'm calculating about 9% organic Contract Value growth and I was just wondering if the bookings have tended to be a little bit above that.
And where are we this quarter? Yes I would say the -- both the total bookings growth -- the total bookings growth is very much in line with Contract Value growth and then the organic piece would be also in line with the organic Contract Value growth.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just given what the stock movements in the quarter I understand having a program to rebuy stock but -- should we think that in times when the stock dips that you guys will be ready to go in there and repurchase more stock outside of that program? Certainly the programmatic approach we have is one that is responsive to price changes to a degree obviously we're not going to get into a lot of detail about the exact parameters of that.
But the more important philosophy is that we're taking a steady approach to repurchasing stock that's reflected in the year-to-date activity and our updated expectation for the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of free cash flow where is most of it? Is there a weighting of free cash regeneration like 70% U.S.
30% international along with the kind of revenue breakdown? Or how should we think of that? Yes.
There's certainly -- the free cash flow is obviously going to be generated more in line with the overall sizes of the segments and the overall size of the business in any given area.
That's probably the bigger indicator of how it gets allocated.
There's a number of expenses that are driven by -- in the U.S.
and so that can have an impact on U.S.
versus foreign cash balances.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> What I'm trying to get at is just in terms of the amount of cash that will be available on an ongoing basis that you generate for kind of deployment internally for either share repurchases or for dividends.
So I think of a certain percentage of the free cash flow is primarily invested overseas.
Or at least even if you haven't deemed it that way are you thinking of it that way? I mean certainly that is a factor in terms of what's available.
Having said that certainly we'll provide additional details in terms of how we're thinking about how much free cash flow should be available for stock repurchases and dividend payments as Tom said when we provide our 2015 guidance.
We'll take our next question from Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to explore the cash flow a little bit more.
You indicated a greater propensity to return more cash to shareholders perhaps through repurchase next year's.
Is that reflective of what you're seeing in the marketplace in terms of acquisitions? Or is it an internally generated change and kind of just a shift in philosophy? Okay.
Tobey we'll always continue to evaluate potential acquisitions for a strategic fit linkage to member and client recurring workflows and obviously economic characteristics and relative valuation.
I don't think our statements on capital allocation are intended to be a view on the M&amp;A market just the fact that given current business performance the business generates a lot of cash.
Current capital market conditions give us the flexibility to do both if a great opportunity shows up that both return cash to shareholders and execute anything we deem strategically important and accretive from a valuation perspective.
So it's not a -- our commitment to capital distribution is not a statement on M&amp;A.
In general historically if you look back there aren't that many CEB-quality businesses in the world.
So we've really always liked a focus on organic product development as a key driver of growth and innovation anyway.
But absolutely when great assets appear we will be in a position if valuations are right to act on them.
We don't see them as mutually exclusive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With that said do you -- with what you see in terms of your pipeline in conversations of -- for potential acquisitions? Do you -- are there in fact fewer CEB-quality targets out there and maybe the next year or 2 will be a little bit more organic than it has been over the last couple of years? Yes.
What I'd say is the range of internal capabilities we now have via things like Talent Neuron Metrics that Matter and obviously the broad suite of capabilities that SHL has plus CEB's organic data management and educational capabilities give us a lot of tools to create exciting new products and there's no particular capability gap at this point that we say "Gee we got to fill that.
Otherwise we're" -- so we have -- I'd just say on balance we like the toys in our toy box and we're kind of excited to build new things using what we've got.
You saw that with our conversation about the HIPO solution which took a CEB data set CEB analysis combined it with some of our assessment technologies and kind of mixed it in a powerful new way.
So I think -- I wouldn't say there are fewer CEB-quality businesses but if you think about the capacity of our teams to do things they're very busy on a lot of organic new product development activity right now.
And we'd have to be highly convinced if there was an exciting acquisition opportunity to distract some of that team to integrate a new acquisition.
Probably it's as much an internal capacity excitement about what we've got as it is an external availability issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question just has to do with the government market and I know it's a real small slice of the business but just curious about what you're seeing in that market and what your expectation might be if you're willing to offer one for next year.
Yes.
I think what we've seen -- let's say longer term and shorter term over the past couple of years we've seen a change in at least some elements of the procurement cycle where high quality -- it's harder to get paid for great IP in some of our areas.
We commented on that in PDRI.
I think on balance the businesses are stable.
We saw some sequential progression in PDRI and a solid performance in the CEB side of it but we're going to be very careful about how much we want to grow that business.
We only want to get the best pieces of this and compete for the most attractive components if there are some procurement questions and procurement issues that are making parts of the business less profitable or less exciting.
We'll be planful in how we attack that market.
But I'd say sequentially we saw stability and progress but we're going to be very careful with how we approach that market.
We did at the beginning of this year start rotating some people and capabilities out of that market brought some PRI resources to the commercial market rotated some people out because we thought there were better and richer opportunities outside the federal market sector than inside at this point.
And we'll take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan on for Manav and I know we're running over.
So I'll be brief.
I just wanted to clarify.
I think you'd said that the SHL growth in 4Q would be mid- to high single digits.
Was that constant currency? Or is that impacted by FX? That's constant currency.
Research Division</strong> Constant currency great.
And then I mean obviously the growth among the middle-sized clients was pretty impressive.
Is that kind of a future state -- is the large client -- for the large institutions the CV per member institution is that just a matter of saturation? Or is there now a shifting focus towards growing that middle market even further? No.
We actually saw very good new client growth in both middle market and large enterprise and there are still -- if you look at the Fortune 100 there aren't dozens of them for us to go get that first membership at but if you look at the broader universe of just under 5 000 large corporate entities globally there is still plenty of great new logos to put on the membership list and start growing.
And so we had a strong quarter in large enterprise new logo acquisition as well.
So the new logo acquisition story was not a middle-market phenomenon exclusively.
It was a large-enterprise phenomenon and a global phenomenon.
So the ACV is going to have a dampening effect when you have that kind of quarter and add a lot of great new logos because we -- the customers tend to start with a narrow set of products usually a thing to get going and over time that becomes a great platform for cross-sell and premium services et cetera.
But in the very near term they tend to start below the large corporate average and that does create a slight dampening effect.
Our largest and best -- large enterprises continue to grow at a very healthy clip but there's an optical effect when you do add lots of large enterprises down at the low-end buying that first thing.
So now this doesn't -- it's not a shift in the growth strategy at all.
It's just good news that we're able -- like a good story that we're able to get out and get customers engaged for the first time and get them onto that growth path that we've historically seen.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on SHL in your talks with clients is there anything you've -- they've kind of said that needs to be added? Or is there any additional investment to kind of build out capabilities there whether it be organically or through kind of any tuck-in to just build out that platform? Yes.
We talked a lot this year about the TalentCentral platform which is -- really if you think about that business there's 2 types of experiences you're engineering toward.
One is a great candidate experience people who are applying for jobs or trying to get into a leadership development program within their own organization.
Our teams spend a lot of time making sure those people have great experiences that it's simple easy to use et cetera; and the administrator.
And the -- think about the HR department whether it be that of talent acquisition or the head of HR who wants to manage that process wants to see data coming from those pipelines.
The TalentCentral platform is a big step forward on both functions and that gives us -- we'll obviously keep evolving that platform in both directions but the core focus of our investment this year was to get a great new platform in place and so far customer feedback has been terrific.
But we'll keep evolving that and I expect that that will be an everyday part of the story as we make both the candidate and employee experience richer on one end of the system and the analytic and administrative capabilities richer on the other end.
And we'll take our final question today from David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the preliminary guidance.
Just on revenue the U.S.
dollar appreciation that we've seen year-to-date that's likely to have a call it 1- to 2-point drag in 2015 correct? And so I'm just wondering first am I in the ballpark on that? And then was that guidance constant currency or sort of including that? It's constant-currency guidance David and certainly the -- as we sit here today with the pound that on a relative basis would be a bit of a headwind.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then did you -- I heard somebody ask it before but I'll try one more time.
The Contract Value contribution that you -- the number you gave last quarter for Talent Neuron and KnowledgeAdvisors is that relatively the same if we're using that as a proxy for what it was in the third quarter? It's not a bad number to use.
Suffice it -- I mean you can assume we're continuing to make steady progress but it's not a bad number to use.
And again the more important point is that those businesses are really very well assimilated into the segment overall and we're focusing in on the overall number as the platform for growth and the way to think about growth going forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then when you give the new definitions for free cash EPS and adjusted EBITDA you're going to give reconciliations for the prior year correct? You can assume that we would provide yes prior year figures that were adjusted in the same way.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for calling in or logging into today's event.
Let me close the call by summarizing my earlier remarks.
Our performance keeps us on track to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for the year and we're pleased with broad-based healthy organic growth from all of our major markets.
We're also excited as we look ahead to 2015 that we are in a position to continue sustaining this performance.
Rich and I look forward to seeing many of you in our travels over the next few months.
We're currently slated to be in the next few weeks at the JPMorgan Ultimate Services Conference and the SunTrust Business Services Conference and are currently planning some other opportunities to be out on the road with investors as well.
Thanks everyone for calling in.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story.
Thank you and that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.