Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll first go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Hi.
Thank you very much for taking my questions this morning.
Tom and Rich can you talk a little bit more about the professional services component of SHL? And is there a seasonal cycle to that? Can you explain exactly what you are doing and what your efforts to convert some of the professional services type effort to kind of a recurring contract?  Shlomo it's Tom.
If you look at the SHL business it breaks roughly into 70% subscription and/or highly recurring contracts that are usually on the core technology platform and selection and assessment instruments; and 30% is services tied to and related to those tools and resources.
And what you find is the professional services component of the business usually is at one of two levels either at the front end of a new usage of a new tool a new product et cetera where they need a little help configuring exactly what they want to get done.
They know they want to use these technologies and tools to make better decisions; but which population which region which cut score which thing do they want to influence? And that is a human interchange – a smart person sitting down with them and helping them think about that really helps them get the better outcomes.
And then often as they deploy the tools and resources there's always room for interpretation.
What exactly is this telling me? How can I make better decisions? How can I drive better outcomes? So there's a consistent engagement.
Some of that does get bundled into the subscriptions but a fair bit is actually consumed as people use the tools and services.
We're – obviously it's good revenue so we're pleased with it.
Second we think it's a good indicator when people are using more of it sooner because it means they are deploying the tools more broadly using it to apply to better and more frequent interactions with their labor markets et cetera.
So we think the acceleration usage we saw is a healthy indicator.
Over time as subscriptions grow in that business some of that gets bundled in it will be less visible as it moves between quarters.
But right now because it's built out as it's consumed it shows up when they use it.
And was the usage that we are seeing right in the last quarter the high usage – was it a – the front-end or the back-end? In other words does this kind of illustrate that we have more demand coming up? Or is this hey we've already instituted stuff over the last year and now we want to get more insight out of what we've got? just because that's when people tend to do stuff.
Third is a little quiet – it's summer; people aren't making a lot of decisions about promotions inside their company or hiring outside it.
So you do tend to see a little bit more seasonal activity.
And in Q4 we just saw an acceleration of that.
And then could you – Rich maybe you could talk about this.
You had Contract Value growth of about 8.7%.
But if you do the math I'm coming up with bookings growth of 10.1%.
And is there – could you kind of bridge that a little bit in why I'm not seeing a higher Contract Value growth reflective of those bookings?  Sure.
There's a couple factors at play.
As an overview you are seeing a little bit of a different trend in terms of how the business flows from bookings into Contract Value into revenue due to the timing of some of the services revenue.
And some of the projects some of the premium service consumption has a shorter timeframe to be consumed than a typical contract itself.
So it will move through Contract Value faster.
You also have some impacts from FX and also the impact of the historical impact of the government factors that we talked about earlier.
So Contract Value is a little bit more of a cumulative look-back type of metric where the bookings are more kind of real-time in the quarter activity.
Okay.
And then is there a way we should think – can you talk a little bit more just about SHL margin progression through the year? And then – from a seasonal perspective? And then just in general how we should think of the margin progression in a multiyear period.
Yes.
I mean I think you're going to – you're certainly going to see improvement in margins throughout the full year of 2014.
That's what we would anticipate happening.
You will see some seasonality in there as well consistent with some of the revenue trends.
So as revenue declines into the first quarter which is our expectation you should see a lower margin relatively there as a result.
That should pick up again in the second quarter on stronger revenue and such.
I think over time we still think that they should be able to – we should be able to move the margins back closer to where that company was performing on a margin basis at the time of acquisition.
But that's still going to be a process over probably a couple-year period.
Okay I'm just going to leave with a last question.
Can you just talk more qualitatively on the progression in the cross-sell in the US which seemed to be the most immediate opportunity for SHL?  I think Shlomo we're early days still.
We saw North America continue to gather momentum in the SHL business and we certainly have seen good promising early indicators in terms of cross-selling across both businesses.
But to be honest the richer opportunity is still ahead of us.
We see good indicators.
We've got good processes in place.
But we are not – I think it was a minor contributor to the great performance of that business in the quarter.
I think more of the great performance of that business was just teams going out and executing incredibly well on the opportunities in front of them.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just – I wanted to ask about the revenues.
And it sounds like FX is definitely one factor.
But you said a quarter ago midpoint of the guidance now the adjusted revenue guidance implies 8 to 10 which is in the lower half of the range.
So PDRI is probably a little weaker.
FX it sounds like is a bit of a headwind.
Are those the two primary factors? Or is there anything else that's led to a bit more conservatism?  No I think those are certainly factors.
I'd say the guidance certainly reflects our current visibility and plans for the year and it's definitely inside the long-term range.
I think you're – there is a little bit of noise when you're looking at the year-over-year comparison based on the fact that we did accelerate some revenue into the fourth quarter of this year that we had otherwise expected to come in the first quarter.
So there's a little bit of a shift there that dampens those growth rates a little bit.
And then as you said kind of FX is a headwind still and PDRI is also a small headwind.
Can we get a little more color on that concept of pulling sales forward and now you need a pipeline build was how I think you said it? What exactly happened? And how quickly do you think that gets back on track?  Gary if you think about the way this – when a customer let's say in the CEB segment buys a subscription sometimes they will package in a little bit of a premium service.
Think about a company that wants to use all our great sales data but also wants us to do two one-day kickoffs in each of its divisions to share the key findings of what we've learned and how it applies to them.
The bulk of the revenue comes in the form of a subscription that we recognize across the next 12 months.
But we have to – as we talked about a couple years ago we have to recognize those two one-day events when they occur.
And normally it has a pretty standard set of distributions.
We saw more people in Q4 saying hey I want that kickoff in December versus January which moves revenue from one year into the other.
So that was in Contract Value.
It drops through revenue in the quarter.
And obviously we think it's great because it means people are using our work more often and frequently sooner which is fantastic.
So we're – our answer is sure when they ask.
But it means that when we open the doors on January 1 some things that would have been in CEB last year at this time have moved already through revenue and puts us a little bit in a position where we need to rebuild that revenue profile.
Does that make sense? That's great.
Yes it does.
And then the member relations and marketing expense grew quite a bit sequentially.
I think you said there was some pulling forward of sales hiring or sales hiring ahead of 2014 for the CEB segment.
In light of that how should we think about that in absolute dollar terms trending? Is it likely to be flattish in the next quarter or so? Or do we see a continued growth progression in that expense line?  You are saying what's the sequential trend in member relations and marketing? Yes.
I mean it was up a little more than $5 million sequentially.
And I think you said you did some hiring ahead.
If you did the hiring ahead does that mean it's sort of a flattish trend in the next quarter or two? I'm just trying to think through Q1.
You know it's flattish to potentially a little bit down just based on some of the other activities that occur in the first quarter that are more variable you know things like travel and such like that.
But certainly the hiring a large portion of the hiring was done as we came into the year.
There's still going to be more hiring as we go through the year.
But that was a big component.
Another component was frankly some additional incentive accruals based on performance in the fourth quarter which was better than we had anticipated before.
So that drove kind of a higher incentive rate in the fourth quarter.
And obviously performance in the first quarter will have an impact on where those land for first quarter.
But that might normalize a bit as we go into this year.
And then just one last one for me – are you willing – do you have the data or could you share with us – in the past in the fourth quarter you have given us the Contract Value growth in the year for your top 200 customers.
Did that number continue to trend at a higher rate than the total Company growth? Thank you.
Yes it was a little bit higher than the total Company.
The total Company Contract Value per institution was about 1.4%.
That top 200 number went up by 2% 3%.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Yes.
Thank you.
So the CEB segment wallet retention has been ticking down a little bit through the year.
Any trends you've been seeing on renewal rates among clients or perhaps among membership programs?  Hey David.
We expect that number to bounce around a little bit within a healthy zone and we certainly think we are in a healthy zone.
A couple factors pushed it down versus last year's comp just down marginally.
One is – remember last year we had a small one-time benefit from the inclusion of Alterra still flowing through that number.
This is – if you think about this number – this is also where the currency and government headwinds flow through.
Government was the place where in essence we had every customer in government.
And on balance they bought a little less from us.
So that's going to flow right through.
Beyond that though I think we saw consistent strength across the business and across the regions – setting aside US government as a small sour note – consistent strength across the regions on a constant currency basis in renewal rate in cross-sell et cetera.
So all the customer dynamics remained really healthy and that's why that number is in a good zone to start with.
Okay.
Maybe a quick one for Rich.
Any range on the acquisition-related costs that you expect in 2014?   You know I think there will be a little bit coming through on Talent Neuron through the year as we integrate that business.
But certainly nowhere near what we saw in 2013.
We are not going to be reporting any more acquisition-related costs related to SHL in 2014.
Got it.
And then maybe one last one – can you give us – I know in the CEB segment you've been focused on software tool add-ons and training and other revenue sources outside the core membership revenue.
Can you give us an update for in the CEB segment what percentage of revenue now comes from those non-membership sources?  David about 10% still.
We are adding those things.
We think the primary objective is to help people use the core membership programs more.
And that's really what we are seeing.
They drive great occasions for us to make the products stickier and activate broader usage.
And so the percentage of overall CEB segment revenue hasn't moved much even as the business has grown.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Yes.
Excuse me just following up on some of the other questions about the headwind from foreign exchange and I guess the timing of some revenue movement forward.
Can you quantify any of that at all for us? For – I think foreign exchange I guess you did but how much revenue moved forward relative to what is normal – or how much Contract Value moved forward relative to what's normal? And then the drag – I guess how much of a drag in Contract Value from the government?  As far as the – roughly $5 million of revenue was in the fourth quarter number that accelerated from where we otherwise would have thought it would have been in the first quarter.
As far as the government drag on Contract Value certainly that business is showing signs of stabilization.
And we have very modest expectations for that business for this year.
So it's not going to be certainly a contributor to Contract Value growth in the year.
Were you looking for a backward look at government or a forward look?  Yes I guess what I'm trying to get at is kind of if you strip out government and I guess this timing thing is the underlying trend for North America faster or slower than before? Given – it sounds like Europe had a good close to the finish.
And given the overall number is down I'm trying to understand all those puts and takes and understand if the core kind of North America business slowed a little or is kind of still trending in line?  I think the core North American business in both large enterprise and middle-market corporate is a blessed sense of no news at all.
It continues to make great progress I think very consistently across the quarters and across the years.
Okay.
And then on SHO where – so you're talking about excluding foreign exchange some pretty healthy margin lift it sounds like.
So I am assuming you are not adding a ton of sales people at this point but what would be your thought on continuing to invest in that sales force? Is there the potential that you start to see as you start to see productivity of that sales force you will make another round of significant investment? Or are we more in the harvesting phase of that investment for the next two years?  I think our view longer-term is we'll grow the sales force roughly in line with the revenue growth.
It's served the other CEB segment pretty well.
So given the healthy growth in that business and given the systems and processes we have put in place we think we've built a great platform to continue adding salespeople at a rate consistent with the high levels of growth we see there.
Would that be true even this year? Or do you wait to see some productivity from the large amount you added last year?  Yes we're certainly selectively finding some places to add capacity.
But we did do a one-time step-up that we're still digesting a little bit.
But you do see some impact on the – you do see some impact already from the investments we made last year.
You're certainly not going to see anywhere near the same magnitude of investment that you saw in 2013.
Okay.
And somewhat related to that just a little bit more long-term but now that you've had this business for 18 months or so the margins obviously came down a lot last year in big part I think because of the sales force investment.
But is there any reason as you see that sales force mature that you want to get back to historical margins looking out three years or something like that?  I think that's certainly our objective.
And we don't see any reason why we shouldn't be able to get back to that level of margins.
It's not going to happen this year.
And it's going to depend on us getting the full leverage out of the investments we've made and continuing to progress on the path we're on.
And we feel good about the direction that we're heading in.
I guess just – and one more follow-up.
How is pricing for SHO relative to the trends? I don't think I've heard you say a lot about the pricing trends relative to where you've been.
Are they flattish? Are they up or down a little?  Yes I think there's a little noise as the conversion to subscription continues to unfold.
Because in some cases when you convert to a subscription you probably give up a little bit of the marginal pricing of a spot buy but overall pricing trends are very healthy.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi.
I was wondering just on – my first question here the guidance seems to be at a very kind of wide range here.
Maybe you can help us understand the differences between the top and bottom of those ranges as far as assumptions?  In terms of just the revenue piece or the EPS? Well I think – actually I think you explained sort of the FX in the margin side so more on the revenue side yes.
Yes.
Well certainly just as always there's going to be – a lot is going to depend on execution.
There's going to be certainly some impact in terms of overall economic conditions.
We feel like conditions are pretty stable right now.
We've seen some improvement in Europe.
We certainly as Tom said still see very solid conditions in North America.
We're – but it's largely going to depend on execution of the entire team as we go through the year.
Okay.
So – okay then.
Maybe just ask it a different way.
On the Contract Value we spent a lot of different time there.
How does that look as we go through the year? Obviously we had FX and PDRI in the fourth quarter.
It sounds like there was some pull forward of some business.
You talked about rebuilding the pipeline.
What's the progression of Contract Value as you look at the demand environment right now as we go through 2014?  Yes well I think generally speaking it should follow the same kinds of seasonal trends that you've typically seen.
And typically Contract Value will dip a bit in the first quarter and then grow as we go throughout the year.
And it's going to grow over longer periods of time in line with bookings growth.
And we are at a level right now that generally speaking bookings are in line with that – those long-term ranges and Contract Value should be following along with that as well.
Got it.
So step-down from this level in the first quarter and then build along with the rest of the revenues? Is that fair?   Yes.
Okay.
And then lastly on the SHL growth profile I don't know if I misheard this but I think it's showed up at about I don't know 16% that the growth rate has been pretty good in the business.
I think you might have mentioned that that seems like a high water mark.
Maybe you could just walk us through the growth profile for that business going forward and what your thoughts are there.
Sure.
I think – we obviously are excited by the momentum that business has continued to show over the last three quarters.
And we think as the business continues to grow we see plenty of opportunity for healthy growth in our traditional 8% to 13% organic growth rate.
This was a little bit beyond that because of some one-time client deliveries et cetera.
And there's probably not a major headwind but a minor headwind as more and more of that business converts to subscription.
When someone converts to a subscription in the first quarter that probably moderates their revenue growth a little bit.
So when you take all those factors into account on one side – incredibly vast opportunities out in front of us great execution by the team and a little bit of a headwind from conversion to subscriptions – we think that consistently you will see that business in the 8% to 13% range.
Obviously this quarter we got out ahead of that.
And no one gets punished when that happens but I think it's reasonable to expect it will be in that range more often than it's out of it.
Yes you can feel free to get out ahead of it more (laughs) but – the last question just on SHL.
Going forward do you think that – is there the potential that you may receive some level of upside on your aggregate numbers as the margin profile improves and as growth rates stay – moderate and/or stay strong? I'm just wondering if what you're building into the progression going forward that on an aggregate basis there's certainly the potential that SHL outperforms particularly because it's technology-based?  Yes.
I mean I think certainly there is some potential over time to get better leverage there and that would be one of the things that should drive us back towards those historical margins over time.
I think for this year we definitely expect some improvement but not step function-level improvement.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you think you're taking share in SHL? You know if you think of share as what percentage of talent decisions that people make using any resource other than their own judgment absolutely.
Yes that's – the longer-term opportunity here is not really between other assets in the space.
The longer opportunity is to convert more and more talent decisions to having rigor and quantitative analysis behind them.
One of the statistics we came across recently is that your average fantasy football player consults four information sources before making a decision above 13.
Your average corporate manager consults none.
So we see a major opportunity to just keep getting more rigor more analysis and better decision-making into how people think about talent in their organization.
So that's a long-term trend that we think benefits – and the growth in the business indicates we are doing that every day.
Sure.
But relative to players that are in the space selling different services to help effect the same broader change in the way managers behave how do you feel the growth is in SHL? How does it compare? Yes.
I think we've got such a strong resource base that we can put – someone who is really serious about improving the quality of their decisions would have a very hard time looking elsewhere for help.
And I think our teams feel that we are very well positioned.
And I think the data seems – or the data we can gather seems to indicate that we show pretty well in putting the value of our tools in front of people and displacing other tools or making sure that people use more of our tools versus taking other resources into their organization.
We feel good about the quality of the resources and the conversation that allows us to have as people automate and instrument more of these decisions.
So we feel good about the trend line on that front.
I do think the larger opportunity is still gathering more decisions even as we continue to compete for and win the ones that people have an intention of using help on.
Thank you.
And the people that were involved in the government customer base that were kind of repositioned and repurposed last year is there a ramp time for them to be productive with commercial customers? Or is that transition relatively quick?  The answer is kind of all the above with a couple of the senior – we still have a great team in place in government.
The government business isn't going away.
So the CEB.gov and the PDRI businesses are strong.
We just can't ask them to grow as fast as the rest of the Company this year.
We do have very strong teams in place against those.
We did selectively move a few high performers out and gave them commercial opportunities.
And since they're high performers you would guess that the speed at which they are able to have some impact is pretty fast.
And we're – we've got them in place early this year and you can assume they will see a pretty quick ramp across the year.
Some of the stuff that will be slower is where the PDRI resources which are highly relevant to some commercial sector problems that we don't have great resources in place for right now are being repositioned.
And that's going to take a couple quarters for the messaging the positioning and the impact of those to be where they need to be.
But I think you'll see that flow-in across the year.
So separating people from solutions people probably have faster impact than the repositioning of some of these solutions.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just two quick ones on the SHL North American sales force.
Just where are they on their sort of seasoning or getting up to productivity? And can you – besides the pull forward of demand – and there was some I think you said in SHL as well – how much is that bigger sales force contributing to that 16% constant currency growth? And then second just – Rich I just want to make sure I'm doing my calcs right – 80 basis points of margin headwind sounds like about $0.13 to EPS versus what it would have been without the FX for 2014 guidance.
Does that sound right to you? Thanks.
Yes.
If you look at the sales force I think at a very macro level we are certainly very pleased with the investments we made really at two levels.
One is putting additional support in for the great sales people that were already in the business making sure they were supported from a process perspective and a support staff booking meetings perspective.
And some of those benefits flow through more quickly.
If you just give a top sales performer more help and get them in front of more customers more often you are going to see better outcomes.
So those investments probably pay off a little more quickly.
The brand-new quota-bearing FTEs are staying right with what we have seen our historical ramp to productivity is.
So in a first year their contribution is marginal; the second year they start to pick up some momentum.
Usually in the third year they start to arrive at average sales force productivity.
So I think we will continue to see their productivity ramps across this year.
As with all things a few are already having tremendous impact.
The rest will I'm sure come online across this year and be full contributors by next year.
And Paul yes you're in the right ballpark there with that calculation.
Great.
And Tom I'd like to just come back to it – so it sounds like we are still early innings on the – that sort of bulk hiring you did ramp to productivity?  Yes.
I think we're at third and fourth inning.
And it's progressing – the question we ask is does it look like they are progressing at a very healthy rate vis-a-vis past sales classes that we've brought in? And the answer is yes.
I think the – some of the work we did to put in place good strong process good strong support mechanisms is leading to good healthy progression through the normal ramp.
If I could sneak one more in.
Tom you hired all these people through the SHL database for system correct? – using that SHL analytics?  We've been very active consumers of assessment and predictive technologies in all of our sales activities.
And you can imagine the SHL tools are at the very heart of that yes.
Thank you.
Yes sorry just two quick numbers questions follow-up.
Rich how much of the depreciation and amortization is intangible amortization that gets added back when we do adjusted earnings?  For this quarter? For the year – the 63 to – or 64 to 66 or whatever the D&amp;A guidance you gave.
It's going to be very similar to the number we had this year which was in if I remember well in the low 30s.
I'd have to pick that number up specifically.
Okay.
And then just…  It's not going to be meaningfully different from – it will go up a little bit on the Talent Neuron acquisition but not a lot.
Okay.
And then I was looking back.
I thought I had it but did you give what the exact currency impact on Contract Value growth was for the quarter? What it would have been on a constant currency basis?  It held back Contract Value growth by about 50 basis points in the quarter.
Okay thank you.
Thanks everyone for calling in or logging in.
We always appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed on the CEB story and the great work our teams are doing around the world.
We look forward to seeing many of you on our travels across the next couple months.
Rich and I will be at the Baird event in late February and on the road a couple of times during the quarter.
For those of you who have your calendars out and are looking further ahead we really do hope to see many of you at our Annual Investor Day on June 18th in our Arlington Virginia offices.
We look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story as the year progresses.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!