Good morning and welcome to CEB's First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through May 7 by dialing 719-457-0820.
The replay pass code is 2022712.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through May 7 at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2015 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its first quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in this morning.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring you up to speed on the continued impact growth and profitability of the business.
I'll kick off the call with some summary comments about our performance in the first quarter.
Rich will then provide a more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
I'll then close with a look at go-forward strategic priorities before we take your questions.
I'll begin my remarks on slide three.
In summary we're off to a solid start in 2015.
As most of you know Q1 performance usually reflects some seasonal patterns that are consistent year-to-year throughout the business.
In general Q1 is our heaviest quarter for renewals and a bit lighter in terms of new sales and cross-sells.
Given bookings and expense patterns it is also a strong quarter for cash flow and our end of quarter balance sheet usually reflects a seasonally strong cash collection profile.
Within that backdrop our first quarter outcomes put us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015 on a constant currency basis.
The first quarter's results also allow us to execute on our planned strategy for higher levels of capital return even as we maintain flexibility to act strategically.
And most importantly we continue to lay the groundwork for sustained performance in 2015 and beyond.
However we are focused on sharp execution to achieve all we set out to accomplish in the year.
We had a solid start to the year but at this point I'd probably give our performance a B rather than an A as I am not fully satisfied that we are performing to our potential everywhere.
Given our unmatched installed base of customers unparalleled sets of insights and solutions and strong seasoned teams I see an opportunity for us to achieve at higher level as the year unfolds and our guidance reflects that expectation.
Before I hand the call to Rich let me offer some additional color about the quarter.
To reflect the actual performance of our business and teams I'll use constant currency outcomes as a baseline.
All of our major markets turned in solid results for the quarter.
We continue to enjoy benefits from the breadth of our business across diverse sectors and geography and the energy and commitment of top-notch teams.
With respect to geographic end markets we continue to see modest variations in CEB segment Contract Value growth.
All three major geographic areas grew at or near the corporate average with EMEA performing below the average growth rate by a couple hundred basis points and the North American and Asia-Pacific regions growing slightly above.
Within the CEB segment drivers of growth continued in line with our historical targets with prices increases on renewed programs trending in the historical 3% to 5% range.
Other key growth drivers are also largely trending within their historical ranges setting us up well to achieve our targets for the year.
We're focusing on two places as we get out of the gate.
First as you would guess we see limited opportunity for near-term growth in oil and gas and similar commodities-related industries.
Thus we've had to do some rebalancing of opportunities against territories and teams.
CEB's broad industry footprint is a real asset in situations like this.
Less than 3% of our members are in oil and gas and we have deep relationships in businesses that actually benefit from lower oil prices.
However this does require our teams to shift focus.
Second we are doubling down on how to most effectively support our largest customers.
One of the real drivers of our growth and our go-forward strategy has been the rapid growth of our largest customers.
As we continue to redefine what it means to be a large CEB customer we need to be vigilant in making sure that our teams are equipped and held accountable for managing more complex relationships.
The SHL segment also started the year on the right track.
Constant currency revenue growth was in our target range even as we see continued normalization of margins.
We also got off to a good start on the booking front following the continued trend towards subscription contracts that we discussed last year.
Clearly we're seeing the progress we want to on the margin front.
Rich will get into more detail here but the headline numbers are a mix of continued scaling and normalization cost management and efficiency and some one-time optical factors.
Currency movements obviously affect the reported margin but the timing of new product launches and some sales and marketing activity ramps also shifted expenses a bit later in the year.
The larger takeaway from the quarter is that we are on track to meet our margin targets.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong cash position and solid bookings put us in a position to continue our high levels of capital return and to keep our eyes open for strategic opportunities.
While valuations for some smaller companies in our segments continue to be a bit challenging we do see opportunities for smaller tuck-in acquisitions and these may materialize over the next six quarters.
In summary we're off to a solid start in 2015 but given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we're also holding ourselves to a high standard of execution and focus as the year unfolds.
Let me now hand the call to Rich to discuss a detailed review of our financial performance and outlook for the year.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Please turn now to slide four for a summary recap of our results.
As you are surely aware the U.S.
dollar strengthened further during the quarter and this continuing trend impacts both our results for this quarter and our outlook for the rest of the year.
At a consolidated level foreign exchange rates constrained year-over-year adjusted revenue growth by approximately 340 basis points and reduced adjusted EBITDA by $1.6 million.
Based on the rates in effect at March 31 2015 we now see about a 450-basis point headwind to full year revenue growth due to currencies.
Revenue was $221.6 million in the first quarter of 2015 an increase of 5.8% on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 23.9% in the first quarter compared to 19.8% in the first quarter of 2014.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.56 compared to $0.22 in the first quarter of 2014 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.73 versus $0.56 in the comparable prior-year quarter.
As a reminder beginning this quarter we are now adjusting our non-GAAP metrics to exclude the impact of net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses included in other income.
Now let's turn to slide five and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment Contract Value at March 31 2015 was $663.1 million which is up 6.8% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis Contract Value growth was 9.1%.
Constant currency CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 97% versus 99% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 104% versus 103% last year.
Wallet retention in both segments remains in the normal range and continues to provide a solid platform for overall growth in revenue.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 6.1% to 6 961 in the first quarter reflecting continued growth in the CEB segment middle market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment Contract Value per member institution on a constant currency basis was $97.2 thousand at March 31 2015 which is a 2.9% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix impact from both middle-market members and strength in large corporate new logo acquisition.
To illustrate this affect CEB segment Contract Value per institution at March 31 was $146.7 thousand for large corporate members and $30.5 thousand in middle market representing annual increases of 2.7% and 5.6% respectively.
Please turn to slide six and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment revenue was $172.9 million in the first quarter an increase of 7.6% versus the first quarter of 2014.
On a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted revenue growth was 9%.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue was flat and adjusted revenue declined 1.3% to $49.1 million in the first quarter of 2015.
SHL Talent Measurement segment revenue includes a $400 000 reduction to reflect the deferred revenue fair value adjustment.
And so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue growth was 8%.
Consolidated operating expenses grew more slowly on a year-over-year basis than in prior years.
As compared to the first quarter of 2014 cost of services increased $1.4 million member relations and marketing expense decreased $700 000 and general administrative costs decreased $300 000.
The stronger U.S.
dollar mitigated year-over-year increases across all of these categories as did slower head-count growth and disciplined cost management.
In addition our first quarter expense profile was favorably impacted by a timing shift of some sales marketing and new product development activities that will contribute to sequentially higher expenses in the second quarter.
As discussed on our last call we recorded an additional $1.2 million of restructuring costs in the first quarter.
Interest income and other was $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to net expense of $500 000 in the first quarter of 2014.
This year-over-year change was primarily due to net non-operating FX gains driven by the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound.
Interest expense in the first quarter of 2015 was $4.4 million compared to $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin in the first quarter of 2015 was 23.9% versus 19.8% in the first quarter of 2014 reflecting expense scaling on year-over-year revenue growth.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 25.7% reflecting solid revenue growth and cost management.
In this segment the favorable foreign currency impact on expenses offset the related revenue headwinds and provided a net 30 basis point boost to adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 25.4% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 22.1% in the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 17.9%.
Margin in this segment continue to normalize as revenue growth stays in the target range and operating expense growth slows.
The impact of FX rates on operating profit reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 110 basis points in this segment and so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 19% in the first quarter of 2015 versus 12.5% in the first quarter of 2014.
Depreciation and amortization in the first quarter was $16.8 million an increase of $300 000 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The provision for income taxes was $12.2 million in the first quarter and the effective tax rate was 38.9% versus an effective tax rate of 41.3% in the first quarter of 2014.
Please turn to slide seven for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $204.2 million of cash at March 31.
Accounts receivable were $190.9 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $478.7 million at March 31 2015.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenue increased 5.7%.
On a constant currency basis deferred revenue growth was 8.1% which is a positive leading indicator for future revenue.
We ended the quarter with $503 million of total debt and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.2 times.
While leverage stepped down meaningfully since December 31 this outcome is largely due to strong seasonal cash flows in the first quarter and we would expect this metric to move up in the next three months.
Additionally we continue to maintain access to about $189 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
Cash flows from operations in the first quarter of 2015 were $124.1 million an increase of 8.4% compared to 2014.
These cash flows were very consistent with historical seasonal patterns even as year-over-year growth was tempered a bit by timing differences on cash tax payments.
In the quarter we spent $6.1 million on capital expenditures.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business and we paid $12.5 million in dividends while repurchasing $6.6 million of stock during the first quarter.
These actions reflect the approach we outlined on our last earnings call.
Given the quality of our business models and the strength of our underlying operations we have ample liquidity both to return capital to shareholders via our enhanced dividend and share buyback while also remaining strategically active should great opportunities arise.
Please turn to slide eight and we'll move on to our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and reflect assumptions which are subject to change.
As Tom said at the beginning of today's call our first quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for the year on a constant currency basis.
Our financial results continue to be exposed to foreign currencies especially the British pound the euro and the Australian dollar and the stronger U.S.
dollar is creating what is now about a 450 basis point headwind to year-over-year revenue growth.
While these influences will remain variable throughout the year going forward we believe it will be useful to refresh our views each quarter based on the prior quarter's ending exchange rates.
Accordingly we have updated our 2015 outlook to reflect foreign currency exchange rates that were in effect as of March 31 2015.
In particular this guidance assumes an average exchange rate of $1.48 to the British pound $1.08 to the euro and $0.76 to the Australian dollar.
As currencies continue to move throughout the year the impact of FX will be an important factor influencing where we land in our guidance ranges especially for revenue.
These top line exposures are somewhat mitigated by natural cost offsets and we have also broadened our currency hedging program to reduce a portion of the volatility that flows through to our earnings.
We now expect our full year 2015 adjusted revenue to be between $945 million and $970 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $1 million this year so the GAAP revenue outlook is $944 million to $969 million.
Importantly these ranges would represent constant currency adjusted revenue growth of 8% to 11%.
We continue to expect full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margin of between 25.5% and 26% which would represent a 50 basis point to 100 basis point improvement compared to 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin of 25% using our revised definition that excludes net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses.
Depreciation and amortization in 2015 is expected to be between $68 million and $70 million.
Capital expenditures are anticipated to be between $32 million and $34 million which is consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
The 2015 core tax rate is currently estimated to be approximately 37% to 38%.
We are continuing to target that range and are pursuing specific plans to achieve that objective.
Of course the tax provision is also subject to a number of other uncertainties including the impact of foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses discrete items that are not currently recognizable under U.S.
GAAP and the global allocation of income across tax jurisdictions.
Incorporating all of these factors in 2015 we expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $3.50 to $3.85.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance here are some thoughts on sequential trends to expect throughout the rest of the year.
As in prior years on a constant currency basis we expect sequential growth in revenue and earnings in each of the remaining quarters with larger gains in the second half of the year.
However on an actual currency basis meaningful progress will likely not come until the third quarter of the year.
Assuming rates stay at current levels the most significant year-over-year currency headwinds will be present in the second quarter.
This factor will probably mean low to mid single-digit sequential growth in adjusted revenue for the second quarter.
On the earning fronts the timing of product development and launch activities as well as sales and marketing expense ramps this year is concentrating more spend in the second and third quarters.
Accordingly you should expect flat to very low sequential growth in second quarter non-GAAP EPS versus this year's first quarter.
That concludes the financial summary.
I'll now turn the call back over to Tom to review our strategic priorities.
Thanks Rich.
Let me pick up my remarks on slide nine.
As I said at the outset of the call we are very excited about the opportunity ahead of us in 2015 and beyond.
During the first quarter we continued to lay the groundwork for sustained performance.
Our work focused on the five strategic priorities we discussed on our last earnings call which you can see listed on the page: first must-have insights into talent technology customers and risk; second powerful market touch points; third high-impact analytic and content platforms; fourth compelling careers for top talent; fifth a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Let me share some highlights from the quarter on each of these.
I'll start on slide 10 and discuss must-have insights into talent technology customers and risk.
Insights into the drivers of corporate performance are the foundation of our business.
Simply put great insight powers everything that we do.
Our entire company is driven by an innovative model that allows us to tap the collective experience and workflows of thousands of companies.
Through this process our teams can collect data and generate insights that transform corporate performance.
From these insights we can build tools and resources that enable managers to take action.
Ultimately our model enables executives to do all of this at a fraction of the cost of other sources of support yielding huge ROI for our members and clients.
As you know every year we start by scanning our massive customer base to understand the most pressing issues executives are facing.
This year is proving to offer up another rich trove of challenges and opportunities for which our deep data sets yield uniquely powerful insights.
In particular we are seeing that these issues are not only shared by the same function across companies but they are shared by executives across the C suite.
Recruiting managing and retaining scarce talent is the most obvious of these but recently our teams are seeing other repeating challenges.
Most notably as companies have gotten bigger they are wrestling with how to increase operating clock speed in the face of corporate complexity.
It's simply harder to get stuff done everywhere in the large company.
Just a few examples from our recent work.
Sales leaders see lengthening sales cycles and often smaller deals as everyone from procurement to data privacy to compliance gets involved in buying decisions.
Increasingly large collaborative work teams are creating headaches for recruiters trying to get hiring decisions.
And finally in IT gains from agile development have been more than offset by the costs of wide business partnering.
Our work is generating a broader C suite conversation.
You may have seen the Harvard Business Review feature story on the consensus sale which our team published in March.
To the right you see that an increasing number of buyers drive sales cycles up and deal size down.
Obviously cracking this code yields huge ROI for our members and our tool set helps them do just that.
Please turn to slide 11 for an update on our second priority: powerful market touch points.
We're working to bring a consistent unified presence to market by better aligning products services technologies and teams.
Our goal is to be easy to do business with even as our offering set continues to grow.
Obviously this is most important for our largest customers which as I mentioned in my opening remarks is an area of focus for us.
I'm pleased with our progress so far.
Beginning last year in a number of key markets we have aligned all sales and service teams under a single market leader.
Our Australia New Zealand business is an excellent example of how powerful this approach can be.
The individual customer ROI in getting this right is considerable.
We've already been able to broaden relationships with several of our largest Australian customers through stronger account planning and we see ample opportunity to keep doing this on the horizon.
And while not every market will lend itself to this structure we know we can benefit everywhere from better idea and lead flow across teams and are organizing against that objective.
The payoff will not only be strong growth in cross-sell but ever higher levels of member impact.
Please turn to slide 12 for an update on our third priority: high-impact analytic and content platforms.
We're always working to embed our insights deeply into the workflow of leaders and professionals in our five target functions.
One of our newest offerings targets a universal pain point for corporate leaders: putting the right people into leadership and management roles and giving them the skills to succeed.
This has actually gotten harder given some of the dynamics I outlined above around growing corporate complexity.
Our new CEB enterprise leadership solution blends our assessment technologies with our professional development tools to help executives scale selection placement and development of leaders across larger organizations.
We've already introduced this solution to our members and you can see our marketing materials for the offering on the right side of the slide.
Feedback so far has been very positive.
Please turn to slide 13 for an update our on our fourth priority: compelling careers for top talent.
Great people are critical to our continued success so we are always working to build a world-class CEB team.
As part of hiring developing and retaining great people we prioritize the development of a strong corporate culture.
Our data shows that appropriately reinforcing and transmitting culture is a real driver of corporate performance.
As we have discussed on other calls one unique aspect of CEB culture is our spirit of generosity and within that our broad programs for engaging our teams with our communities.
We challenged ourselves last year to some ambitious goals for community impact and in typical CEB style our staff rose to the occasion enthusiastically delivered on our targets and then surpassed them.
You can see the headline stats on the right-hand side of the slide.
During the year we helped more than 1 250 non-profit leaders grow the management and organizational capacity of their teams delivered nearly $2.5 million in social sector support and provided more than 38 000 volunteer hours.
The aim of these efforts is to combine our expertise and resources to solve real needs in the social sectors.
Beyond extending our zeal for ambitious goal-setting we also see real business returns from both amplifying our brand and helping our top performers develop new skills.
We're proud of our efforts here and copies of our 2014 Community Impact Report are available online.
Please turn to slide 14 for an update on our fifth priority: a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Our work here continues on the three fronts I discussed on our last call.
First making sure that our messaging enables our teams to present a clear consistent and compelling vision about the breadth of support we now offer.
To aid in this effort we are changing our Delaware corporation name to match our brand in the market and our ticker symbol.
As of May 15 our legal name will change from The Corporate Executive Board Company to CEB Inc.
This simple change will help ensure that all messaging and communications both from our teams and other external parties align to the core CEB brand.
Second building large-scale events to complement our more than 1 000 smaller senior-most networking forums.
Third building a reputation for thought leadership through Tier 1 PR and social media.
One highlight from Q1 which you can see on the right-hand side of the slide comes from China.
Human Capital magazine in partnership with Forbes recognized CEB with this year's customer satisfaction award.
This is the fourth consecutive year that CEB has been highlighted at the annual Best HR Service Providers in Greater China event.
Overall we're pleased with our progress on this priority.
All of these efforts boost selling effectiveness and pave the way for more effective cross-sell by giving members a clear sense of our reach breadth and impact.
So to summarize my remarks on slide 15 our first-quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015.
However we remain focused on sharp execution to achieve all we set out to accomplish in the year.
We're continuing to execute on our enhanced capital return efforts while maintaining our strategic flexibility.
And most importantly we continue to lay the groundwork for sustained performance in 2015 and beyond.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
And we will take our first question from Tim McHugh from William Blair.
Hi yes.
Thanks.
Just want to I guess ask a little bit more Rich on the seasonality of the revenue.
I guess one can you – you gave us a number for currency impact for the year but can you help us more specifically what's the year-over-year impact for 2Q that you're expecting that kind of underlies those comments? And I guess separate from the currency impact are there other things that are driving you to expect a little bit more growth I guess at the top line in the back half of the year? I mean I think the currency impact – I don't have a quantification for you for the second quarter specifically other than to say that it's certainly going to be the biggest impact of the year.
I think you're still going to see certainly sequential growth in revenue going from first to second quarter but not in the same magnitude that you saw last year and that's principally going to be related to currencies.
I think as we look forward throughout the rest of the year in terms of how bookings developed in the first quarter how we ended the year last year how Contract Value is sitting as we look ahead and our plans for the rest of the year we see that all contributing along with some less headwind in the second half of the quarter to better revenue growth in the second half of the year.
Okay.
And deferred revenue can you elaborate a little bit more? One I guess the SHL piece of deferred revenue was down a fair amount which was a little puzzling to me but yet I guess another side CEB's – the legacy CEB deferred revenue looked even better than Contract Value growth so I guess what's the underlying story there? Yeah.
I mean I think the SHL deferred revenue certainly if you adjust for the currency impact it was certainly up on a year-over-year basis so that's really currency related.
Okay; that's fair.
And then just to be clear I missed a little bit of the call but the guidance other than currency is there any change I guess? Or I guess where within the old guidance is there a view where you would fall within that based on what you've seen so far this year? No.
I mean I think we're still operating on plan.
We still expect to land in that 8% to 11% constant-currency growth rate.
And the update to guidance was really driven by the change in currency outlook.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Is the first quarter the seasonally low quarter for SHL? I mean I'm just trying to look at history and with the investments it was hard to ferret out.
But would that typically be right? Yeah I mean in terms of revenue first and third quarter are typically lower than you see in second and fourth quarter.
And then certainly margins go along with that as well.
Inc.</span></strong> And so with a ex-FX 19% margin in the first quarter that seems to put you almost on track to exceed your – or you get pretty close to that 20% maybe even this year.
Do you think you're running a little bit ahead of the schedule on SHL margins? I think we're certainly pleased with the progress we're making.
I would say that we are on plan there.
I think it's too early to say that we're ahead of schedule but we're pleased with how we're tracking right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And just you delivered 27% EBITDA growth in the first quarter.
What was the FX headwind to that? Obviously there was a benefit on the margin SHL a detriment to the margin on CEB but then you had some overall revenue.
What would have been the constant-currency EBITDA growth rate? Well the constant-currency EBITDA margin consolidated would have been 24% versus the 19.8% last year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And we'll go now to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Yeah thanks.
I appreciate the color on the next couple quarters.
But can you just give us an order of magnitude? I guess it's implied in your comments but how much cost was maybe shifted from this quarter to next quarter and the one after? Yeah I mean certainly you're looking at a minimum of kind of $4 million to $5 million that we saw shifting.
Okay all right.
And is there anything else going on in the revenue than just the FX? I mean it looks like to me just back of the envelope maybe FX is $5 million or so incremental headwind and yet your commentary seemed to suggest that it would be relative to the normal historical seasonality that it would be more of an impact than that in terms of slower growth Q1 to Q2.
No.
I mean I think there isn't really anything else.
I mean that's really the main driver I think.
Obviously we've highlighted the main currencies but there's a lot of different currencies in the mix here.
Okay.
The SHL growth I think was a little slower than some of us had thought even on a constant-currency basis.
But you made a comment I think it was Tom or one of you about the bookings being good and particularly adjusting some of that to subscription.
Could you just give us a sense how are bookings what are the drivers? You said Europe's growing worse than the rest of the world not surprisingly.
Is that a drag on SHL? Or is there anything else that put this at the low end of your longer term growth target for revenue? Thanks.
I think the big swing thought Gary is that we're a quarter into the year and we're tracking I think – SHL is definitely on track with our expectations for the business.
The goal of the investment cycle we went through was to get the business to a point where it can just reliably generate revenue growth in the target range at CEB caliber margins.
You can see from our guidance and our performance so far that we're on track to do both.
I think we're just a quarter in and I'd expect to see the business continue on that track.
We see great contribution of the business more broadly.
It's opening up opportunities for us in the CEB segment through some of the relationships.
So we're pleased.
As always there's color at the product and regional level but overall we think the business is doing quite well.
And I'd say on balance the European portion of that business is – my comments about Europe were more about the CEB segment than actually the SHL segment.
I think we're finding good opportunity in the SHL business in Europe.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
You made a comment that was sort of curious on M&amp;A you said in the next six quarters which seemed rather specific I guess.
Can you flesh that out a little bit or are there some things in the pipeline that are very far along and you're just in the final stages? And within that last year there was initially quite a bit of dilution when you did a couple of small deals.
Is that something that could happen again? Is that a thought within guidance? Would that be incremental? Just any other color you can provide on what drove you to make that comment on M&amp;A.
Thank you.
Yeah.
The six quarters was a little bit of not putting us on an annual shot clock in any conversation but saying there's stuff we're working on that we think could be promising.
Yeah as you know we've always seen M&amp;A as a complement to our intense focus on organic market development growth; that hasn't changed.
Most of the cool stuff we're doing will be organic.
We also keep our eye open for assets that might complement what we're doing with customers fuel new products or help us scale a market.
As to dilution versus accretion it really depends on what the goal of the acquisition is.
Something like Talent Neuron where we bought in in-process R&amp;D and rapidly accelerated a new product launch that would have otherwise been dilutive to the P&amp;L as an organic thing that may have a dilutive impact.
Other times we're buying businesses that have some scale and enjoying some synergies.
So it really is a case by case basis.
The issue recently has been valuations in some of the sectors we're in.
And we think there may be some opportunities out there.
And so on balance right now there's probably a little more opportunity ex-U.S.
than inside the U.S.
due to more rational valuations and also some currency help.
But nothing to announce today I just was trying to pick a timeline in between this year for sure and at some point in the future and six quarters struck me as a reasonable way to think about how we see the pipeline materializing.
Great.
Thanks.
And we'll go now to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
Wanted to touch on SHL's competitive positioning.
When you're pitching or responding to an RFP are clients most frequently looking at sort of software-focused offerings or more on service-focused offerings? There's three big buckets of conversations you tend to have with clients.
One is you think about not doing anything at all which for the bulk of decisions people are making about talent is still the market share winner which is we make our own decisions we don't have any consistency and we don't have any analytic insight.
So that's the biggest one.
And then there is a choice between do I want a packaged technology delivered solution or do I want a custom arms and legs solution.
And it's horses for courses in those two.
Obviously we're big believers in the packaged technology delivered one but there are definitely clients who say gee I really want to go with something that's very unique to my company built from the ground up for who we are.
We're in a very strong position in the former where someone wants a technology packaged data-rich and highly benchmarkable solution.
We tend not to be as aggressive in competing for the latter where someone says I want to build my own thing that's unique only to me.
So the competitive position has those two dynamics.
Can we get them to apply the decision-making engines to more talent decisions is a really critical thing and that's not so much a competitor as just changing behaviors.
And then the second is within the decision can we convince them to be in a more of a packaged scalable technology delivered platform.
So does that suggest you have kind of a higher win rate when a CIO is in the room or leading the charge versus head of HR or...
We obviously love it when any of the business partners are in the room.
So when it's a head of sales saying I don't know what assessments are I just want to sell more stuff we're incredibly well-positioned due to our depth in those other sectors.
And we're incredibly well-positioned when someone says look we compete for talent with other companies we compete by role by skill so having our own solution that doesn't let us know how good our talent is by comparing it with other people when someone is thinking that way we have a very strong opportunity.
So both of those situations.
But I wouldn't just say the CIO the head of sales the CFO – someone who's trying to say "hey how do we connect talent decisions to business outcomes?" That's the most powerful conversation for us.
And then secondly when someone says "and how do I not do this in a box? How do I understand more broadly how our talent compares across sector across geography where we operate?" Those tend to be good conversations for us if those two factors are present.
Okay.
And then a quick numbers question for Rich.
Based on current FX rates do you have a sense for what the rough impact on adjusted EBITDA or EPS would be for full year 2015? In terms of what the headwind is to growth and those? Yes that would be...
Yeah.
I mean if you look at the margin itself I think the net impact on a full-year basis is probably going to be a slight headwind because of the fact that first of all the net offset to hedging – I'm sorry the natural cost hedge as well as some hedging activities on expenses as well as the fact that with lower revenue we get a little bit of a lift on the margin percentage.
So there's probably – what you saw in the first quarter overall in that kind of 30 basis point range could be a little bit more or less.
But that's probably a good marker.
As far as EPS I think you just take that and flow it through from the headwind on revenue and get to an EPS headwind calculation.
Okay.
And are those sort of rule of thumb numbers still fairly reasonable that you gave I think a quarter or two ago? On balance yes.
I mean they shift around a little bit as the currencies move in relation to each other as well as to the U.S.
dollar but at a 50 000-foot level I think they are reasonable markers still.
Okay.
So use those plus sort of gut check around plus or minus 30 basis points headwind? Yeah.
All right.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
And we'll take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
The first question I had and this might be tied to your commentary on M&amp;A but I think last quarter you guys sounded like a little bit more optimistic in terms of executing on your new buyback program.
And I don't know if I misheard but maybe either you had a set program in place.
So I was just wondering was there anything around timing that had the number lower than what the entire run rate would be? First off Manav I'd say that it's unconnected to the M&amp;A stuff.
The great thing about our business is we generate a lot of cash.
And so we have plenty of liquidity to execute on the enhanced capital return strategies that we talked about and be strategically active when we need to be.
So they're kind of disconnected.
The capital plan we laid out reflected our view of the business and gave us the flexibility to – it gave us the flexibility to be strategically active if we need to.
Yeah.
As we said at the time the plan breaks into two.
One a programmatic approach to make sure we're keeping share account flat.
And then a piece that we could use opportunistically when capital markets presented an opportunity for us to buy back shares at an attractive rate.
Our experience has been two-fold.
It's a rare year when you don't get some sort of hiccup in the markets that there isn't some piece of news come out of somewhere that sends stock prices down and we've seen that pretty consistently.
And when we've seen it we've had a pretty good track record of jumping in and buying and we want to have the capacity to do that when it happens.
Safe to say we didn't see anything on that order of magnitude in Q1 that caused us to act on the opportunistic piece but pretty much every year we've been around you've seen some opportunity to make headway on that.
It'd be great if it never happens and we have to find other ways to deploy that capital but we've seen the capital markets usually present us with opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then the other question I had was I don't know if there's anything to read to it but it looks like your total members added this quarter was one of the lowest in the last five or six.
Is there any oil impact? Or can you give us some color on just some of the trends behind the scenes? No.
I think -- Manav this is Rich -- I mean I think actually if you normalize for the lift we had by acquiring KnowledgeAdvisors last year I think it's actually pretty consistent with what we've seen historically.
So that was a helpful factor in that growth rate last year and now you're seeing a more normalized growth rate as we've anniversaried that acquisition.
Inc.</span></strong> And there's no real energy exposure to point out here? I mean as Tom referenced in his remarks we've got a small portion of our base that's exposed to that sector.
It's kind of less than 3%.
So there's on the margin obviously it created a little incremental headwind but it's not a material exposure to us.
It's a great opportunity for us to be in front as they're re-planning rethinking elements of their business a great opportunity for us to be of value.
So whereas even if it's not as near-term attractive from a growth perspective as other sectors it's hugely attractive to us from an opportunity to have impact.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot guys.
And we'll go now to Ray Leong with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
It's Tobey Sommer at SunTrust.
I wanted to ask another question about M&amp;A if I could.
Are these larger opportunities or just maybe if you could size them? And I think – I guess you addressed how the enhanced strategy to return capital can dovetail into this but maybe a comment on the balance sheet and if you're happy with the way that's structured now in the context of potential M&amp;A.
Thanks.
I'd say -- I'll start with the first which is the balance sheet.
Where we are from a net leverage perspective where we are from an access to capital perspective and frankly most importantly the cash generating power of the business put us in a great position to do both which is execute on our enhanced capital return strategy and when we see an opportunity that can add value to our business and our members execute on it.
As we've said those things tend to be smaller.
If you sort of look at what we've done historically they tend to be things that complement an existing solution that we can integrate right in or give us access to a new market allow us to scale up a little bit.
They tend to be smaller things that are pretty tightly related to the product roadmaps we have in our core domains.
So I wouldn't put a size on that but I'd say as always they're pretty tightly tied to our product development road maps and fit neatly into what we're planning to do for our customers.
I'd also say that as always the story line on those things tends to be more organic development than inorganic.
But I just wanted to signal that we are in a position to be strategically active and we do see some opportunities and even in the world of valuations that sometimes confuse us for smaller companies there are some good businesses out there that we think over time might be good fits for CEB and can fit comfortably into our platform.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Tom.
And curious about your perspective on the small tuck-ins that you have executed on in the last year or two.
Which ones are performing the best relative to your expectations heading into the deals? Thanks.
I think our hit rate's pretty good on these.
In many respects we're at our best when we are finding something that meets the need of a customer we're already talking to.
I'll just use Neuron as an example from last year.
We had heard again and again and again about workforce planning as a key issue almost a gap between the CFO and the head of HR where there is a missing piece in their business planning system that they were eager to make progress on.
So we had a super clear view of a felt need.
We had a variety of open conversations with customers and we were able to very quickly take a small but powerful asset wrap it with some CEB service and distribution capacity and showcase it to a much much larger market than an independent company would have been able to get to on its own.
So that'd be a great example of one way in which M&amp;A activity from a tuck-in basis creates value is taking something that is growing at a healthy rate but can only reach so many HR departments and exposing it very quickly to a broad array of HR organizations through both our sales channel and marketing channels.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And we have no additional questions on the telephone at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Terrific.
Thank you.
And thanks to everybody again for calling and/or logging in.
I'll close the call by summarizing my earlier remarks.
We're off to a solid start in 2015.
Our first quarter performance puts us in a position to achieve our revenue and profit goals for 2015 on a constant currency basis.
Thanks for calling and logging in.
Rich and I look forward to keeping many of you up to date and seeing you live over the next few months.
We'll be at the JPMorgan event in May the Blair event in June and on the road a couple of times during the quarter.
I'll make one plug again for our annual Investor Day on June 18 at our Arlington Virginia offices.
As always this event is a unique opportunity to engage more deeply with our people and our leadership team see and touch our products firsthand and engage with our brand and how we bring it to market.
Thanks and we look forward to keeping you updated on the CEB story throughout 2015.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation.