Good morning.
And welcome to CEB's Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded and will be available for replay beginning today and through August 6th by dialing (719) 457-0820.
The replay pass code is 9211973.
The replay will also be available beginning later today and through August 6th at the company's website.
To the extent any non-GAAP financial measures discussed in today's call you will also find a reconciliation of that measure to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated according to GAAP by going to the company's website and reviewing yesterday's news release.
You'll also find a PDF of the supporting materials that the company will use in its prepared remarks this morning by going to the company's website and following the link to the second quarter [2014] [ph] earnings conference call.
Please review the second page of these materials which includes important information about any forward-looking information included in the presentation.
This conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including statements among others regarding CEB's expected quarterly and annual financial performance for fiscal 2015 or beyond.
For this purpose any statements made during this call are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.
Without limiting the foregoing discussions of forecast estimates targets plans beliefs expectations and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
You're hereby cautioned that these statements may be affected by important factors among others set forth in CEB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the second quarter news release.
Consequently actual operations and results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
At this time for opening remarks I'd like to turn the conference over to the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr.
Tom Monahan.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks everyone for calling and/or logging in today.
We appreciate the opportunity to bring up to the speed on the continued impact growth and profitability of the business.
I'll kick off the call with some summary comments about our performance in the quarter.
Rich will then provide a more detailed discussion of our financial results and outlook for the remainder of the year.
I'll then close with a look at go-forward strategic priorities before we take your questions.
I'll begin my remarks on slide three.
In summary our performance at midyear was mixed but after some choppy Q2 we are back on track and well-positioned for a solid second half.
To good we saw real progress on scaling into our profit targets.
Materially and permanently improved our tax position and saw very strong advancement on hiring ramps in the quarter.
We also delivered on several of our major tech projects for the year and progress some smaller tuck-in acquisitions.
And of course we continue to implement our enhanced capital return strategy as outlined at the beginning of the year.
On the other hand some bookings slipped from the quarter due largely to two factors I discussed at Investor Day.
As a result that the midpoint of the year our overall bookings are tracking more towards the mid single-digit range than the double-digit range we have targeted for the full year.
The two reasons I discussed the first that I mentioned that we are seeing more competition for CEB caliber talent particularly in filling our entry-level sales and service rules while these folks don’t carry quotas they are hugely important in giving our top performers in the field leverage on service and selling activity.
And importantly they are the lifeblood of future talent for the organization.
The good news is that unlike quota bearing sales and account managers they have a very short ramped the productivity since they leaned in and immediately support our senior talent when facing off against customers and prospects.
We came out of Q1 with a gap here but we are optimistic that we could work to quickly fill these rules while working around any remaining staffing shortfalls but we weren’t able to get all the way there.
While our recruiting team did a heroic job working to close these gaps we won’t really have the full team on the fields until Q3.
This obviously affected our ability to grow at our target rate in the quarter.
The second challenge is a bit of a dark lighting inside of silver cloud.
The key enabler of our long-term growth is working to link our rich resources into compelling broad solutions for members and clients.
The good news is that our teams have been creative in customizing new larger offerings that bundle resources from our best practice and talent management in business areas to some of our biggest members.
The bad news is that given the scale and complexity of these opportunities we saw some large deals slipped in the quarter.
Given the strength of our existing team the scale of the opportunity in front of us and the great new hires we've been welcoming all summer.
I am highly confident that we will restore momentum in the second half.
Most of our teams still have their rise on their annual targets so we will be well set up for 2016 as well.
And importantly we fully expect to maintain our margin adjusted EPS and capital allocation plans for the year.
But given projected timing of bookings we lose revenue from the year.
Rich will talk a little bit more about how the shift in bookings timing flows through the rest of the year.
Before I hand the call to Rich let me offer some additional color in the quarter.
Due to a geographic wins the staffing gaps were concentrated primarily in North America so unsurprisingly we saw the greatest booking challenges in the quarter there.
By and larger our EMEA and Asia PAC teams have solid first half performance and appeared very well-positioned to continue their progress in the second half.
In particular our Australia and New Zealand team is making great progress across the business as they prove out the benefits of a more integrated sales and service approach.
In the CEB segment the staffing shortfall disproportionately affected our ability to generate new bookings.
In general we were bit short on the talent needed to engage new accounts and cross-sell into some segments of our product lines while price increases and renewal rates trended largely within historical patterns.
The other steps we have taken to accelerate hiring we continue to focus on how we align for growth at our largest customers and with our largest opportunities.
The SHL segment had a solid bookings quarter but with the continued transition to subscription revenue model there was a bit of a headwind on in-quarter revenues.
Overall we are also pleased with the continued progress on margin normalization.
More broadly we are seeing the progress we want on the margin front.
Rich will get into more detail here but the headline numbers are a mix of continued scaling and normalization and some timing shifts to match that in staffing and bookings.
The larger takeaway from the quarter is that we're on track to meet our margin targets.
Finally let me spend a moment on capital allocation.
Our strong cash position and solid bookings allows us to continue our higher levels of capital return and at the same time keep our eyes open for strategic opportunities.
We are pleased that through the first half we have already returned nearly $40 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.
Late in Q2 and early in Q3 you also saw us take action on a couple of tuck-in assets to augment our product roadmap and position in key markets.
In summary we have made progress in some key areas but also have a couple of gaps and execution that caught up to us in the quarter.
Given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we are holding ourselves to a high standard execution and focus as the year unfolds.
Let me now hand the call to Rich to discuss a detailed view of our financial performance and outlook for the year.
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone.
Please turn to slide four for a summary recap of our financials.
Revenue was $232 million in the second quarter of 2015 an increase of 0.7% on a year-over-year basis adjusted margin was 25.9% compared to 24.2% in the second quarter of 2014 diluted earnings per share was $0.69 compared to a loss of $0.19 in the second quarter of 2014 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was a $1.19 versus $0.81 in the comparable prior year quarter.
Now let’s turn to slide five and I'll review our key operating metrics for the quarter.
CEB segment contract value at June 30 was $667.6 million which is up 4.1% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis contract value growth was 6.3%.
These growth rates reflect the slower bookings momentum that Tom referenced in his opening remarks.
Constant currency CEB segment Wallet retention rate was 96% versus 99% a year ago.
SHL Talent Measurement segment Wallet retention rate was 102% versus 104% last year.
We continue to view Wallet retention rates in the high 90s and low 100s as both normal and supportive of ongoing growth in the business.
Total CEB segment member institutions grew 3% to 6 983 in the second quarter reflecting continued growth in the CEB segment middle-market and large corporate memberships.
CEB segment contract value per member institution on a constant currency basis was $97.4 thousand at June 30 which is a 3.2% year-over-year increase reflecting the mix of middle market and large corporate members.
To illustrate this affect CEB segment contract value per institution was $146 000 for large corporate members and $30.8 thousand in middle-market representing annual increases of 1.1% and 4.9% respectively.
Please turn now to slide six and I'll review key segment highlights for the quarter.
CEB segment adjusted revenue was $181.8 million in the second quarter an increase of 2.7% versus the second quarter of 2014.
On a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted revenue growth was 4.6%.
As compared to the prior year SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue declined 8.3% to $50.9 million in the second quarter but on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted revenue growth was positive 1.4%.
Consolidated operating expenses declined on a year-over-year rate basis reflecting the impact of foreign exchange staff vacancies and other expense timing delays.
As compared to the second quarter of 2014 cost of services decreased $1.6 million member relations and marketing expense decreased $1.5 million and general and administrative cost decreased $1 million.
Interest income and other was a net expense of $5.4 million in the second quarter of 2015 as compared to net expense of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2014 driven primarily by a larger net non-operating foreign currency loss.
As a reminder we remove the impact of net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses from our non-GAAP financial measures.
Interest expense in the second quarter was $4.8 million compared to $4.5 million in the second quarter of 2014.
As previously disclosed in June we completed a $250 million offering of new eight-year senior notes while simultaneously amending our credit facility.
The combination of the notes offering and the amended credit facility diversifies our capital structure increases liquidity and extends debt maturities.
While this transaction provides greater long-term certainty in a rising interest rate environment in the near-term we expect our annualized net interest expense to increase by approximately $3.5 million.
In addition we recorded $4.8 million of debt extinguishment costs in the second quarter which has been excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures.
In the CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 27.4% reflecting modest revenue gains paired with the favorable cost impact of slower staffing expense management and certain timing delays.
In this segment the favorable foreign currency impact on expenses offset the related revenue headwinds and provided a net 30 basis point boost to adjusted EBITDA margin.
Accordingly on a constant currency basis CEB segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been 27.1% in the second quarter of 2015 versus 26.2% in the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EBITDA margin for the SHL Talent Measurement segment was 20.8%.
Margins in this segment continue to normalize as operating expense growth slows.
The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating profit reduced adjusted EBITDA margin by approximately 110 basis points in this segment.
And so on a constant currency basis SHL Talent Measurement segment adjusted EBITDA margin would have been approximately 21.9% in the second quarter of 2015 versus 17.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
Depreciation and amortization in the second quarter was $16.9 million a decrease of $1.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2014 due to the impact of foreign currency and the reduced amortization of PDRI intangibles.
The provision for income taxes was $700 000 in the second quarter and the effective tax rate was 2.9% versus the benefit of June 25.4% in the second quarter of 2014.
During the quarter we availed ourselves of certain government provided tax incentives.
And as a result we both generated one-time benefits and as Tom said permanently lowered our core tax rate going forward.
While the details of these initiatives can be complicated to explain let me share three high-level takeaways for your analytical purposes.
First our core tax rate for 2015 that is before this year’s one-time benefits is now expected to range between 35% and 37% as compared to 41% in 2014.
Second our effective tax rate for 2015 including the one-time benefits is expected to be between 30% and 32%.
And third our core tax rate for 2016 is currently expected to range from 34% to 36%.
Please turn to slide seven for balance sheet and cash flow highlights.
We remain in a healthy financial position with $124.1 million of cash at June 30.
Accounts receivable were $195.5 million and the current portion of deferred revenue was $441.6 million.
As compared to the prior year deferred revenue increased 3.1%.
And on a constant currency basis the deferred revenue growth rate moderated somewhat to 5.5% as a result of slower than planned second quarter bookings.
We ended the quarter with $493.3 million of debt on the balance sheet which is net of the related issuance costs and our ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was approximately 1.4 times.
Additionally we have access to $239 million of undrawn availability under our revolver.
Cash flows from operations during the first six months of 2015 were $85.3 million a decrease of 5.4% compared to 2014 primarily driven by the timing of cash tax payments versus the prior year.
We expect this impact to normalize in the second half and that operating cash flow for the full year will be consistent with historical patterns.
Year-to-date we have spent $13.4 million on capital expenditures and we also used $5.8 million of cash to purchase Sunstone Analytics and have deployed $2.6 million against several cost method investments.
We continue to focus on cash distribution given the attractive margin and cash flow characteristics of our business.
And for the first six months of 2015 we paid $25.1 million in dividends and repurchased $12.6 million of stock consistent with the approach we outlined earlier this year.
Given the quality of our business models we continue to have ample liquidity both to return capital to shareholders via our enhanced dividend and share buyback while also remaining strategically active as great opportunities arise.
Please turn to slide eight and we will move onto our outlook.
The following comments are intended to fall under the Safe Harbor provisions outlined at the beginning of the call and reflect assumptions which are subject to change.
As Tom said at the beginning of today's call our teams are working hard to restore bookings momentum in the second half of the year.
However our first half bookings will have an impact on full year revenue and we are modifying our outlook accordingly.
We now expect our full year 2015 adjusted revenue to be between $935 million and $950 million and that the reduction in revenue from the deferred revenue fair value adjustment will be approximately $2 million.
So the GAAP revenue outlook is $933 million to $948 million.
We continue to expect full year 2015 adjusted EBITDA margin of between 25.5% and 26% which would represent a 50 to 100 basis point improvement compared to 2014 adjusted EBITDA margin of 25% using our revised definition that excludes net non-operating foreign currency gains and losses.
Depreciation and amortization in 2015 is expected to be between $68 million and $70 million and capital expenditures are now anticipated to be between $30 million and $32 million consistent with our target range of 3% to 4% of revenue.
As I mentioned just a few moments ago we currently expect the full year 2015 effective tax rate including one-time benefits to be between approximately 30% and 32%.
Of course the tax provision is subject to a number of other uncertainties including the impact of foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses discrete items that are not currently recognizable under US GAAP and the global allocation of income across tax jurisdictions.
Incorporating all of these factors in 2015 we now expect non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to range from $3.65 to $3.90.
Please note that our 2015 outlook also incorporates updated foreign currency exchange rates.
In particular the guidance assumes an average exchange rate of about $1.55 to British pound $1.11 to the euro and $0.78 to the Australian dollar.
As currencies continue to move throughout the year the impact of FX remains an important factor influencing where we land in our guidance ranges especially for revenue.
These topline exposures are somewhat mitigated by natural cost offsets and the degree to which our currency hedging program reduces a portion of the volatility that flows through the earnings.
Finally while we do not provide quarterly guidance here are some thoughts on sequential trends to expect throughout the rest of the year.
Assuming foreign currency rates remain relatively constant the combination of slower first half bookings in the CEB segment and typical seasonality in the SHL segment will likely mean flat to slightly higher sequential revenue in the third quarter.
Sequential revenue growth should then be stronger in the fourth quarter.
We expect the run rate impact of this year staffing activity will emerge more fully in the third quarter and continue into the fourth quarter.
When combined with the revenue ramp just described these expense trends are likely to produce sequential margin declines in the third quarter before improving again in the fourth quarter.
As just discussed given that the second quarter tax provision reflected several one-time impacts in addition to ongoing benefits our tax rate will be higher in the second half of the year.
Accordingly the combination of sequentially lower margin and a sequentially higher tax rate will mean that non-GAAP diluted earnings per share will show a meaningful sequential decline in the third quarter followed by solid sequential growth in the fourth quarter.
That concludes the financial summary.
I will now turn the call back over to Tom to review our strategic priorities.
Thanks Rich.
I will close the formal remarks with an update in our strategic priorities.
We made solid progress in a couple of priorities you see listed on the slide nine and obviously have work to do on others.
These are multiyear and multifaceted efforts so let me show a few highlights on each our focus in particular on market touch points and talent priorities.
I will start on slide 10 by discussing must have insights into talent technology customers and risk.
Our perennial goal is to develop powerful insights into the drivers of corporate performance and functional performance.
These insights are the foundation of our business and power everything we do.
During the first six months of the year we introduced a comprehensive slate of new insights in each of our domain areas.
Not surprisingly much of our work addressed the pressing challenge of recruiting managing and retaining scarce and highly skilled talent.
Importantly we also introduced new resources that allow executives to efficiently take action from our insights.
One great example which you can see on the right hand side of the slide is the CEB Ignition Diagnostic.
We highlighted this resource at our Investor Day which allows executives to benchmark performance for their function and provides the blueprint for executives to enhance their functional effectiveness.
In the second half of 2015 we will continue to share our insights with our vast executive network through our live and digital channels.
I will discuss our second priority powerful market touch points on slide 11.
The simple goal here is to be easy to do business with even as our offerings grow.
This is important area for us as we change how we work with our largest customers whose rapid growth with us has been one of the real drivers of our growth and is a key driver of our go forward strategy.
As I noted we have a lot of work to do make it easier for our members to take advantage of a much broader set of relevant resources.
Importantly we’re going to make sure that great teams in the field can more easily navigate internally so as to rapidly and efficiently bring the right resources to bear across increasingly complex customer relationships.
We have taken a number of near-term steps to simplify life for field teams including additional investments in supporting technology in our inbound service centers.
But from a frontline managers on up my management team and I need to stay very focused on making sure that our great account and sales teams have the proper support and freedom to spend their time doing what they do best directly engaging the market.
We are making progress everywhere but most notably in those key markets where we have aligned all sales and service activity under one key leader.
I have spoken previously about the entries week flow we’ve seen from this approach.
We see ample opportunity for member impact in the future.
Our Australia New Zealand business is perhaps the flagship for these efforts and we saw this translate into another solid quarter for that team.
This aligned approach also sets us up well as we increase our presence in that key market through the acquisition of Ceo Forum Group.
CEO Forum operates a membership-based executive network that exclusively targets senior-most executives in Australian operations of multinational companies.
This is a great example of a tuck-in deal that helps us build scale in the key geographic market.
There is very little overlap between our customer bases.
So we immediately expanded our installed member-based in Australia and now have an even larger platform for cross-sells of our product suite.
While we see real opportunity further growing our presence in the region through the acquisition CEO Forum won’t materially impact our financials this year.
This business has been around since the early 1990s and we've known and partnered with leadership team for a long time.
We are delighted to welcome them to the CEB family and are very excited about our growing presence in the Australia and New Zealand market.
Please turn slide 12 for an update on our third priority high-impact analytic and content platforms.
Our goal is to embed our insights into the workflow of the leaders and professionals we serve.
We will do that by providing our content and analytics through intuitive interfaces that allow executives to quickly get an answer and then take action.
We made important progress on numerous fronts in enhancing our technology platforms.
First we’ve continue the build out of our TalentCentral platform to service the next-generation interface for our assessment and talent management offerings.
So far we’ve migrated about 1 300 clients this year tracking ahead of our planned rollout.
Second we reached a major milestone in upgrading our member digital channels in our leadership counsels business.
We've introduced a platform that supports more tailor delivery of our content across multiple types of mobile and static devices and significantly enhances the functionality of all of our member websites.
In the near-term these enhancements have already increased frequency of use which leads to renewal and cross-selling opportunities.
More importantly this new content management capability will enable much more rapid revolution -- evolution of our online feature set.
And third we added new technology capabilities through our acquisition of Sunstone analytics.
Sunstone is an early-stage business that uses machine learning to instantly screen resumes and job applications as well as any other unstructured data for candidate attributes that correlate the business outcomes.
This big data capability further enhances our selection and assessment offerings.
I will provide an update on our fourth priority compelling careers for top talent on slide 13.
Simply put: attracting retaining and developing top talent is a fundamental enabler of CEB's growth strategy.
As I mentioned in my opening talent gaps in our entry level sales and service support roles directly impacted our bookings we met during the quarter.
While we continue to see strong talent metrics across the majority of roles of the firm we’ve been facing particularly strong competition for CEB caliber talent in these early career roles.
You can imagine that as the economy has improved the employment options for top tier recent university graduates have dramatically increased.
And while we've always prided ourselves on CEB being a great place to start a career we were little slow to make sure the overall recruiting value proposition and career experience kept pace with the needs of this key population.
We spotted this problem in time to adapt our strategy for the campus recruiting cycle and made some tweaks to compensation and role design that allowed us to compete more effectively.
As a result of our recruitment efforts we have the strongest and largest class of these folks in our entry-level commercial talent roles starting this summer.
But we were unable to close the earlier year gap inside the impact to first half bookings.
Even as we welcome this great new talent our work is just beginning.
It’s on me and my management team to not only ensure that we quickly ramped people to productivity but that we engaged in the mission and values of the company to lay the groundwork for successful runs at CEB.
It is early days as many of these classes are just starting.
But based on the caliber of talent I’m seeing we are well setup for both short-term impact and longer-term contribution.
Finally please turn to slide 14 for an impact on our fifth priority a brand that signals unmatched impact.
Our goals here stretch across multiple fronts the first of which is simplifying and clarifying our messages.
In the quarter we took an important step in updating our web and e-mail domains to cebglobal.com to better represent our corporate brand.
This is the powerful step as it helps us increase our brand power drives search engine optimizations and ultimately significantly enhances our lead generation efforts.
We also continue to build our reputation for thought leadership through a strong PR and social media program including feature mentions in the Wall Street Journal New York Times Washington Post and Forbes.
In the second half of 2015 we will continue these efforts and also host several large scale conferences that will gather and engage thousands of executives.
So to summarize my remarks on slide 15 we’ve made progress on some key areas but also have a couple of gaps in execution that caught up to us in the quarter.
Given the opportunity immediately in front of us and our expectations for the year we are holding our self to a high standard of execution and focus as the year unfolds.
We will now take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
I guess I look at the obvious one out of the way how do you have an Investor Day with 12 days less than the quarter and really don't allude to any of this and then we find out that bookings have really slowed that you missed revenue despite sounding responding to a question and saying you felt fine with where the street numbers were.
It’s a real head scratcher.
Hey Gary.
Looking back to the investor day materials we talked about topline shop on our ramps.
And the issue we pointed out as we talked about in investor day we saw some staffing chop.
We knew that was a real issue.
We are pretty clear about the challenges we faced but we also had 12 days left in the quarter and our teams were doing a great job of trying to work around those gaps and bring deals into the quarter.
And obviously on the deal front when deal slip they slip late.
So these were things we were hoping to pull into the quarter that we were not able do.
They select later in the year.
So where we were standing on that day we laid out at least the nature of the challenges but our teams are working very hard to get to our original set of commitments and just couldn’t get all the way there.
Okay.
And then just a question on each of the businesses.
So I hear you on the staffing at CEB but what happened at SHL? Why such weakness there in the organic or the constant currency growth and why such sharp deceleration? Most of that -- the staffing issue does creep up and hit them a little bit too because we recruit for that population as one company and some of the deals stuff hit them.
But most of that's just the ongoing transition to subscription based business where pieces of new business that used to come in as revenue now come in as bookings and get amortized and recognized over a longer period of time.
So that will create some here and there near-term headwinds.
We actually saw a solid bookings growth across the first half of the year in that business.
So we think we are pretty bolstered up into the future.
And we are obviously trying to moderate that a little bit but we have encouraged the team is to go out and build the subscription business.
So we want to be careful not to send the mix message onto the field.
I mean given the moving parts here can you quantify the bookings in the first half for the second quarter? Well I think if you look at kind of the way we reduced our guidance and that's essentially consistent with what the bookings shortfall was in the quarter.
I guess I’m referring specifically to SHL if it’s transitioned to subscription that's great.
You should have more visibility.
But I mean is that a 5% impact on growth? I guess I’m not -- I am troubling understand the magnitude? There is probably -- there is a couple of other factors as well.
One is -- first we started off with a relatively difficult compare in the quarter.
Second and probably more significantly the subscription trend that Tom was talking about.
And then there were a few things that slipped on that side notwithstanding that it was solid bookings at SHL and given that SHL'S overall revenue base has a slightly higher services component that’s going to have some impact as well if some of those things move from one quarter out later in the year.
Think about the team that's going to ready to get going on June 1st with something that's revenue that doesn't happen in the quarter.
Okay.
And then just one last one.
Can you give us an example to help us understand when you talked about the second issue with the bookings shortfall the complex solutions bundling solutions what’s an example of that just so we can understand exactly what you are referring to there? Thank you.
If you look back in the fourth quarter we talked about a major international bank that have blended where the CFO and their team had put together a package of best practices products assessment products and learning and development products to service multiyear platform for improving the performance of their finance organization.
That was an example to the good where we work with the customer put together a pretty complex set of our resources that lined up perfectly with the key business objective of there's.
We talked about that as a great example in the quarter.
Unsurprisingly customers are excited by trying to do that but that can be a longer process sometimes as different groups get involved and more decision-makers.
It's harder to push some of those things all the way across the finish line.
And that's our loss.
I don’t want to -- it is not a blame the customer thing.
It's a -- we see these opportunities.
We need to make it easier for our teams in the field to collaborate.
We need to make it easier for our teams in the field to get the resources they need to drive those larger opportunities to closure.
That’s me and my management team.
It’s a knowable set of customer behaviors where moving rapidly to better line up against.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Just on a couple of these items the deal slippage.
Do you view it as kind of a learning process or do you think that you are going to have to discount more instead of getting into more complex deal where there is multiple solutions? And just in your own mind Tom as the CEO how long do you feel it will take to kind of work through it so that you have a handle on just in general how long it will take to get these larger deals across the finish line? Yeah.
Some of them just slipped from late June to early July.
So there is natural slippage of a contracting process.
More broadly it’s -- if you just look at the size of our largest customers and the size of the conversations we’re having with them and the number of people from our side who will engage with these customers we’ve got to make it easier for our team to line up and present the unified phase.
I think we’re making good progress on it.
But there is still work to do there.
So I think we’re making progress everyday and simplifying life for the great teams that face off against customers but there is work to do there.
It’s -- I think there is a little learning but it’s more just making -- I think we have our eyes on what we need to do and it’s making those tweaks without disrupting the natural flow of day-to-day sales activity out in the market place.
We don’t want it.
We don’t need to hit pause and rebuild.
We just need to make everyday a little bit better and easier for those teams.
I mean I think we have another companies that get a little bit more mature and then in order to get the next phase of growth they basically go after bigger contracts and things like that.
Do you view that as kind of what’s going on as the company is maturing and it makes more sense to be going after bigger contracts.
This is kind of the next phase that you just have to work to the bombs in migrating in that direction? It’s probably less us going after bigger contracts and more customers saying wow you can do more for us.
Let’s put some of this together with some of this.
The example that I just cited was a great example.
The customer saying look we want to get from point A to point B.
You guys have the roadmap the compass the water bottle we need.
Let’s not have conversations about -- separate conversations about the compass the roadmap and the water bottle let’s get it all together.
So where possible we always prioritize putting ourselves in the position to keep sales cycles short keep deal simple so that individual buyers can choose what they want.
But some customers are saying while I see a broader opportunity here we need to be in a position to respond and help them when they make that request.
Okay.
And then in terms of the junior sales people how hard of a fix is that? I mean do you -- is the compensation issue is it a messaging issue? And how confident are you that it really is an issue with junior people as oppose to some kind of change in the demand environment and maybe the senior people are kind of blaming it on them? No actually this is just math on our end which is we simply didn’t have enough of the right people to give our senior people leverage they needed.
And I’m pretty confident to fix because every Monday I’m meeting with the next starting class of folks that are coming in the front door.
So these are -- these start classes are hired in starting and they have been starting since the beginning of the summer.
So I’m pretty confident on both as the volume and caliber we have great people coming in the front door.
There is work to do from my management team and I in terms of making sure that they have great careers and are excited et cetera but that’s stuff you know how to do.
So I think we’re on the right stuff there.
I think basically what happens in those situations is you’ve senior people spending less time face to face with customers because they have to spend more time doing things that they normally get a little leverage on.
And that’s observable and so the sales pipeline metrics.
So you can actually look and say is this an issue of -- you can look at their activity level and say gosh they are not as levered on some of their core activities as they need to be.
So it’s observable in the pipeline metrics.
It’s most observable in some staffing metrics.
We feel pretty good about where we are now because these are booked and filled and hired people who are starting and we think we’ll have an immediate impact.
I met with everyone who started this summer in number of our offices.
And we’ve got some very high caliber people coming and not a moment too soon.
Does it change the cost profile of the business at all because you have to potentially pay for this kind of caliber talent something that you did not have to pay for a number of years ago or how should we think of that? Not materially.
I mean you’re always -- the phase we use internally is the employment value proposition.
It’s a term we help to follow the talks about with the whole package of things that you do to make a job great for a population you need to succeed.
In compensation certainly part of it and I think we’re competitive about comp but also making sure we’ve got great career paths great experiences great training and developments strong managers in place et cetera.
So we’ve -- I think done some real good work and we’ve obviously got more work to do as these people start.
We’ve done some real good work to make sure that our employment proposition for this population as a whole is quite strong.
Any economic impact fits well within our normal economic model.
All right.
Thank you.
I just want to leave off just repeating that one question.
You’re confident this is not a demand issue it’s really just a kind of bump in the road with these two issues you’re talking about? As we look at our metrics we look and say gosh we just didn’t have enough people to leverage our senior people.
There are things we need to do to help our best people be more successful but I think those are on how -- we didn’t hear anything in my customer travel suggest that there is demand environment change.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
And our next question today will come from Joseph Foresi with Janney.
Hi.
I wonder given obviously the bookings being lower than expected.
Could you break out that -- quantify for us what the impact was from staffing versus large contracts versus I guess the more complex deals.
Just numerically how do you think about where the impact came from from those three areas? The tail is up a little bit because I think if we had some of the large deal stuff was senior people without the leverage that kind of spend time with them.
But I would say on balance two thirds staffing one-third other factors as a big round number.
Okay.
And what do you think I mean you talked about what the growth rate is for the business how quickly this contract value come back and any thoughts on your expectations for what that contract value looks like one quarter from now two quarters from now and going forward? We haven’t seen anything in the market environment that longer term causes us to worry about the normalized 8% to 13% organic growth rate target.
And so our task is obviously don’t get to that revenue number unless you get to have bookings some contract value growth number.
So our task is to get back there as fast as we can.
Folks are starting this quarter.
We’re going to make them as productive as we can.
We’ll keep tweaking our system.
I think you’ll see some of the benefits from things we’re doing in Q3.
You will see more of them flow through in Q4.
And we very much got our ramping very well set up for 2016.
Okay.
And then the last one for me I mean I assume you’ve talked to your customers how the large contracts have got out pushed out had they already been signed or do you feel like there is further delay.
I’m just trying to separate what’s happening in the macro environment with a little bit of uncertainty and staffing large contract commentary when we start to see this tick down? Some of them just literally slipped from late June into early July because of last mile contracting issues and those came in.
Some revenue you get another onboard et cetera but it doesn’t seem to be very much -- one thing we didn’t hear from any client was oh my gosh budgets have changed in the last couple of days of June.
And therefore I’m worried about this going forward.
It was more often wait a minute because this involves this area of the business I need to pull one more person and make sure they are comfortable with the direction we’re going and those -- obviously we need to help our team surface those a little sooner.
So we can move them through a little more quickly.
But we didn’t hear a lot of budgets have changed or priorities have changed.
We heard a lot of one more step type stuff.
I’m going to squeeze one more in.
So no cancellations no changes in the regular revenue run rate no noise among pricing or anything like that? No nothing significant and as Tom said this is -- obviously there was some trough in this quarter.
We’re working to get things back on track as quickly as possible.
And over the long term our overall view in terms of the growth potential and the opportunity in front of us is still very much the same.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Timothy McHugh with William Blair.
Thank you.
I guess just to start on the staffing issue.
Was a turn over I apologize if I missed this -- but did turnover spike up or did you have trouble hiring or I mean how did it come about that you didn’t have enough junior people.
I would assume that’s a fairly consistent measure that you look at? Yeah.
Absolutely.
This is -- as you asked them -- this is really important to our business and really important how we grow the company.
So we’ve always find ourselves on being an employer of choice here due to other great turning programs all the rapid growth progression.
We saw attrition tick up within our normal target ranges and it kicked up at the time of year that is really hard to hire for this group of people in that -- the best performers in these roles are recent college graduates from great universities or great academic records et cetera and the wrong time to need them is early year because you’re just -- obviously the summer is the time when the great university hires coming into the business and mid years -- sorry beginning of the year is a tough tough time to do it.
So attrition kicked up within our target ranges and it happened at the time of the year when we just couldn’t offset that with hiring.
In good term it’s for the good we were able to get out and have a great hiring season on campus.
And therefore we have great strength in our new starts to the summer and our recruiting team did some creative things that really create some great classes that have started or will start at the next week or two.
Do you have a perspective on why their attrition picked up and approach to change that I guess? Yes.
So we call this our employee value proposition employment value proposition.
It ticked up for a pretty simple reason we invest a ton of energy in resource in training folks to be great commercial contributors to our business.
And unsurprisingly every now and then someone says hey rather than having my own sales training program.
Let me see if I can’t price someone lose out of CEBs because they’re fully trained and I have to spend money on that.
And so we saw some activity in the talent markets.
We talked about this as an investment day more competition for this type of talent in the marketplace.
And it caused us to think about roll design comp et cetera and we made some changes both the actual nature of the roll and the structure of the roll but also the experiences we’re giving people.
We think we have a very very very competitive carrier offer right now.
And we feel pretty good about the progress we made.
But it also hinges on my management team and I making sure we don’t lose sight of delivery on that.
And was the increased turnover just that the junior level or have you seen it all in the senior kind of sales people? It was almost exclusively that there is turnover everywhere in the business but well within historical ranges and strong performance everywhere but that population.
So the challenge was confined to that specific population within the business.
Okay.
And then just tie to that the client growth was that middle market or more in the large market did you saw that? Yeah.
If you go down to -- you saw a squint of the business and you say if you have a staffing shortfall in that population we talk about it affects probably most significantly our ability to go get new customers that’s the part of the business that most needs new staff to come in and help us kick open doors make the case for new companies.
And so unsurprisingly with that challenge upstream it was the new institution count downstream that becomes more of a challenge as teams in the field spend more time hunkering down on relationships they have worrying about retention worrying about cost selling et cetera.
And the new portion of what we do tends to come under bit of stress.
And when that happens middle market given where it is in its development it suffers the most right.
There are the group whose growth is still in the early stages of getting that first contract so yeah it was probably disproportionately middle market that as a result of the staffing issues wasn’t able to get in front of those many new executive at new companies as we’ve been able to do in previous quarters.
Okay and then lastly just to make sure I understand this right it sounds like it does.
The underlying comment you are making is that the pipeline as you look at it has grown consistent with what you thought and if you will the win rate when your senior sales people do fully pursue the activities they should do is the same as you have seen historically but they're not having enough at-bats because of the support? Is that the message you are trying to convey here? That’s exactly the message.
Okay.
Thanks.
And we’ll move on to Tobey Sommer with SunTrust.
Thanks.
Among the items that you are adjusting to enhance the career attractiveness to the junior folks.
Is higher compensation one of the elements and if so how does that influence your outlook for margin expansion? Thanks.
Yes.
The whole thing obviously compensation was a place we had to make some tweaks.
Assume that the tweaks we made or in the model and fit completely in the economic model of the company.
Yeah.
I mean you could think of that essentially as one of the investments that we make when we kind of balance between reinvesting in the business and expanding margins.
And so that will be one of the things that’s in the category of investments going forward.
You kind of mentioned in a recent response to question that some companies look at your great training programs okay maybe this is my on boarding ramp from my own folks.
Is there a particular employer or two that are specifically targeting junior folks at CEB? No.
In -- the funny good news is our recapture rate of these folks down the road is pretty good.
So the -- it turns out the grass is not often greener.
So we often get a second opportunity to welcome these folks back into the business.
So they go lots of different places.
We keep track of them.
We have a very active alumni program where we track on folks and get a chance to bring them back.
But there is not like a set of known competitors so much as we’re knowing to be a great place to develop that kind of talent and as a result we -- and we want to be known as a great place to develop that kind of talent.
We think the benefit of that across time is a good thing because you attract great talent and we are in a much better position to give people a great career run here that make sure they don't have any interest in things outside our four walls.
And kind of shifting gears off this topic the contract value per member for SMB type channel was up nicely almost mid single-digit I guess in constant currency? Could you describe kind of provide some color there in the outlook to try to sustain that rate of growth? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean I think that’s obviously a factor of maintaining good [Technical Difficulty] in that base of our members.
Obviously price increases a factor there as well.
And as we've talked in the past sometimes the thing that moderates that contract value per member growth is that we have stronger new customer additions because they tend to come on subscribing to one product.
And so if that falls off a little bit you get a little bit more impact from kind of the renewal price increase and to some extent cross-sell aspects.
And my last question has to do with the on-boarding of the new junior folks new graduates.
Is the yield of people showing up for the first day of work the same as it has been or some people getting additional offers after they've accepted in kind of change in their minds? Thanks.
Yeah.
Very much as we expected.
I think our recruiting team has done a great job re-gearing our offer mobilizing and making sure these folks are coming to work excited.
And it’s -- and the relay baton and gets send it to my management team and I to make sure that from day one first we’re helping them be as productive as they can and secondly opening up the great career for them at CEB.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Hey Rich I’m just trying to kind of square the circle on your third quarter guidance of revenues flat up slightly.
It sounds like it’s not demand issue either SHL or Legacy CEB? And you’ve got some of these contracts that slipped from June into July? I just don’t quite understand the guidance of revenues up slightly just because if all of that would seem like you’re going to get back towards that 8% to 13% medium-term growth pretty quickly? Should we just not expect that for the third quarter and are you just being a little bit -- giving yourself somewhere the room after sort of the 2Q mix? Thanks.
Yeah.
I mean I think it’s -- given where we are right now I mean I think it’s going to be tough for us to get into that range for this year to 8% to 13%.
I think that’s clearly what's implied by our guidance at this point is that we would given what’s happened in the second quarter the importance of -- in your revenue relative to the earlier in the year bookings is just that’s going to be tough.
And I think if you look at just the sequential aspect I mean you would normally expect in the SHL segment revenue is not going to be higher than the second quarter.
I mean that’s the normal sequential trend but you’ve seen in seasonality.
And given that second quarter bookings while we would expect some sequential improvement in CEB segment revenue it’s not likely to be as large as we otherwise would have expected.
Okay.
So there is nothing else in particular around the third quarter that's that to call out? No.
It’s just -- it’s really just mostly the math that results from kind of where we landed the second quarter.
Great.
And just a small one on the CEO Forum in Australia.
Is that now factored into your updated guidance? It is but it’s not material.
I mean as we indicated I think the run rate revenue was about $6 million for the period ending June 30th.
We’re going to have certainly less than a half a year of that revenue.
And so there will be some contribution but it's not going to be a material portion of the story.
Great.
And just what’s the margin profile of that even though it’s small? Yeah.
I mean it historically had margins that were sort of comparable to maybe a little bit below to CEB segment margins.
But this is -- we just closed and we’re certainly not providing full guidance on that part of the business right now.
Great.
Thank you.
And next we will go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yeah.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
The first question I had I was just trying to -- apologize if you are going to be repeating stuff but just for this quarter why is there the slowdown in new hiring impacting this quarter? Wouldn't the numbers for this quarter be done from hiring that you did in the past? In real simple terms these were bookings if you think about the Q3 number as driven by end of Q2 bookings and end of Q2 bookings where we needed them because we didn’t have the staff in place in Q2.
Those staff are here now.
They are either here or on the way here so our impact on Q3 bookings and Q4 bookings is obviously in the future.
But the staffing gap was in Q1 and Q2 which should mean your bookings totals switches Q3 revenue.
So can you -- like is there a way to quantify typically you would have expected x number of new hires and you only got y? I don’t think we‘ve talked much about that.
But you assume it was -- assume the staffing gap was in the North America in somewhere about 50 to 75 range of people which were here working with us when we just didn’t have.
Okay.
And then the second question I had was you talked about some of the bundling and the complexity of the offerings that caused some of this slippage but is that a new bundle my understanding was that these things you at SHL that was the strategy right? To bundle and cross-sell.
And was there like a different element of that or a different strategy something new this time that impacted that sales? No it was exactly that just more of it.
We’ve talked since the SHL acquisition about being deliberately cautious about how much we wanted to focus on just plain old selling what we do versus configuring and selling new opportunities.
We’ve been cautious on that dimension.
We pushed harder on that this year.
We said we are going to do that and unfortunate consequence was we were successful in getting customers interested.
The downside is that some complex deals got a little tangled up in process.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
[Operator Instructions] And we will return to Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes.
Hi.
Just a couple of follow-up ones.
Can you give us a sense in terms of dollars how much of cost didn't happen because of the staffing shortfall or will be pulled into the second half? And I guess that's salaries benefits to the people but also any recruiting cost that shifted.
How should we think about maybe how much you are over-earning from a margin perspective in the first half because of this staffing shortfall? Yeah.
I mean I think certainly we had a benefit on both the sales and marketing line as well as to some degree the cost of services line as we had both staffing shortfalls and then because we were focusing more on getting folks in place deferring some other initiatives until we were fully staffed.
I would say probably you are looking at a lift going from second to third quarter on the sales and marketing line that could be in the $5 million to $6 million range sequentially depending on how that ramps up and the timing of these star classes.
Okay.
And then that’s a new run rate thinking beyond the third quarter? I mean obviously that all factored in that will get a good -- given the timing time laid out that would a lot of the run rate would get into the third quarter but it wouldn't be a full quarter's worth.
So you could see another lift in the fourth quarter as well but much smaller.
And then can you quantify what was the one-time tax benefit versus the new lower tax rate I just multiply pretax income by what you talked about the new tax rate being and take it different or can you tell us exactly how much it was? Yes.
I mean I think you can do that.
I mean I think we have been targeting as we said on our last call 37% to 38% was the range we had for the full year.
And so now the core rate is in more like the 35% to 37% range so that’s kind of the delta there there is kind of ongoing benefit for the year and the rest of that would be the one-time benefits.
So I got to ask.
I guess I would acknowledge upfront definitely given your hard time in asking this but how they held you back out all the one point bad stuff but not backed out the one-time good stiff.
Is this the second time in the last three years there's been a tax benefit that you don't back out? I mean it just seems crazy because number one say you are up for a very tough comp next year.
Number two this is truly a one-time benefit right and it should not be in the adjusted earnings number.
Well I mean I think it’s part of the tax provision it’s not a discrete line item that you can point to like debt extinguishment costs or restructuring costs or anything like that.
I mean I think we’ve had some things move the other way in the past obviously not to that same magnitude whether it's being the impact of foreign exchange moving the other way or other discrete items.
And it’s just not in our practice to adjust for discrete items in the tax provision.
Okay.
I guess that’s the answer.
Thanks a lot.
You’re welcome.
And we do have a follow-up from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Rich can you talk a little bit about how do think about free cash flow for the business for this year? Unusually there's a typically kind of drop-down metric that you used from net income what this was tax is there going to be a straight out cash tax items? Is that something that’s going to drop this year? Can we apply historical kind of drop-down metrics for the company this year and going forward? Yes.
I mean we still think that the ongoing ratio of roughly 1.4 to 1.5 times operating cash flow as a multiple of adjusted net income is the right way to look at it.
I think we certainly given the timing of cash taxes earlier in the year we’re expecting much less cash tax payments in the second half of the year.
So that will provide a benefit to cash flow in the second half of the year.
But generally speaking the ongoing profile in the years to come is in the same range.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we will go to David Ridley-Lane with Bank of America.
Just a quick question on SHL how much of the transition to subscription revenue model how much of a drag is that either in the quarter or what you would expect for the full year? Well like as I said that was one of the factors that that impacted the quarter along with the tougher compare and also some of the slippage of the services revenue.
Is it trying to get to -- is this just more than $10 million or have a single million dollar impact on the transition of the revenue model? I think the best place to put it is just in terms of our overall guidance for the year.
We factored that in in terms of what we’re expecting for the rest of the year on a consolidated basis.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn things back over to Tom Monahan for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us for today's call.
After some chop in Q2 we are well positioned for a solid second half and we look forward to being out on the road and keeping you updated in the CEB story.
In addition to being out on the road we’ll be at the BMO and Deutsche Bank events in September and will be in other places around the country keeping folks up-to-date on the CEB story.
Thanks very much.
And that will conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you everyone for your participation.