Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keena.
And good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected due to certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I will turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
Late last year I characterized fiscal year 2013 as a year of transition.
And this quarter's performance illustrates our progress along that journey.
Our third quarter results once again demonstrate the kind of operating performance that this company is capable of delivering even as we wait for overall revenue growth to return.
So let's start by looking at the sales results.
Revenue came in as expected with 7% Commercial Systems growth or most notably our aftermarket increased 13%.
That growth was offset by the anticipated decline in Government Systems of 11% as the impact of sequestration particularly impacted some of our short-cycle products and order timing.
Now the net effect was a 3% decline in revenue which I believe will represent the low watermark in year-over-year percentage comparisons for both Government Systems and Rockwell Collins overall with improvements beginning in our Q4.
Segment operating margin performance was exceptional across both businesses expanding by 140 basis points up to 22.4% of sales.
In Commercial Systems operating margins were up 340 basis points to 23.4% the third best quarterly margin rate we have ever posted for this business rivaling the rates we saw in 2008.
In Government Systems operating margins were 21.4% down just 40 basis points despite a dramatic sales decline as the benefits of cost reduction actions were able to mostly offset the headwind from our lower revenue.
Our ability to manage through a very dynamic market environment further demonstrates the strength and resiliency of our company's unique and balanced business model.
Now that performance allowed us to increase operating earnings by 3%.
And with the benefits of our share repurchase program we increased earnings per share by 5% to $1.20 a share.
And as we've done throughout the year we had another good quarter with cash flow well ahead of last year.
As we have seen almost continuously over the last 4 or 5 years there are plenty of changes to note this quarter across our served markets.
And let's first look at business jets where at mid-quarter we updated our guidance to incorporate the lower-than-expected production rates assessment.
Even after incorporating these changes we expect our FY '13 business and regional jet OE revenue to increase mid-single digits.
Now that growth is really impressive considering our current expectations for overall business jet deliveries including turboprops is a 2% decline for 2013.
Our strategic efforts over the last decade to better position the company with long-range and midsized business jets is driving the OEM revenue growth even as the light end of the market remains very soft.
Another area that has experienced a lot of volatility this year is the Commercial aftermarket.
First I will remind you that our aftermarket is a bit unique as about 1/2 is non-discretionary maintenance repair and overhaul or MRO while the other 1/2 comes from discretionary activities like spares and retrofits.
At the beginning of the year we plan for a very strong revenue growth across all portions of the aftermarket.
Then last quarter we reduced our guidance for the aftermarket based on weaker-than-expected MRO revenue.
Even though the market has not performed to our original expectations we believe that we now have a better understanding of the factors affecting service and support and here's what we see.
Overall airline traffic is expected to be up about 4% this year at our estimate.
However the airlines are continuing to push the limits of efficiency with load factors running at historically high levels.
This performance coupled with an increasing quantity of new aircraft entering the market is resulting in more aircraft retirements than our original expectations.
We now expect over 500 aircraft retirements this year which is creating a headwind for service and support as the older out-of-warranty aircraft are replaced by newer in warranty.
Moreover some of these retired aircraft are relatively new and are being torn down and sold for spares and for MRO purposes.
This trend is clearly impacting our service and support revenue as well and we expect it to continue for some time into the future.
Now the good news in what is otherwise a negative development is that we have a business called Intertrade which deals exclusively in used aircraft components.
Our Intertrade business is expected to grow more than 10% this year providing some offset to the MRO trends I just described.
Now even with those MRO trends we continue to expect increases in our discretionary aftermarket specifically in spares mandates and retrofits which will drive the majority of the aftermarket growth for us this year.
Now I'd like to shift over to Government where the question on everybody's mind is the implication of sequestration.
About 1/3 of our revenue decline this quarter is because of the implementation of these cuts.
As you would expect we continue to assess order activity anticipated over the balance of the year and compare that against our original estimates for sequestration.
And the news is relatively good.
If you remember in our original guidance we projected approximately $120 million of sequestration impact this year.
Based on our most recent assessment we now believe that the impact will be closer to $70 million and now anticipate our defense revenue will be down 7% in FY '13 compared to our original guidance of 10%.
So based on our performance in the first 3 quarters we remain confident that we will meet or exceed the midpoint of our previous revenue guidance and have increased our expectations for both earnings and cash flow toward the top end of the respective ranges.
As we look ahead to the end of the year I believe we will have effectively navigated this year of transition and taken the steps necessary to position the company for long-term growth.
With that let me now hand the call over to Pat for a review of the financial results.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through to today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the third quarter of 2013.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company third quarter sales EPS net income and shares.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased 3% compared to last year's sales while net income declined 1% to $164 million.
Improved operating performance and the continued focus on returning capital to shareowners earnings per share in the quarter increased $0.06 or 5% to $1.20.
Turning to Slide 4 we have the third quarter results of Commercial Systems which achieved revenue of $563 million in 2013 up 7% from $526 million in 2012.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $14 million or 5% to $309 million primarily resulted from increased deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Challenger aircraft a full quarter of production of Beechcraft King Air turboprops.
These were partially offset by fewer deliveries to Cessna.
Aftermarket sales increased $27 million or 13% to $235 million due to higher sales of spares in both the air transport and business jet markets and increased mandate revenue.
Commercial Systems had great earnings performance this quarter as its operating earnings increased 26% to $132 million with operating margins expanding 340 basis points to 23.4%.
The increase in operating earnings and margins were primarily due to higher sales volume and lower company-funded R&amp;D expense.
Moving on to Slide 5.
Government Systems revenues decreased by 11% to $602 million in 2013.
The reduction was due to the impacts of sequestration mostly in our communication products the completion of certain development programs lower fighter jet-related sales and the reduction in GPS product sales.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased sales in areas such as network communications and international sales.
Looking specifically at our product categories sales of avionics decreased as expected by $52 million or 13% driven by headwinds from development programs simulator award delays and lower sales for fighter aircraft.
Communication product sales declined $25 million or 14% primarily due to fewer deliveries of satellite communication and data link products partially offset by increased deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface Solutions sales increased $12 million or 24% from increased international sales of FireStorm targeting systems.
And finally sales of navigation products declined by $12 million or 21% resulting from fewer deliveries of our handheld GPS receivers.
Government Systems' third quarter operating earnings decreased $19 million to $129 million resulting in operating margins of 21.4%.
The decreased operating earnings and margins resulted from lower sales volume which was partially offset by the benefit from cost-reduction actions taken over the past year.
Looking to Page 6 we show year-to-date results for revenue net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the third quarter we've generated $309 million of cash compared to $192 million last year.
The increased cash generation resulted from lower incentive compensation payments as well as improved inventory performance and lower tax payments.
Slide 7 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the third quarter of the year.
Total spend remained relatively consistent at 20.5% of sales.
Company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed development efforts related to a certain next-generation business jet programs.
Meanwhile we increased investment in preproduction engineering programs predominantly related to the Boeing 737 Max program.
Moving to Slide 8 we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the third quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $563 million of long-term debt we had $602 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due within the next 12 months.
Now we ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 49% and debt-to-EBITDA of 1.1.
I feel that this level of debt continues to provide us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs.
And I do expect it to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the third quarter is detailed on Slide 9.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares at an average cost of $63.72 per share and we repurchased 7% of our outstanding shares over the past 12 months.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 85 million shares or $4.2 billion return to shareholders through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
As of the end of the quarter we have $473 million remaining and we expect this authorization to fund our repurchases for the balance of 2013 and into 2014.
I'd like to turn now to our final slide Slide 10 where we provide the details of our fiscal year 2013 financial guidance.
As Clay outlined before we are narrowing our guidance to the middle of our original sales guidance at $4.65 billion for the year and expect Commercial Systems to be up 5% but we've actually increased our expectations for Government Systems and it will only be down about 7%.
Based on operating cash performance to-date we are increasing earnings per share expectations toward the top end of our range to between $4.55 and $4.60 and our cash flow guidance to be about $600 million.
Finally we are slightly adjusting our expectations for capital spending for the year to $125 million from our original expectation of $140 million based on lower-than-expected spend through the first 3 quarters.
All other aspects of our financial guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So I'd now like to turn it back -- turn the call back over to Clay for some closing remarks.
Thanks Pat.
Well as most of you know this is my last earnings call before I retire in just a few days.
At times like this it's hard not to think back to the beginning of our journey as a new public company which began 12 years ago this month.
For all of us at Rockwell Collins the summer of 2001 was filled with the excitement and optimism that usually accompanies an IPO.
However we had no idea how the world would change or impact our business starting just 10 weeks later on 9/11 and frankly extending over the balance of the decade.
I'll spare you the walk down memory lane and the associated war stories but suffice it to say these were interesting times that presented both opportunities and challenges that tested our company structure judgment leadership and resiliency.
Along the way we had great successes as well as a few disappointments.
And I'll leave it up to you and history to judge the overall result.
All I'll say is we did the best we could to serve all our stakeholders and position this company for success no matter what cards we were dealt.
So let me close with 2 final thoughts.
First I want to thank all of you who invested both your time and your treasure in our company along the way.
Unlike some CEOs I actually enjoyed all well almost all of my interactions with analysts and investors.
You've supported us challenged us made numerous suggestions and provided great insights all of which helped make us a better company.
And to those of you who have put your trust and money in Rockwell Collins we are profoundly grateful and we'll always work to retain that trust.
Which leads to my final thought.
I leave having never been more optimistic about the future of this company.
It has secured great market positions that will be in an annuity for years to come.
It is a financial stalwart with abundant flexibility to deploy capital in very value creating ways.
It has a value system that prizes the highest standards of integrity and has demonstrated the kind of focus that puts customers and investors above self.
And it is blessed with the quality of leadership that will ensure that we not only proceed full speed ahead through this transition but we'll meet the inevitable future challenges with experience and resolve.
I have every confidence that Kelly Ortberg and his talented experienced team will take Rockwell Collins to new heights and ensure it achieves its full potential.
Thank you all for your support over the years.
And with that I'd like to open the Q&amp;A session.
So operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess my question is on defense and I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit more about Government Systems in terms of why you believe this is the low watermark in terms of what gets better.
And related to it in the past at some of the conferences you've talked about the down 5% to 10% next year.
Now that you're going to end this year at a higher level is that still how you're thinking about next year? Well first thing I think the immediate fourth quarter is going to be better because of that 11% down I'd say about $25 million of it was surely order timing that didn't come in as we had expected it to this third quarter that we've already got the order and it's going to slip over into fourth quarter.
If you were to normalize that it would have been more like an equitable 7 7.
So we have a little benefit actually from the delay that's going to help us next quarter and that's what gives me confidence there.
Relative to next year obviously it's way too early to call that because we still have a lot yet to learn and know about what the Pentagon is doing relative to sequestration what both Houses of Congress are going to do relative to the '15 budget.
But I think all in well -- and I should say heck we call fourth quarter and I think that's pretty aggressive.
But I'd say all in what we do is we look at next year and I think the defense will still be down but it won't be down at the level we saw this year.
I really do believe that most of the lower-level supply chain folks Tier 1 Tier 2 have taken a brunt of the cut so far.
And eventually we're going to see some of the major OEM cuts come through to resolve the budgets they have there.
Now no question some of that will trickle down to us.
But I don't think it will be any worse than it was this year even if you calendarize it through the year.
The second thing that gives me even more confidence is remembering this year of transition we had probably about $100 million of headwind just from programs that are transitioning.
Those programs so far are all still alive and seemed to enjoy a lot of support and they'll be moving from this transitionary period of finishing development moving into production and we'll see actually a tailwind for some portion of that.
And so as I kind of look out to next year and frame it I see some uppers I see some natural downers.
And so we've estimated sequestration I think as accurate as anybody has this year.
And as we look at sort of what we think the general environment is for next year and what it's likely to be that is the -- I will say the macro view I'm basing that statement on.
So yes I think Government System will be down next year not as much as it was down this year.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit about R&amp;D at a high level? Are we at the tail end of a long long investment cycle and this is kind of the benefits we're going to reap or is there something related to timing here? Because if I look just isolated to company spend it looks like the full year could be down $40 million year-on-year $35 million to $40 million year-on-year which is obviously better than you were anticipating at the start of the year.
So is this a headwind for '14 or is this more efficient use of R&amp;D? Well I got some guys scrambling around the room to look and see if we can confirm or deny your estimate on the year.
But while they're doing that let me say that in my view I think it's just a timing issue.
Specifically what we're seeing this quarter is a sort of a wind down of I'll say the product line Pro Line Fusion work.
It will still have a lot of R&amp;D going in the application of Pro Line Fusion to the roughly 15 platforms we're working on.
But that's a good portion of what the company funding is down.
However what we're seeing is a ramp-up of the Max funding.
But remember that's all deferred.
And so total R&amp;D spend this quarter actually went up but it's just in 2 different buckets because of the reduction in this company discretionary or expensed R&amp;D and the deferred R&amp;D that's going into the new projects.
I believe when you look at R&amp;D all in which is what we do R&amp;D will continue to be flat or a little bit increased if the company is successful.
If you look at the mix of R&amp;D you are seeing a decline in the discretionary portion and an increase this year and next in the deferred portion.
The other thing I'd add Myles is as we look kind of sequentially quarter-to-quarter we are expecting to see an uptick in R&amp;D on the Commercial side of the business just really due to the timing of certain programs.
Your next question comes from Richard Safran Buckingham Research.
I've got a question on sort of on opportunities.
So Boeing looks like it's set to launch the 777X later this year.
I want to know if you could possibly discuss here what you might see as the incremental opportunities for share gains? For example if Boeing were to go to an SFE model for the 777X would you see that as a possible benefit to you? I think it could be Rich.
It's probably premature for me to talk specifics about what the opportunities are but if you look at our last 2 or 3 runs in the air transport competitions we fared pretty well in picking up market share.
So I like our chances just based on historicals.
But on the 777 as I've said before on this call a lot of it depends on what Boeing chooses to do specifically with the avionics systems and there are 2 very distinct architectural approaches that they are studying and they could look at.
I think we have opportunities regardless of which architecture they pick but 1 architecture obviously pouring [ph] over the 787 components and the basic flight systems of 787 present a little bit higher opportunity for us.
So yes I would say net we have market share opportunity hard at this point until we get the architecture nailed down to say specifically what and how much.
Your next question comes from Joe Nadol JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on cash flow and what's changed.
It was really nice to see the guidance go up particularly in the operating cash flow side.
Patrick you mentioned the inventory's trend for the last couple of years had been going the other way.
So it's definitely nice to see that go up.
What's changed in the plan for the year? And as you look forward into next year how -- any initial sense on how we can think about conversion trends from earnings and cash flow? Joe what I would say is that the 2 biggest changes from the plan -- the original plan one is a lower deferred R&amp;D spending.
We talked about that probably for the last 2 quarters and specifically related to that 737 Max spending and the ramp-up of that.
The other area that we saw benefit on is in the R&amp;D tax credit.
We got the benefit of that not only the P&amp;L benefit but the cash flow benefit from the lower R&amp;D tax credit.
Now with that said I'd also say that we've pretty much hit our numbers with respect to working capital.
So we've been able to flow all of that good news to cash flow for the year.
Now as it relates to the trend for next year I would say there's a -- I would put the cash flow conversion pretty much at a par with this year.
And the big swinger is always pension contributions and deferred spending.
And as we see deferred spending next year it's going to be probably flat to slightly down.
And I wouldn't anticipate pension contributions to be much different than they were this year.
So I think our conversion for '14 will be about the same as this year and then improving thereafter as the deferred investment comes down.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on Commercial OE 2 quick things.
First if you could talk about the flattish air transport growth there and how you expect that to trend as your new programs come online.
Of course there was a tough comp from last year.
And then going back to the 777X that Rich asked about I'm wondering if the 2 different architectures it looks like in both cases you increased share.
It seems like the difference would be a system that has your displays versus a system that has your displays and flight management just based on what we think we learned in Paris.
And so perhaps you could characterize what your content would look like under those scenarios versus your actual content on Max and 787.
Sure.
Well to your first question Rob that the -- I'll say the air transport OE was a little nonintuitive this year because there was very little growth there.
But there are a couple of 3 things coming on one of which you cited and that is the comparables from third and fourth quarter of last year were very high to try to get across.
But a couple of other things under the waterline.
First I would say we got virtually no material help from 787.
Remember we've always said the ramp-up to synchronize our production which was well ahead of Boeing's wouldn't really start occurring to this fourth quarter that we're in now.
And so we'll begin to see a little help in the fourth quarter and then more of it obviously as we get into next year so next year is going to be a much bigger contributor than we've seen this year.
So that's one thing.
And then the other 2 things going on there is that wouldn't be obvious is that typically we book any non-recurring engineering that we get from the OEMs into this OE line.
It's not a frequent occurrence but every once in a while when there are changes both Boeing and Airbus will give us non-recurring payment for making those changes that are out of scope.
Plus on top of that we had a lot of work that we were doing on the C919 specifically over in China.
Both the Boeing component of that and the Chinese component of that are down for the quarter and so that's having some impact of dampening the growth.
The second one we had which just gets into the real arcane is that our heads-up display product that comes out of our air -- is managed out of our air transport area is often sold on a product basis.
One of the great strengths of our company is selling commercial products in the military.
Well last year we had a number of HUD sales into 2Z 3Z 4Zs into military platforms that went away this year because of the funding.
So if you look at those 2 things alone and were to take away the NRE and the HUD sales our air transport OE would have been up 5% which I think is least directionally correct.
So that's what the dampening effect that we saw on that side.
Relative to your second question on 777 I'm going to go back and give the same answer.
It's premature to talk about any specific architectural decisions Boeing would make.
I have found over my few years here at Collins it never pays to get out ahead of your customer so we won't do that today.
But when they make that decision we have worked very closely with them.
I think we have -- very specifically what opportunities that would flow from either of those 2 opportunity sets.
And I'm not going to predispose what the answer might be here in public.
Your next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Patrick incentive comp maybe give us some color.
You've had good numbers here.
Where was incentive comp in the quarter and what should we be thinking about for the entire year? What I'd say Cai is that our incentive comp plan remains on track.
I think I've talked to you we're around 100% payout actually a little bit below that.
And there were really no material adjustments to incentive comp this year.
Now interestingly enough year-over-year it was a pretty big headwind because we had almost no incentive compensation in the third quarter of last year because we were adjusting guidance down.
So there was about a $20 million headwind year-over-year on incentive compensation.
Fortunately we were able to offset that with a number of other I'll say employee-related costs that came down in the quarter but no material change to incentive compensation.
And I would expect the run rate to continue into the fourth quarter as well.
Your next question comes from David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the aftermarket I appreciate your comments.
What exactly is the aftermarket guidance now for the full year because I know it's bounced around a bit.
In my notes I still have mid- to high-single digits up which looks tough given the comp in the fourth quarter.
So maybe just talk about that.
And then specifically breaking it down on mandates and spares and MRO what you're seeing? And how far along are you on the mandate side and is that an upper as we head into '14? Yes.
Well we hadn't changed our guidance for aftermarket since the adjustment we made last quarter to MRO.
And I would say as I said in my prepared remarks we're not counting on any recovering MRO as we did in the fourth quarter.
So all the growth is going to be in that discretionary portion which are mandates retrofits and spares.
The way I would look at it this way I feel pretty good across the board on the mandates on the spares that we've got loaded in there and I'd say on most of the retrofits especially as they involve the air transport side things like the 767 display program at FedEx is locked and loaded we're going to get that I don't think there's any ambiguity to it.
There's one area of risk that we're looking at very closely and that's the discretionary retrofits related to business aviation.
Undeniably because of the -- just the overtone of biz jets especially at the light end there should be and historically has been a circumstance that when people aren't buying new business jets they upgrade their older business jets.
And so they're typically very lucrative in terms of upgrading display programs or efficiency upgrades.
And we saw that last year a lot we saw at the beginning of this year.
We are seeing some softening in that a lot of quote activity.
But the dealers that we deal with are struggling to close those quotes.
And so I think the biggest risk item we've got going into the fourth quarter is that segment alone.
And so we're working it really hard we're watching it very carefully.
We don't think it's severe enough that we're willing to come off our guidance right now.
But if there's any risk I think that's where it is.
Otherwise I feel pretty good about it.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Government Systems and the resiliency in the margin there.
I know you briefly commented on '14 and the natural uppers and downers.
And I wondered if you might kind of put that in context with what you've seen this year in terms of maybe mixed benefits or cost benefits.
Maybe just some color around how the margins have been so resilient in the face of the volume declines and what that means for what we should think about profitability levels next year? I'll be glad to Carter as best I can.
First let me say and I think it's undeniable the folks at Government Systems and the shared services have been working their butt off.
The good news is we saw this coming we didn't walk past the graveyard where sequestration's concerned.
We took the $60 million restructuring.
We all remember in the fourth quarter of last year.
And so the best thing we did is we were prepared for it and we acted early and often to try to get our costs down where we could and control what we could control.
I think far and away I could talk about all of the sub elements but far and away that's what's helped us.
We cut back on some R&amp;D as we've said.
But that should have been cut back because the opportunity set is not as great there and we are able to shift that over into our Commercial Systems.
We're also looking at bringing more Commercial Systems product over so we don't need that R&amp;D.
So that certainly helped out.
And I guess the last thing I would say is we have been a little lucky.
And the lucky part is that the cuts that we've been incurred have largely been through the development programs that come with naturally at lower margins.
And so our stable product the legacy products that we have have been hanging in there pretty tight and that's where most of our margin come because a lot of it is commercially-based.
It's derived from what we have in the commercial so it commands those margin.
And then the final thing I'd say that we're beginning to get traction on and I think it's going to be the bigger contributor as we go out the next few years is our international sales.
FireStorm is a great example of that.
Surface was the terrible portfolio over the last 2 years now it's the jewel in the crown because it has been able to reset itself quickly and capitalize on this product that's very attractive in the international markets.
As we begin to get more of that kind of opportunity set coming in I think that will help us as well.
Your next question comes from John Godyn Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> From your vantage point are you seeing any changes in the marketplace on the back of the Cessna production cuts? And Clay given your experience in the industry just a best guess as to when we'll see a true inflection in demand for new jets? No I'm not seeing a lot of industry change at the low end as a result of that.
I think environment in business aviation really hasn't changed over the years.
I think the disappointment there for all of us is that we had expected some improvement and in fact we haven't seen that we've seen about steady-state to the high end and we've seen it worsen at the low end.
As I mentioned in my remarks we're expecting to be about 2% down for business aviation because of the irrelatively higher quantities at the low end that's in deliveries.
And we would have thought it to be maybe flat or up when we started the year.
And I think -- but the conditions that brought that on and I'm sure that Scott talked about it a lot yesterday so I won't add much to that.
But it's just the general economic conditions that are not favorable for people making this particular capital purchase at this particular time.
And I think until we see that recovery I have often said things in the largest market in the United States I think over 3% GDP growth.
And I think we need some government regulation resolutions on taxes and health care that will restore general economic confidence.
And when that happens then I think businesses start to reinvest in everything not just in business aviation but certainly that will come along as well.
So it's hard to call I think any of us would be unwise to do it.
But I would say we probably shouldn't expect any meaningful change over the next year.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky Citi Investment Research.
And Jason has withdrawn his question.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought I maybe ask a question on the buyback.
Given your comments about debt repayments in the fourth quarter and the overall leverage of the company at this point do you think it's fair to assume that the buy back going forward will be fairly more modest? Well we've been talking about that the entire year.
We did have a fairly large slug of shares in the first half particularly in the first quarter.
And I said we continue to buy back shares but at a lower rate.
So I think that trend will continue for the balance of the year.
The other thing to point out is that fourth quarter by far is our largest cash flow quarter every year.
And so we are going to be generating a lot of cash flow we will use some of it for share repurchases and some of it to pay down that short-term debt.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you expect to take fourth quarter repayments to maybe be similar to what we saw in the third quarter because it's pretty modest in the third quarter right? I don't want to speculate as to the exact amount.
But on that order of magnitude yes.
Your next question comes from Yair Reiner Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Patrick just a follow-up question on that.
You have $600 million of short-term debt some of it is bond some of it is bank debt.
Kind of where would you like to be? How much of that do you want to term out? And if we kind of look ahead 12 months what do you want the balance sheet to look like? What I would say is that we'll be terming out a portion of that short-term debt.
Exactly how much I think depends on a couple of different things.
First of all we're still putting our plan together for next year and there is always variability around cash flow both for this year and next year.
So I would say we'll definitely refinance the $200 million of long-term debt that's coming due.
And then another slug of that commercial paper will probably go long term as well.
I just don't know how much at this point in time.
Your next question comes from Noah Poponak Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about fiscal '14 I guess from a total company perspective.
If you knew nothing about the financial model I think the reference to '13 as a transition year would sort of imply '14 looks much better.
And so I know you don't want to get too far ahead of September but how are you thinking about that? Does revenue grow much more than flat on a total company basis? Is there anything much different next year in the segment incremental margins than you normally see and anything below the line worth noting? It seems to me that the answer to all of that is really no and that everything looks fairly similar to '13? And so given the reference to '13 as a transition year just want to make sure there isn't something much different than what I'm expecting.
Well no the last thing I want to do as I leave is to steal Kelly Ortberg's thunder.
So as we typically do in September we'll come out with all the answers to every question that you just ask to try to provide the color that ultimately you're going to want to know on what '14 looks like.
The only thing I would do is reiterate what I've already said.
I do believe this quarter will be sort of -- we'll look back historically and say this is sort of a low watermark.
I think it might be lumpy as it goes.
Nothing in this life is a straight line as we all learn especially given the market conditions.
But I just have a feeling right now and having done it for a while I guess that I'm entitled to a feeling.
I have a feeling right now that it isn't all peaches and cream in the future but it's going to get better than it has been.
Because the last 2 or 3 years have been pretty darn hard.
And I just think we're getting to that point of stabilization.
If you heard my presentations over the last year that's what we're looking for.
We're looking for that stabilization where we become more predictable.
I absolutely believe as bad as it still is that Government Systems is approaching that stability.
And I've said by this time next year that market will be as stable as it ever has.
I mean there'll be uncertainties but we'll be back to a point where sequestration will be baked in we'll have a strategy out of the Pentagon we'll have a '15 budget and a sense of what the priorities are.
And we'll be much easier able to call it.
And as I said before I don't think it's going to be as far down as it was this year.
In Commercial Systems it completely relies on things outside of my control.
What's the economy going to be to help start facilitating a business jet upper on the light end I think the long range will hang in there.
The air transport production rates are locked and loaded.
And then as we lace in these market share improvements we rely totally on our OEMs to get that total development job done.
And hopefully again we'll do our portion of it.
But when they get that job done there's an annuity there that is undeniable.
We're going to see 787 A350 CSeries MRJ a whole host of new business jets coming in over the next 3 to 4 years.
And what quarter that happens? Yes I guess we'd like to call it but it won't matter.
That's going to happen.
And that's the undeniable part of this transition I talk about.
So that's why I feel good about where this company is.
And if you're not in it you better get in it.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
Patrick I wanted to pursue a little bit a question you answered to Cai.
You said employee costs were down offsetting some of the roughly $20 million headwind for comp.
Can you quantify how much it was down? And whether it was allocated the normal way across the different sectors because the incremental margin in Commercial was very high and obviously were even higher whatever the negatives were here.
I would say this George it did distribute kind of as you would expect based on the employee base it's across the board.
It offset most of that headwind that I talked about from an incentive compensation perspective.
And the thing that's going to be hard to predict a little bit is next quarter we've got -- we'll definitely have more headwind on incentive compensation.
The question is are some of these employee costs particularly we saw some very favorable medical spending the question is whether that favorable trend will continue.
That tends to be pretty lumpy and harder to predict.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I did want to ask a question on the rarely asked topic which is in-flight entertainment.
Not just the wide-body stuff of course I'd like to get a little bit of color on your expectations on that wind down and whether these higher rates of retirement of aircraft you're going to have an accelerating impact on wide-body IFE.
But I'd be curious to know how the product development cycle is going on with IFE and whether there are some opportunities for you in other areas narrow-bodies in particular and how that is going to impact the outlook for your transport OE and biz jet OE over the next 12 to 18 months? Right.
Well first relative to wide-body IFE I think the trends are very clearly -- there is a wind down business.
We're really producing no hardware for that it's basically a service and support type business as long as they stay on wing.
But what I would say even though it's a declining sales revenue it's very profitable now which that business hasn't been over the majority of its life.
So we're not in a good place relative to growth nor do we expect to but it is a good profit and cash generator as it winds down.
And I don't think -- I think we properly sized the relative rate of decline.
I mean it's been going down about $0.20 or $0.25 a year as I recall.
I don't think it's going to continue to kind of atrophy at about those levels until it goes away.
The good news over time it will just become a footnote in a more declining sense of a drag on Commercial Systems as the size decreases.
Relative to everything else well which is what we call cabin management we're actually very bullish on that.
We're introducing a whole new product line of what we call a client-centric product that significantly reduces the costs and improves the reliability of the narrow-body product and provides in-seat capability at a much lower cost which we think is going to be an extremely attractive product for the narrow-body world as we go.
We should get that product certified I want to say by early next year.
And so as we go into '14 that's one of the opportunity sets for growth that we see in Commercial Systems probably more to the back half of the year.
But going forward beyond that if you go past the like 12-month period I think yes that would be a very good contributor.
And then our biz jet cabin work continues to be good.
Our Venue product is selling extremely well really for the same reason highly reliable lower-cost system flexible as it go into all cabin sizes.
So that is a good business for us now.
We think that there are some product introductions coming out that will provide us even more growth.
Your next question comes from Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on one of the R&amp;D things that you talked about.
You had some programs that ended and could you elaborate on them? And also talk about the KC-46 and your integral to that and it sounds like it's making real progress? Yes.
The -- I'd say the biggest effort there that we had that's winding down is the Pro Line Fusion basic product development.
As you know it is sort of 2 different kind of element the basic product line and then we have application costs which is certification and tailoring it to the specific OEM.
And it's the application costs that will be going on as a steady-state and in some cases ramping up but the product line cost is the big kahuna.
And that's begun to wind down Howard.
So that's probably the biggest tailwind that we're getting out of R&amp;D.
And then the rest of them are just small I would say a lot of BFE product upgrades that are finishing.
I've mentioned some of the cabin management stuff.
We're in the certification work now and not basic product development.
So that's what's bringing that down.
In terms of KC-46 the program is going very well from our perspective.
Obviously the application of a lot of the commercial products is something we know how to do and that's proceeding apace.
And so everything I see or know of in the KC-46 is favorable.
Your next question comes from Kevin Ciabattoni KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Ciarmoli.
One area of focus just on the margins for Commercial obviously very good in the quarter.
How do we think about the sustainability there maybe over the next 6 to 9 months as you rethink with the 787 I mean is that going to be sort of a dilutive event to both the corporate margin or the commercial margins and the incremental margins? Michael it's Patrick.
What I'd say is if you look at the margin performance for the quarter there are 2 -- kind of 2 key things.
One is there was about a 46% incremental flow before research and development.
That is probably a little richer than it's been over the past few quarters because we had such a good performance in our aftermarket.
And as you know aftermarket tends to be a little bit higher profitability than the OEM.
The second thing is lower R&amp;D.
I think year-over-year we're down about $10 million in research and development.
What I'd say about both of those things is the product mix is going to vary quarter-by-quarter but obviously as 787 starts to ramp-up it will come in at a lower margin so discreetly that 787 is going to be dilutive to the incremental margin.
The other thing is regarding R&amp;D as I indicated earlier we're expecting R&amp;D to go up a little bit from third quarter to fourth quarter.
So I don't think it will be as much of a tailwind over the course of the next few quarters as it was this quarter.
Your next question comes from Michael Derchin CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Clay you mentioned something that's relatively new phenomena which is the parting out of relatively new aircraft by the airlines.
I'm wondering if you could expand upon that.
And also you mentioned a business that you're in I wasn't familiar with that Intertrade can you expand on that also? Sure.
Well I think it's a phenomena that's being talked about a lot more lately because there are a lot more participants in it.
In essence as I said in my opening statements what you're seeing is some of these retirements which are accelerating are relatively new and especially if they're in the 737 next generation and A320 families where there's a lot of proliferation of those aircraft but also where the parts have some utility.
And what we're seeing there is a lot of the used parts are particularly attractive to airlines who have aircraft who's maybe service life is somewhat finite 5 to 6 years when they know that a refurbished used part will serve them very well and reliably and don't need to go buy a brand new part.
And that I think is the phenomena that we're seeing.
It's always existed but not in the scale that we're seeing now.
So it's a combination of the more availability of these aircraft being retired and the airlines trying to run their operation very efficiently.
I want to reiterate these are very safe parts they're certified they're backed by certification just like anything else is.
But we're just seeing a higher quantity of them.
Interesting enough we bought this Intertrade business over 10 years ago essentially to help us broker avionics equipment that we would take as trade in as used.
It's grown far beyond that.
And now we're even in some of the engine business brokering now.
So we provide an airline just about any part they'd want whether it's an Avionics or Rockwell Collins part or anyone else.
And as I said it's been very lucrative for us over the last year as we participated in this phenomena.
Your final question comes from Joe Nadol JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up on cash deployment.
Clay you did mention during your opening comments just on the opportunities here for Rockwell Collins to deploy the balance sheet in very value accretive ways.
You guys obviously have been really focused on the buyback even adding a little bit of debt the last couple of years to buy back all that stock.
Today we're at $0.70 so it's the highest it's been since precrisis.
And I'm just wondering when you look at your stock when you look at the M&amp;A opportunities out there both Commercial and Defense if changing valuations of all types have had any impact on the way you're thinking about deploying capital? What I would say about that Joe is that our basic look at capital deployment has not changed in the period that I've been the CEO.
We don't keep a lot of cash laying around because we're a good cash machine we can get it when we need it.
We've got a lot of good backstops so we dominated the risk there.
And will you see what the opportunity set is out there value creative strategic acquisitions is always our first priority if we can help grow the business.
The environment for that hasn't been all that good in the last 2 or 3 years because of the inability to value some of these properties in a way that's reasonable.
As those opportunities come up then we'll continue to take a hard look at that.
If they make sense and they pass all of our financial gates then we'll do one.
If not then we'll return that cash to the shareowners as we have.
As Patrick mentioned we've returned over $4 billion and significantly reduced our share count over this period when we haven't been doing acquisitions.
But both apply and we've been very clear about that in our capital deployment discussions we've had with all investors.
I would expect you would see that same strategy laid out under Kelly's leadership here.
Patrick obviously will still be here helping him do that.
And so I would say no big changes where that's concerned.
But we're ever mindful of the conditions out there to ensure that what we do is creating value.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Beusing for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I wanted to thank everyone for joining us today and participating in the conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Financial Results Conference.
You may now disconnect your line.