Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen; the incoming Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Well today marks my first official earnings call since I took over as CEO at the beginning of August.
And at that time I said it's full speed ahead for our company because I fundamentally believe in our overall strategy and that we're headed in the right direction.
We're well positioned in our markets.
Our customer relationships are strong thanks to a history of delivering on our commitments.
We've had a unique and differentiating business model that leverages common investments and resources across commercial and government businesses.
And we are very solidly -- we're very solid financially with strong operating margins and cash flow as well as a balance sheet that gives us the flexibility to make investments where we see good returns.
And we have a seasoned management team and dedicated employees who are committed to our success and know what it takes to win.
And these are just a few of the reasons I'm so confident about the future of Rockwell Collins.
But like any business we're not without challenges.
Our end markets in defense and the light end of business aviation remain near the bottom of their cycles.
We've seen continued delays in new aircraft entering into service that have extended beyond any of our original expectations.
And the political environment in the U.S.
is making it increasingly difficult to plan our business as no one knows what the next round in negotiations will yield.
As a result we've struggled to generate top line growth for several years despite what I feel have been well-laid plans.
That's why when I took the helm I also indicated that my #1 priority was to accelerate our company's return to growth and we would achieve that growth by focusing our effort in 3 key areas: First increasing our international business; second enhancing and expanding our core capabilities; and third building on our strong commitment to innovation and I believe we're making progress on all fronts.
So let me review a few of the highlights in each of these key areas.
On the international front we continue to expand business in the Middle East with sales of our FireStorm targeting system and in Brazil with equipment on the KC-390 aircraft.
In Europe AgustaWestland selected our HeliSure Synthetic Vision and Terrain Awareness and Warning System for 4 of their helicopter platforms.
And just yesterday we announced that China Sichuan Airlines will be the launch customer of our PAVES on demand in-flight entertainment system for their narrow-body aircraft.
And in the next few weeks you'll hear more about our international progress through announcements at the upcoming Seoul and Dubai Airshows.
We made significant steps to expand our positions in our core markets this year.
For example we secured the large-format displays on the 737 MAX and grew our content on the A350.
We accomplished our 787 ramp to support 7 aircraft a month.
And we're on track to ramp up to full-scale production of 10 aircraft a month by the end of the calendar year.
In business and regional aviation we experienced sales growth from Bombardier's Challenger and Global programs as well as Beechcraft's King Airs.
In fact over the last 3 years our business in regional OEM sales have increased by over 30% from $466 million to $612 million in a market that's been relatively -- seen relatively little growth.
This growth was due to our strong market share capture particularly at Bombardier and Gulfstream.
And our strategy to diversify upmarket has helped us withstand the turbulence at the light end.
Our ongoing commitment to innovation was on display this week at the NBAA Convention in Las Vegas where we announced several new innovations for both cabin and flight deck.
Among these was our EVS-3000 Enhanced Vision System which uses a new proprietary multispectral sensor developed by our engineers to significantly improve the detection of outside terrain hazards and obstacles in low-visibility weather conditions.
And earlier this month the F-35 Joint Program Office announced it will focus exclusively on maturing the Helmet Mounted Display system codeveloped by Rockwell Collins and Elbit Systems of America which leverages tremendous innovation and advanced technology to provide unprecedented situational awareness capabilities in support of that F-35 program.
These are all examples of our focus on executing our strategies to drive performance accelerate our return to growth and ultimately increase shareowner value.
We effectively sized the risk related to sequestration and incorporated it into our plan not only the negative revenue impact but also ensuring we rightsize the company to maintain the level of operating margins we expect out of our business.
And in the end we're seeing the results.
We achieved our guidance range across the board and exceeded our guidance for both earnings per share and cash flow.
More specifically we generated over 21% total operating margins grew earnings per share by 10% and improved cash flow by 16%.
This performance was a testament to our commitment of our 19 000 employees around the world.
Now as we look to 2014 we proactively planned for the realities of the market.
I believe we're well positioned to deliver strong operating earnings and cash flow.
Our Commercial Systems business is poised for growth driven by 787 and A350 volume as well as higher aftermarket demand.
I do believe we've derisked the 2014 plan by baking in the realities of the recycling impact to our air transport MRO business along with the effects of the delayed business jet recovery.
In addition our Government Systems business will see much the same conditions in 2014 that we saw in 2013.
We believe sequestration is here to stay and we've planned our fiscal 2014 just as we did in 2013.
And we should also experience a full year of savings from the restructuring activity undertaken in fiscal year 2013 which is expected to allow us to once again generate operating margins greater than 20% despite these declining revenues.
As I look beyond 2014 our market share gains are expected to pay off driven by our Commercial Systems business where we expect double-digit growth for our air transport OEM sales supported by continued growth from the 787 A350 and the CSeries.
We anticipate air transport aftermarket revenues will be fueled by regulatory mandates and spares provisioning for new aircraft.
In business and regional we see a path to OEM growth as a number of new aircraft where we've gained market share will enter production specifically the Embraer Legacy and the Lear 85 as well as some yet to be announced platforms.
Business and regional aftermarket revenues are expected to continue to grow through retrofits utilizing new product introductions such as GPS-guided landing and cabin upgrades for larger aircraft.
In Government Systems our return to growth after 2014 is based on the assumption that the U.S.
spending will bottom out in 2014 and then stabilize in 2015.
We also expect a number of programs will ramp up production such as the KC-10 and the E-6B aircraft updates as well as the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System and the F-35 helmets.
In addition the international sales will be a key element of our growth strategy in Government Systems as we continue to penetrate markets and execute on these new programs.
So to summarize we continue to improve efficiency to maintain our strong operating performance and we've sustained our investment in R&amp;D to support our long-term growth objectives.
2014 will be an important year in accelerating the growth trajectory of Rockwell Collins with increased production of new aircraft across our businesses.
And we're entering a period of significant number of new aircraft where we'll be entering service most of which will include increased Rockwell Collins content.
And I'm confident that with our proven operating model we'll convert these market positions into long-term profitable growth and drive increasing shareowner value for years to come.
Well with that very strong foundation we're about to add a very important growth platform accelerator through the acquisition of ARINC.
This acquisition will advance our vision of becoming the leader in aviation information management.
We have both an integration team and a synergy capture team doing the detailed planning and identifying opportunities right now.
And while there's still a lot of work to do I can tell you I'm really excited about what I see on both fronts.
Let me give you an example of the type of synergies we see with this acquisition.
Today in business aviation flight departments they have to use multiple services from multiple suppliers with multiple invoicing if they want the best in flight support services.
Our Ascend International Trip Support is already a market leader.
Now we can match it with ARINC Direct's online regional trip support tools which are widely regarded as best in the industry.
Add in ARINC's connectivity services and our flight operation system's scheduling and dispatch software and operators will have a one-stop shop for the best flight planning and operational services.
Plus these tools can all be integrated to share information and work together making it easier to use saving them time and reducing their operating costs all from one source with one invoice.
And this is just one example of the many synergies that we're expecting to result from this acquisition to help drive growth for the long-term future.
Now from a financial perspective we should start seeing the benefits of cost synergies almost immediately.
I expect to see this business grow its EBITDA margins to greater than 20% over the 5-year outlook.
As we bring in some of the revenue synergies I expect additional margin expansion along with double-digit revenue growth.
Now I know you're all starving for more detailed disclosure on ARINC but the fact of the matter is we don't own them yet.
The government shutdown has delayed the timing of the close of the transaction but we're still hopeful we will see the necessary approvals by the end of the quarter.
At that time we plan to update our 2014 guidance and we're planning an investor conference to give you more details on ARINC as well as provide a broader update on the longer-term outlook for Rockwell Collins overall.
I look forward to that opportunity.
So with that let me turn the call over to Patrick for some additional details on our financial information.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company that are shown on Slide 3.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.25 billion a 1% decrease from last year.
Net income increased 15%.
While earnings per share increased 21%.
Fourth quarter fiscal year 2013 earnings per share increased to $1.28 compared to $1.06 the same quarter last year as the company continued to execute its capital deployment strategy through its share repurchase program the fourth quarter of 2013 benefited from the absence of a restructuring and asset impairment charge in 2012 and that was partially offset by higher employee incentive compensation costs in 2013.
Turning to Slide 4.
We have the fourth quarter results for Commercial Systems which reported revenues of $583 million up 3% from last year.
Aftermarket revenue grew $15 million or 6% to $254 million driven primarily by retrofits related to regulatory mandate upgrades.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $3 million or 1% to $310 million.
Sales to business and regional OEMs increased from higher deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Challenger aircraft partially offset by fewer deliveries for Cessna business jets.
Sales to air transport OEMs declined due to lower military HUD sales and lower engineering billings partially offset by increases in 787 hardware deliveries.
Now Commercial Systems operating earnings were $122 million or 20.9% of sales compared to operating earnings of $122 million or 21.6% of sales in the fourth quarter last year.
Operating margins decreased 70 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2013 as the benefit from higher sales volume was more than offset by higher employee incentive compensation costs and higher company-funded research and development expense.
Excluding the impact of these items incremental margins were greater than 50% for the quarter.
On Slide 5 Government Systems revenue declined 5% to $669 million.
Avionics sales increased $10 million or 3% primarily due to higher international tanker transport hardware sales partially offset by lower -- the impact of lower simulator sales.
Communication products sales declined $28 million or 16% resulting from lower satellite and secured communication product sales partially offset by increased deliveries in JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface Solutions sales increased $5 million or 9% from higher international FireStorm targeting system sales.
Finally Navigation Products sales were down 26% to $54 million driven by lower deliveries of airborne and ground navigation products as a result of the withdrawal in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Government Systems fourth quarter operating earnings were $151 million or 22.6% of sales compared to $175 million or 25% last year.
The lower operating earnings were primarily due to lower sales and the impact of higher employee incentive compensation costs.
On Slide 6 we have full year total company financial results for sales net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
In 2013 sales decreased by 2% as the headwinds in Government Systems were mostly offset by -- with growth in Commercial Systems.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow of $617 million is $83 million or 16% higher than last year due to lower cash payments for income taxes and employee incentive pay partially offset by other changes in working capital.
Slide 7 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment for the year.
Total spend remained relatively consistent at 20% of sales.
Company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed development efforts related to certain next-generation business jet programs.
Customer-funded R&amp;D expense decreased primarily due to the wind down of a number of development programs in Government Systems such as E-6 and E-2D.
Meanwhile we increased investment in preproduction engineering programs mostly related to the Boeing 737 Max program.
Moving to Slide 8.
We show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of 2013 we had total debt outstanding of $999 million compared to $779 million at the end of 2012.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due in December.
Our current intent is to refinance a portion of our maturing debts in the near term.
We ended the quarter with a debt to total capital ratio of 38% and a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 0.9.
As a reminder pending the acquisition of ARINC will further increase our debt leverage but we expect to retain our investment-grade credit rating which will provide us the necessary access to liquidity in a cost-effective manner.
The funded status of our pension plans improved to $585 million over the last year as discount rates came in 92 basis points higher than last year.
Our pension plan assets benefited from strong market returns and the $122 million in contributions we made during the year all contributed to that improvement.
In October subsequent to our year end we made a voluntary contribution to our pension plan of $55 million.
No further contributions are expected or required for the remainder of 2014.
If you turn to Slide 9 we've provided details related to the updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of 2013.
During the year we repurchased 9.8 million shares of stock at an average cost of $58.38 per share and reduced outstanding shares by 5%.
That brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to 86 million shares or $4.3 billion return to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program and we have reduced our outstanding share count by 27%.
Currently our available authorization is $411 million.
Now on to our final slide Slide 10 where we provide details of our fiscal year 2014 financial guidance which is unchanged from when we originally provided it last month.
We expect total sales of $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion with Commercial Systems sales increasing mid-single digits.
We anticipate this growth will come from higher Boeing 787 production regulatory mandates increased business jet cockpit upgrades and air transport spares for 787 and A350 aircraft.
In Government Systems we forecast revenue to decline mid to high single digits.
The decline is primarily due to an anticipated $200 million impact from a full year of sequestration.
The sequestration impact is expected to be partially offset by an increase in international defense sales and increased production in Avionics including the KC-10 and E-6B aircraft upgrades as well as higher deliveries for the JHMCS and JSF helmets.
Full year operating margins are expected to be in the range of 21% to 22% with Government Systems' operating margin stable above 20% and Commercial Systems' operating margins expanding about 50 basis points.
Earnings before income taxes year-over-year is expected to be relatively flat and earnings per share of $4.30 to $4.50 reflects a 300 basis point increase in our tax rate over 2013 due to the anticipated expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit in December.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $550 million to $650 million.
Now that completes my review of the financial results and projections.
But before we go to Steve for the Q&amp;A section I wanted to hand it back to Kelly for one final comment.
Well thanks Pat.
I want to acknowledge a transition that will be taking place in our investor relations function.
You likely saw an announcement earlier this week that Steve Buesing is moving on to be our Vice President and Controller of our Commercial Systems business.
And I've received a lot of feedback from many of you about the very professional job that Steve has done over the past 3 years.
And I'd like to publicly acknowledge his great work on behalf of our company and our shareowners.
Our new Investor Relations lead will be Ryan Miller.
Ryan comes out of our finance organization where he's held a number of leadership positions over the last 10 years.
And Ryan and Steve have been working together very closely over the last month.
And my expectation is that we won't miss a beat in terms of providing the kind of service that you all expect from our company.
So Steve thank you very much.
And Ryan welcome aboard and good luck.
With that Steve we can move to the Q&amp;A.
Well thanks Kelly.
I appreciate the kind words and I really will miss the interactions with all of you.
[Operator Instructions] So Shannon we're ready for you to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the R&amp;D? It looked like you came in less than the $950 million target for the year and then also the growth in preproduction was less than expected.
So what accounted for the change? And then does that push it into '14 where '14 ends up coming in a little bit higher? Sam the answer is yes.
The change in deferred production engineering compared to our expectations was largely a shift from '13 into '14.
And due to I'll say delays in our anticipated start in programs like the 737 MAX I did a little bit of -- C-series that shifted from '13 into '14.
So the aggregate spend hasn't changed.
And what you're going to see whereas -- when we started the year I would have anticipated a pretty significant decline from '13 to '14.
I think it's going to be closer to flat to maybe even slightly up as a result of those delays.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wondered if you might talk a little bit about the Commercial Systems aftermarket and what that may have looked like x the regulatory mandate sales just trends you're seeing there.
It seemed like that might be a little bit light of what you were expecting.
I wonder if you could just discuss the moving pieces a little bit for us.
Yes.
Let me characterize the aftermarket in CS because I think that's an area where it certainly didn't play out as we had originally anticipated as we came into the year.
I'd say there's 2 areas where we saw things different than we expected.
One is in the air transport MRO where we saw the effect of recycling of parts as they were retiring aircraft.
And I think we pretty well predicted the retirements where we had not anticipated was the amount of recycling of equipment.
We saw that early in the year and went -- and updated our models.
And I will tell you that I think we've got that well understood now and we've got that incorporated into our fiscal year '14 guidance.
So I don't think you're going to see that any longer as a headwind.
I think we've understood it and forecasted it going forward.
The second area that has been good is the air transport spares as well as the updated mandates.
We did see what we expected with TCAS and data-link mandates start to drive some revenue in the second half of next year and we're anticipating that will continue to accelerate here in 2014 as well.
So that's kind of our air transport.
In business aviation we first of all always had a kind of a back half loaded plan in business aviation.
We've seen very good takeup in cabin systems upgrades particularly with VVIP-type aircraft so that market's doing quite well.
We have not met our expectations in some of the modifications avionics mods.
The market is growing just not quite as fast as we had anticipated.
We had a pretty aggressive plan this year.
And I'll tell you that like we did with the MRO I've dialed that back to more of a conservative forecast going forward to reflect what we've seen this year.
So I think we've got a good handle on our overall Commercial Systems aftermarket and we derisked the areas that we saw in '13 in our '14 guidance.
Our next question is from Robert Stallard of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly on the ARINC deal I understand you can't give us that much more information.
But I thought one of the things you might be able to get a handle on is the potential deal costs that you are likely to incur.
I was wondering if you could give us any steer on that.
Rob this is Patrick.
Let me give you maybe a little bit more detail.
As we talked in September we were looking at a situation where we were going to be slightly to somewhat dilutive because of the deal costs and because of the integration costs.
We've been working that pretty heavily.
And I would say this if I adjust our results for both ARINC and the impending sale of KOSI I think the net impact of those 2 things are going to be neutral to somewhat accretive to earnings.
So we've improved the results since the last time we talked.
The deal costs I think are going to be in the range of $10 million to $15 million.
Unfortunately they're going up because of the delay in the HSR filing so we've gotten a little bit more legal costs.
But we're seeing those transaction costs kind of in the $10 million to $15 million range.
And I would also tell you from a cash flow perspective as I look at the first 12 months of cash flow coming out of ARINC it's going to add roughly -- probably about 10% to our operating cash flow.
So it's going to be cash flow accretive it's not going to be significantly dilutive to our earnings over the course of the next year and I share Kelly's excitement with respect to the transaction.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the business jet forecast that's embedded in the '14 outlook.
I guess you provided your '14 outlook in September and cited pressures at Cessna specifically offsetting strength elsewhere.
Then Cessna reported in October and took the Cessna number down again and I guess spoke to even more pressure in the market for them.
Can you just walk us through the dynamics or the math of how that is or it's not fully embedded in your outlook? That would be helpful.
Yes.
So we've seen Cessna come down with rates throughout the year.
When -- we had advanced notice of what Cessna just released when we put together our '14 guidance.
Their -- they've reduced their production rates to almost a de minimis level here going into fiscal '14 and we factored that into our forecast and that's in our guidance.
So we're not anticipating any recovery at Cessna for production rates.
Now what we will see and that's what driving our year-on-year comp is that they've come down throughout the year and so we're going to see a full year next year at that lower rate.
Our next question is from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have to ask ARINC so if it's going to be it and KOSI sale are going to be neutral or slightly positive.
Is essentially the profit on KOSI an offset to the deal costs and integration costs? I think that's a good way to think about it.
I would describe it as a partial offset.
And then the remaining offset of the deal and integration costs would be the earnings from ARINC.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
LLC</strong> I'm going to try to make it in 2 questions.
But one do you -- Kelly the commercial OE was down 1% in the quarter.
I mean virtually everybody else is up near growth of 10%.
So if you could get a little more color on what's happened there and why it's still going to be double -- low double-digit growth in '14.
And just a simple one for you Patrick.
Was incentive comp in the quarter up around $20 million versus last year? Yes.
Let me take the ATS fourth quarter OEM.
We had a muddy comp in the fourth quarter.
The decline is as -- was discussed in the prepared remarks really military HUDs that we delivered last year that created a comp headwind.
And we also had a bunch of cleanup of non-recurring 787 activity at the end of last year.
If you took that out we would have grown at mid-single digit and we did see sequential growth of about 3%.
So the 787 ramp has happened per our plan.
And I think you're going to see us come out of the shoots in '14 comparable to what we guided in terms of OEM growth there in air transport.
So I would look at the fourth quarter as kind of just a muddy comp.
And George to answer your second question the year-over-year it was actually a little bit higher than $20 million but yes about $20 million -- between $20 million and $25 million.
Our next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Patrick can you tell us a bit about the KOSI sale? Is there any loss of earnings that we have to think about associated with that? There is a -- I would say there's a very modest -- it's not going to change our guidance with respect to Government Systems' operating earnings or operating margin for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kelly back to your kind of opening comment about repositioning the company for growth you gave us kind of the 3 pillars that you're focused on.
One of those that wasn't focused on M&amp;A but clearly you've done a big deal with ARINC.
I'm just curious is ARINC an exemption to your growth strategy or is it an indication that you're thinking about being more acquisitive on a go-forward basis beyond ARINC? Well I talked about expanding our core market and that's -- acquisitions clearly fit in that category for us.
So we were addressing this information management space through both organic development as well as inorganic development before ARINC with the purchase of Air Routing and our flight operations system.
So I see this as just an expansion -- a highly accelerated expansion into our core markets and some relative of close adjacencies that were associated with that.
As I look forward we'll continue to look for those opportunities particularly opportunities that can help us further cement the glue between the Rockwell Collins capabilities and the ARINC capabilities going forward to create further synergies for the business.
Our next question is from Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wanted to look at the biz jet market at a high level structurally.
Just coming out of NBAA and your comments earlier about how -- yes we all know the light jet market is near the bottom.
I wanted to ask if you think there's actually some vulnerability or exposure in the heavy jet market and then overall talk about maybe a switch toward an upgrade-driven opportunity set where the attractiveness of aircraft in the used fleet given their pricing their availability is perhaps driving people away from new aircraft buys.
And so would that be a more interesting part of the market going forward given what's been going on in the new aircraft demand environment? Well a lot of questions there.
Let me address a couple of them.
No we don't see major weakness at the high end of the market so no change in our outlook there.
Nothing coming out of NBAA gives me any pause there.
I also have heard nothing coming out of NBAA that gives me any confidence that the light end is -- that we've got any upside on the light end.
I think it's still pretty soft.
The aftermarket has always been an area where we've been focused.
And we've seen growth this year and we're anticipating growth next year with cabin and flight deck upgrades.
One thing that was announced which is really good news is Nextant announced that they're going to upgrade another -- up to 50 aircraft Hawker 400 upgrades and those are big Pro Line 2 to Pro -- or Pro Line 4 to Pro Line 21 upgrades a very good opportunity for us in the aftermarket.
So yes I think that we're going to continue -- while we're down in the new-build we're going to continue to exploit that aftermarket and we're bringing new products into the market.
We've done that this year and we'll continue to do that going forward to help stimulate some of that demand.
A couple of big announcements we made at NBAA I mentioned we launched our new compact HUD and our EVS sensor with a launch customer down at Embraer.
And we also launched a new -- the first 3D moving map which we think is going to have a lot of good uptake in the aftermarket enhanced wireless capability with our Venue Cabin System.
So these are all the types of things we're doing to help stimulate demand while the new aircraft buys are depressed.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to sort of look at last year's numbers for a comp for a second Patrick.
If I'm not mistaken it was a $26 million charge in the year ago.
And I think you talked about $75 million of benefit that should accrue to the company.
And I guess some of it's hard to do because revenues have changed and there's -- nothing's ever perfect.
But can you sort of do a little bit of a walk in how effective you've been at capturing the restructuring benefits that you're talking about? Yes.
We've tracked those restructuring benefits.
Actually on a monthly basis we reported out to Clay and now Kelly.
And I would tell that we have exceeded our expectations with respect to savings slightly but -- so we have tracked it and we have gotten -- we have captured those savings.
I would tell you that the savings are partially in 2013 and will have a full -- the full benefit in 2014.
And you're right you're not going to see it necessarily as margin dilution because some of it had to occur just to stave off the natural margin effects of lower volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just a follow-up on that.
So I mean is that why your incrementals -- you can -- you're capturing are on the order of 50%? That's certainly part of it yes.
Our next question is from Ronald Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just a really big picture question for you Kelly.
I think we've had a lot of detail so far.
As you've gotten into this new role and taken over this new role as you look forward what do you see as the 1 or 2 or 3 biggest challenges confronting you as the new leadership of the company? Well as I said I think our strategic direction is very sound.
I feel really good about the long-term prospects.
We've won a lot of positions.
We don't have to go win a whole lot of things.
Keeping our team focused at the light at the end of the tunnel in defense is always a challenge.
As they're battling they've done a remarkable job of managing through this defense cycle.
And keeping them focused on those opportunities and they're doing a good job at that.
Executing our business is absolutely critical.
It's one thing to win but we've got to go execute the business.
And we've seen case studies of where if we don't execute what that can -- what can happen.
And so we're very focused on executing delivering on time creating that long-term opportunity and making sure we meet the margin performance of all these new products we're bringing into market.
So we're spending a lot of time focused on that.
But I feel pretty good about the opportunities there.
And I think we're on track to deliver that shareowner value with that market share gain that we've captured.
Research Division</strong> I guess more specifically is there any 1 or 2 things you're currently spending more time on that's kind of key focus of your day now? Well obviously a key part of it is ARINC.
Making sure we integrate ARINC is -- and integrate it right get the cost synergies and put in place the processes and procedures to capture the revenue synergies across our businesses are key priorities for me.
And I'm spending a lot of time with our teams getting prepared for that.
I mean we're going to do that one right.
It's a big one.
It's going to create a lot of value and so that's going to take some energy from our management team to make sure we do that.
Our next question is from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kelly wanted to follow-up on the business jet and RJ side of the business.
Obviously a little bit surprising that that business is going to be down in its entirety this year given some of the programs you have ramping up C-Series Lear 85 Legacy 500.
Could you talk about where we are with those programs because it doesn't seem like they're helping a lot this year? And I was just going to throw try and slide another one into Patrick real quick.
I just want to know Patrick inventory x preproduction what does inventory do this year? Well we've long said that the real growth there's not going to be a lot of growth in the business aviation market beyond the new aircraft entries.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we've seen very good growth 30% over the last 3 years.
And it's all driven by new aircraft entry.
Unfortunately in 2014 we don't have a lot of tailwind of new entries.
We've got the Lear and the Legacys but they come in pretty late in the year not enough to offset the decline in production.
I mean it's a dramatic decline in production at Cessna.
And unfortunately until we get those airplanes and get a full year of production for the new entries we're just not going to be able to offset that.
And from an inventory perspective we saw a little bit of growth this year.
I would describe most of it as being more timing related than anything else.
As I look at the plan for '14 I think inventories are going to be flat to slightly down in the current -- with our current plan.
Our next question is from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the MRO aftermarket.
Can you give us a sense quantitatively has that business been flat? Is it down is it up a bit? And then in your plan for the next year do you anticipate it again being flat or do you expect it to come down a bit? And then just in terms of modeling for next year can you just give us some sense of the quarterly pace of revenue since there are a lot of moving parts these days? Yair the way I'd describe it is the MRO piece of our aftermarket has been up slightly I would say in the low single digits.
And we're projecting pretty much the same environment next year.
A little bit more growth in the air transport side than on the business jet side but we're looking at that kind of low to mid single digit growth on -- in the MRO piece of the aftermarket.
Now that's going to be off compared to the -- what I'll call the discretionary aftermarket where we're going to see better growth in that area in both business jet and in air transport.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the quarterly pacing of revenues next year? I think it's going to be pretty much what you saw this year.
I don't -- there isn't going to be a lot of variation at least as we see it today in the growth in Commercial Systems or in the decline in the Government Systems.
The only thing I'd say is you have to -- you always have to watch it -- watch for the aftermarket because that tends to be the lumpiest piece of the business and particularly the discretionary aftermarket.
Our next question is from Richard Safran of Buckingham Research.
Just a very quick question here I know a lot has been asked.
On the $170 million in preproduction engineering costs I know you said it was driven by the MAX and business jets.
I wanted to know if there was any 777X in there.
If you think that Boeing launches the 777X in November if you think there's any upside to that number in 2014 or do you think that probably rolls in in '15? Well there is no 777X in there yet.
We haven't -- Boeing hasn't made any decisions in our commodity areas on the 777X.
And we are actively doing some trade study work with them but that's very low level from an expense perspective.
We would expect that they'll be running competitions over the next 6 months.
And so we wouldn't start any material development in our commodity scheme on 777X in fiscal '14.
It will probably be more in '15.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wanted to ask you on the IFE.
You mentioned that in your prepared remarks and you had a press release earlier this week with just [ph] -- and you've got a launch customer for it.
Can you just kind of update us now that it's out there on what your expectations are with regard to the size of the market potential growth there what the pipeline looks like and then maybe just lastly what the product looks like? I noticed that in its initial one you've got some in-seat IFE and some overhead IFE that's going on.
And just kind of what your expectations are going forward with the mix in that product and what you think you're going to be selling? Well first of all there's no change in our overall strategy of focusing on single-aisle in-flight entertainment and exiting and not focusing on the twin aisle.
The PAVES product is -- has been a very successful product in the single-aisle market and that market is going through a transition.
Historically it's been an overhead with drop-down displays not in-seat displays in the single-aisle market.
We're seeing that move to an in-seat primarily at least initially that in-seat will be more in the front end of the airplane in the first class.
But over the long term we would expect to see in-seat video capability across the single-aisle market.
And that's why we've introduced this new product which is an in-seat video capability.
And the neat thing is technology is allowing us to do that in a much more efficient way than in the past and provide a much more reliable solution.
So we actually see that as both a good growth opportunity for positions with the narrow-body production for a bit but also as potential retrofit opportunities going forward.
Our next question is from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Kelly just to actually stay on that topic we're actually seeing part of a move in this IFE kind of market especially on the narrow-body with either portable displays kind of iPad -- iPods-like iPad-like I mean or bring your own device.
How did that PAVES kind of fit into that market? Well I think it's -- that those decisions are kind of on a customer-by-customer basis.
Some view that the iPads and -- are going to provide the service that they want.
I think that the airlines that are focused on using the IFE system to sell product don't want to rely on someone else to bring it into the airplane.
And so you're going to see them use that as a venue to upsell in -- to their end customers.
We -- again we think that initially you'll see the in-seat capability go into most single-aisle aircraft going forward in the business and first class and then maybe a split market in terms of the overhead versus in-seat for coach going forward.
Now you will see continued focus on connectivity and providing connectivity capability so that people can bring their mobile devices on the airplane.
I don't think anybody's going to stop doing that.
But I think we'll still see take-up in in-seat capability as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And Patrick if I could slip one more.
Incremental margins on the 787 will those still be a drag as you guys get to kind of the 10 per month.
How should we think about that? It's going to be a drag to the incremental margins slightly just a little bit.
I mean it's going to be well in excess of our operating margins but a little bit lower than our traditional incremental margins for the next year or so.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I'd like to dig in -- or Patrick dig in a little bit to the defense outlook that you guys are I guess down mid to high is what you're saying this year.
In the past you've said -- or Clay has said I believe that this was hoped -- you guys were hoping this would be a trough year.
I was wondering if you still believe that or if you think there might be more pressure in '15.
A lot of the bigger primes seems likely that 2015 is going to be a down year just on -- due to the late cycle versus early cycle nature of their businesses.
And then just within '14 looking in defense what are the moving parts that you're looking at? How big is international now? What are the risks there that things slipped out of your plan? And then what are the big competitions? I know the Manpack competition is probably a big one for you guys.
What else is in there that you're looking at? Well yes.
So let me characterize the -- maybe 2014.
So we put sequestration into the plan.
We've focused that at about -- or forecasted that at about $200 million.
And then we've guided in the mid to high single digit.
As I look at that first of all our business is much different than the large OEMs.
We go into the year with roughly 30% of our sales for that particular year anticipated or not in backlog so we're much shorter cycle business.
And we've seen the impact of these budget cuts faster than the OEMs.
But the good news is as we're coming out of that they'll be burning off prior year money while we'll be focused on current year money.
And we'll come out of that growth a little faster than them.
As I look at our next year's plan again we've put sequestration into it.
If you look at 2013 we actually performed a little bit better.
We ended up about $70 million versus $120 million.
I think there's one causal there is that DOD did spend a lot of prior year unallocated funds to offset some of the sequester.
And I don't think we're going to see that in 2014.
But I think as you look at it we've got it pretty well sized.
And if I look at what the risks and opportunities are there's a couple of big programs that I'm watching.
You mentioned one HMS.
Our plan is that we will go to an additional low rate initial production award for '14 and go to full-scale competition for important deliveries that will happen in '15.
That award is not yet made and the Army is debating as to whether they want to combine production or low rate initial production.
So that's one that we're really watching and could have some implications to the year.
The other is the KC-10 program.
And you've probably seen some press where the Air Force is considering whether they retire the KC -- accelerate the retirement of the KC-10 fleet.
We've just completed the development of the CNS/ATM upgrade for the KC-10s.
And in fiscal '14 we'll start the production and modification.
And if they would either delay that or cancel that program that would have some implications to our plan.
So as I kind of think of that I'd say if we get hit with those programs and they don't happen we'll probably be more to the high side of our guidance.
If those programs continue to go forward as we currently plan then we'll probably be more to the low side of the guidance in defense.
And I think it's fair to say that we still view 2014 as being the trough here for defense where I think it's going to flatten out in '15.
Now there's a lot of -- there's still a lot of uncertainty to the environment.
But I think it is fair to say that we are a shorter-cycle business so I think we're going to feel the pain earlier and hopefully get out of it quicker.
Our next question is from John Godyn of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Patrick I certainly can appreciate how ARINC is going to be a bit of a headwind to your capital returns to shareholders but you sort of mentioned how accretive it's going to be on a cash flow basis.
And of course there's a good slide in the presentation here on how important repurchases have been over the years for Collins.
So I was hoping that you could just sort of give us an update both on your philosophy as well as any metrics leverage or liquidity that are top of mind when just think about scaling your repurchase your capital returns in a kind of a post-ARINC world.
Yes I would say that first of all our capital deployment philosophy hasn't changed.
We've always said that we want to grow the business and absent growth opportunities want to make sure we return capital to our shareowners.
And we've played that out over -- since I've been in this role.
Obviously the one difference is we had a significant acquisition opportunity in ARINC.
And therefore it had a fairly significant call on our capital.
As I look forward about -- with respect to our capital structure we've said that we are committed to paying off the commercial paper portion of the ARINC deal over a short period of time.
I look at it as being about 2 years.
How much of that is it's about $500 million of the total acquisition.
So we're just going to still have a small budget for share repurchases over the next couple of years.
And then I would say as we get out of that period you'll see -- absent other acquisition opportunities you'll see us step up share repurchases beyond that.
Our next question is from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I know this will probably be addressed in your investor conference but I wanted to ask about ARINC.
The original discussion I think discussion was this was going to be a real great kind of revenue synergy story.
But it sounds like you've -- talking about cost synergies and getting EBITDA margins up into -- above 20%.
Could you maybe at a high level kind of discuss maybe what's -- whether you've identified some significant cost synergies and how that kind of paces out over that 5-year plan? Well the cost synergies come in earlier than the revenue synergies.
So that's the real focus.
I would say don't misinterpret my words here.
We still see a lot of revenue growth synergy opportunity but we also see those cost synergies.
They're primarily around integration of the corporate functions.
Integrating them into our business model will provide us real quick savings.
And combining some of what they're doing in their business aviation market with ARINC Direct and what we're doing in the business aviation with Ascend will provide us some pretty quick synergy opportunities going forward.
So those are the things.
As I look we put out the pro forma 2012 EBITDA to give you some indication of where they are.
You got to kind of project that through 2013.
The cost synergies will hit real soon.
And then we do have a few real immediate revenue synergies that we'll be banging on right away but most of those take a little time.
We may have to develop some products or some software to bring those in.
And those will feather in and provide that incremental growth in the out years.
Our last question is from Ken Herbert of Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to follow-up on the 2014 guidance specifically within commercial transport on the spare parts side.
I know initial provisioning seems like it's been a lot slower for the last couple of years than expected.
Can you just talk about the assumptions in '14 for spare parts sales specifically in support of provisioning and then maybe just provide a little more granularity on Intertrade? And specifically Kelly you talked about some of your -- won't be a headwind in '14 because you've adjusted -- it's reflected in guidance on the recycled parts side.
But maybe what are those assumptions and how do you see that playing out over the course of the year? Well the air transport spares will be driven by new aircraft entering to service.
And we've got 787 spares in the plan that's been a growth driver for us.
It's probably about the same.
It's driven by the number of new customers that Boeing has that really drives the initial provisioning.
And the new customers in '14 are about the same as what we saw in 2013.
We will probably get our first new customer provisioning for the A350 at the end of the year.
So we're looking towards that going forward.
I'm sorry the second part of your question? Intertrade.
Our Intertrade business is growing.
We're on the other side of this recycling phenomenon with our Intertrade business.
And we're buying aircraft doing teardown of those aircraft and moving those parts into the marketplace and we're seeing good growth.
We saw growth in 2013 there and we're projecting similar growth going forward in '14.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thanks Shannon.
We plan to file our Form 10-K in a few weeks so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I wanted to thank all of you for joining us and participating on the conference call today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your participation and have a wonderful day.