Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shawn and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast.
And you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time-to-time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that I'm very pleased with our overall performance for fiscal year 2015 which is highlighted by mid-single digit sales growth and double digit growth in earnings and cash flow which is right in line with our long-term goals.
And our ability to deliver 13% operating cash flow growth and 15% earnings per share growth especially in a year when we were negatively impacted by foreign currency rates and a weaker than expected commercial aftermarket was particularly notable.
As I reflect on the year our performance not only delivered strong results but it also paves the way for future growth.
We announced a number of new program wins and achieved significant milestones on development programs that I expect will continue to drive growth over the next decade.
This was particularly true in Commercial Systems where earlier in the year we announced that Boeing had awarded us a contract to provide our display systems integrated surveillance systems and flight control systems for the 777X providing an important market share gain and completing our suite of the flight decks for Boeing's next-generation airplanes.
And just recently we announced that Boeing had also selected us to provide the avionics gateway server for the 777X which adds another component to our information management strategy.
As a result of these positions the 777X will now rival the 787 in the amount of Rockwell Collins equipment per aircraft.
We also announced that our Pro Line Fusion flight deck was selected by Textron for its next-generation King Air aircraft including the industry's first touchscreen primary flight displays.
In addition we marked a key win with Dassault who chose our advanced cabin management and entertainment systems for its new Falcon Jet 5X and 8X aircraft continuing our role as a sole cabin supplier for its entire new aircraft fleet.
From a development program perspective we saw the Airbus A350 and the Embraer Legacy 500 each achieve their first deliveries during the year.
In addition the Legacy 450 was recently certified.
We're also working on a number of additional development programs that are nearing completion and will enter service in the near future.
The CSeries is nearly complete with its flight test and is expected to enter service during our fiscal year 2016.
And the 737 MAX program appears to be in really good shape and is expected to enter service during our 2017 fiscal year with 1.5 times the Rockwell Collins' content of the current-generation 737.
These are all very important programs for our company and are expected to drive growth over the next several years.
We also strengthened our portfolio of connectivity-related offerings within Commercial Systems during the year.
Our March acquisition of Pacific Avionics helps to ensure Rockwell Collins can offer our customers advanced wireless distribution onboard aircraft strengthening our ability to deliver leading applications through our PES passenger engagement solution.
And in August we acquired ICG or International Communications Group adding the latest generation of Iridium satcom terminals and smart routers to our existing flight deck and cabin connectivity offering.
So as you can see our Commercial Systems business really had a busy year.
And they delivered strong financial results as well posting 6% sales growth and expanding operating margins by 70 basis points.
Moving now to Government Systems I really feel like we hit an inflection point this year.
Despite facing almost $100 million of headwinds associated with the JTRS Manpack program as well as what turned up to be about $40 million of foreign currency impact I was extremely pleased with our sales performance.
In fact on a constant currency basis we actually grew a little in Government Systems this year and continued to maintain our strong operating margins of about 21%.
During the year we announced a number of key contract wins including a $420 million multi-year contract for our ARC-210 advanced airborne software defined radios for the Naval Air Systems Command.
In addition we were awarded a $478 million multi-year contract for the production of MIDS JTRS terminals through our Data Link Solutions joint venture.
And we continued our success in the rotary wing market where we've secured almost all of the future AgustaWestland helicopter programs.
And we were also selected to provide the avionics and mission equipment for the next-generation U.S.
Air Force Combat Rescue Helicopter.
In Government Systems we also achieved a number of critical milestones in development programs this year.
For example we executed on-time development of equipment for the KC-46 the KC-390 both of which achieved their first flights this year.
We also delivered the first Generation III Helmet Mounted Display System for the F-35 through our Rockwell Collins ESA Vision Systems joint venture.
So all-in it was a really good year for our Government Systems as we look to this business growing now in fiscal 2016.
Shifting now to Information Management Service business we delivered double digit growth on the core aviation side of the business and expanded segment operating margins by 200 basis points.
We also met our sales synergy goals for the year.
And I can see real evidence that we're making progress in expanding our connectivity offering.
Some examples include the launch of our live credit card authorization capability with Hong Kong Airlines.
And we unveiled our ARINC MultiLink flight tracking service as well as our ARINC UrgentLink disaster communication network.
UrgentLink actually has a nice synergy with our Government Systems business using our HF communication technology to provide a nation-wide network for disaster recovery communications.
Now turning to fiscal 2016 we're going to experience some near-term challenges particularly in the first half of the year.
Our Government Systems program timing is going to result in declines in the first half and growth in the second half of the fiscal year.
And in Commercial Systems production cuts on the Bombardier Globals will impact the whole fiscal year while growth from our new acquisitions will primarily benefit the second half.
So while it won't be linear I still expect that we will continue to grow our overall business during fiscal 2016 and deliver strong margin and cash flow performance.
And Patrick's going to cover this in a little more detail as he reviews our guidance for fiscal year 2016.
So in summary 2015 was a good year where we executed according to our plan across our three businesses accelerated growth in ways that we expect will continue to enhance our long-term outlook.
And while 2016 is going to be a bit of bump in terms of our overall growth rate I remain optimistic concerning our long-term growth drivers for our company looking forward.
So with that let me turn it over to Patrick to walk us through the financials details.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company fourth quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased $18 million or 1% compared to fourth quarter last year primarily due to the impact of foreign currency rates.
Income from continuing operations increased $11 million or 6%.
And earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.11 or 9% compared to the same period last year.
The rate of increase in earnings per share from continuing operations was more than the rate of income in continuing operations because of the favorable impacts of our share repurchase program.
As we turn to Slide 4 Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $636 million in the quarter about flat with the same period last year.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs decreased $8 million or 2% to $372 million primarily due to lower sales for Chinese regional aircrafts partially offset by higher deliveries in support of the A350 and Legacy 500 entries into service.
Aftermarket sales increased $8 million or 3% primarily due to higher regulatory mandate sales partially offset by lower spares provisioning for the Boeing 787 program.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $5 million or 4% with operating margins improving 90 basis points from 22.1% to 23%.
Operating margin benefited from lower company-funded research and development expense and cost savings initiatives partially offset by higher employee incentive compensation expense.
Moving on to Slide 5 Government Systems revenue decreased by 4% to $581 million driven by lower JTRS Manpack sales lower rotary wing hardware sales and the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar all partially offset by higher tanker/transport hardware deliveries and increased sales from development effort on modernized GPS products.
Government Systems fourth quarter operating earnings decreased $8 million to $129 million resulting in an operating margin of 22.2% compared to the 22.6% in the fourth quarter last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted from: the lower sales volume; higher investment in research and development expense; and higher employee incentive compensation expense partially offset by favorable hardware product mix and cost saving initiatives.
Turning now to Slide 6 Information Management Services sales increased 6% over the prior year as commercial and business aviation services sales increased low double digits partially offset by lower sales from the non-aviation-related businesses due to the timing of certain airport programs and the exit of a government program.
Information Management Services fourth quarter operating earnings increased $8 million to $29 million resulting in an operating margin of 17.4% compared to the 13.3% in the fourth quarter last year.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was due to: higher sales volume; a very favorable mix of higher margin aviation-related sales; and the absence of certain licensing costs incurred in the prior year.
Looking next to Slide 7 we show our full year fiscal 2015 results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
If there's any slide I'd like to pause and reflect on this is the slide.
Fiscal 2015 was a great year for Rockwell Collins.
In a year where we were posted double digit growth in income and earnings per share I was particularly pleased with 13% growth in operating cash flow.
We had a great fourth quarter that led to our highest ever operating cash flow total for any fiscal year in our company's history.
For the full year we generated $749 million of operating cash flow compared to $660 million last year.
The increase in operating cash flow was due to higher earnings coupled with a focus on receivable collections and controlling production inventory as well as lower pre-production engineering spend.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment for the full year.
Total spend increased from $934 million in fiscal 2014 to $986 million in fiscal 2015.
Company-funded R&amp;D increased $4 million due to increased spend associated with positioning Government Systems for new growth opportunities partially offset by lower A350 development cost in Commercial Systems.
Customer-funded research and development expense increased $74 million due to: higher development costs for international programs in Commercial Systems; higher costs for next-generation avionics programs in Government Systems; and higher amortization of pre-production engineering costs.
Pre-production engineering investment net decreased due to lower spending on the A350 program.
Moving to Slide 9 we show the status of our capital structure.
During the fourth quarter we were able to pay down our short-term debt of $297 million going from $745 million at the end of the third quarter to $448 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
Our current debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.7 as detailed on Slide 11.
I believe this level of debt still allows us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and expect to modestly decline by the end of fiscal 2016 as we balance our debt pay-down with share repurchases dividends and hopefully some acquisition opportunities.
Now on to Slide 10 where we provide a summary of our fiscal year 2016 financial guidance which is unchanged from our initial fiscal 2016 guidance issued in September.
Commercial Systems sales are expected to grow low single digits as high single digit growth in air transport is expected to be offset by a decline in the mid-single digits for business and regional due primarily to the production cuts on the Global 5000 and 6000.
Government Systems sales are expected to be up low single digits paced by mid-single digit international growth and a relatively flat U.S.
DoD sales.
And Information Management Services are expected to grow high single digits.
Now before I move on I wanted to talk through some dynamics that will impact our sales between the first and second half of fiscal 2016 in Commercial Systems and Government Systems.
Within Commercial Systems because of the impact of lower Global production rates in the first half and timing of entries into service we're expecting a relatively flattish first half of the year in Commercial Systems.
In the second half of the year we should get some additional benefit from rates increasing on the 787 and narrow-body aircraft at Airbus.
In addition we get more benefit in the second half as the A350 and Embraer Legacies accelerate their rates and we begin to see initial CSeries production.
The acquisitions that we've completed in fiscal 2015 particularly the Pacific Avionics' wireless distribution business is also expected to ramp its production in the second half of the year.
So what does this mean? Most all of our growth for the year in Commercial Systems will be back-end weighted.
Within Government Systems we expect tanker/transport sales to be relatively flat in the first half and accelerate in the second half primarily due to a few international C-130 upgrade programs.
In other avionics programs we expect the first half to be down and the back half of fiscal 2016 will benefit from the timing of simulation and training programs as well as a Black program.
We also expect surface sales to be down in the first half of the year due to lower targeting system revenues electronic intelligence programs and expect these programs to be relatively flat in the second half of the year compared to fiscal 2015.
What does this mean to overall Government Systems? We will likely be down mid-single digits in the first half of the year and expect all of our growth will be in the back half of the year.
Another area that will impact our first and second half fiscal year 2016 is our effective income tax rate.
As we noted in our fiscal 2016 guidance issued in September we expect the fiscal 2016 effective tax rate to be about 28%.
And we're exploring a number of potential tax savings opportunities that will likely impact our tax rate in the second half of the year.
As a result we expect some lumpiness in the quarterly tax rate with it being in the range of 33% for the first two quarters and lower in the back half of the year.
Just as a reminder our guidance assumes that we will not get any benefit from the Federal R&amp;D tax credit.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections so Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we will answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
Thank you.
And your first question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
If you can review maybe what makes you comfortable with your aftermarket outlook for 2016 be it that aftermarket seems like it's been all over the place for everybody.
How do you feel comfortable with your outlook and then how do you make us feel comfortable with it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we certainly adjusted our outlook based on the results we've seen through fiscal 2015.
And there's no question that we saw a softer aftermarket than we originally guided to in fiscal 2015.
So if you look at what we're forecasting the air transport we said high single digit overall for air transport growth.
I think that's going to be relatively balanced between OEM and aftermarket in terms of growth rates.
We've got some pretty good demand good visibility on HUD retrofits in the air transport market.
That'll drive some of that somewhat offset by reduced demand on some of the mandate revenues.
We also see in the second half that as Patrick said much of the growth of the acquisitions is in the second half and much of that comes through the aftermarket as they're doing aftermarket retrofits.
We've been pretty conservative in our outlook for the MRO component.
I think as you know the MRO in bus av really tracks with the utilization.
And air transport we have seen recycling this past year.
I think that's going to continue.
We've got that factored into our forecast but we are seeing pretty good demand because we are also in the used parts business with our Intertrade.
So we're offsetting some of that softer recycling MRO by actually selling used components.
So I think we're going to see pretty flat to low single digit growth in the overall sparing for the year.
And I think we've taken into account our experiences here this past year and forecasted those in our outlook here going forward.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about CapEx.
And this is not meant to pick at all but the number for the year $210 million came in a little higher than the $200 million guidance.
You guided for $200 million again this year.
It's up around 4% of sales.
Is that mostly in the ARINC business? And if so where is it? What is the trajectory like as we look out further from here? Yeah Seth I'd say the uptick has certainly been in the ARINC business.
And I think what you're going to see is probably holding steady around $200 million for the next few years.
We've substantially increased the investment in ARINC compared to what they had prior to our ownership.
And it's really funding a number of different growth areas for us.
So although I don't expect that spending to decline materially I also don't see it increasing over the course of the next few years.
So I think at $200 million as being a pretty good benchmark for the next few years.
Great thanks.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So related bus jet class gen's first Bombardier I guess said that they're throwing in the towel on the Lear 85.
When would you expect to get reimbursement for your deferred engineering there? And secondly can we expect any announcement of new product wins on your part at NBAA? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well okay so we have about $27 million on the books associated with the Lear 85 program.
This termination will trigger the reimbursement of that.
I don't know off the top of my head the payment terms of it.
I mean we just heard that as well.
So we'll be exercising that here over the next quarter.
What was the second question? Anything new wins at NBAA? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nothing that I'm going to preannounce in the call today.
Well I don't want you to preannounce it but are we likely to have any announcements? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We always have announcements Cai at NBAA.
Okay terrific.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is now open.
Thanks much.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rob.
Morning.
Hi.
Kelly I was wondering if you could comment on the Government Systems outlook and what you've factored into this in relation to what's going in D.C.
Did you imagine there was going to be a full year CR or this budget deal or anything else like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Our baseline plan was that we would have a one quarter CR and a budget deal before Christmas.
And generally a one quarter CR doesn't have any full year impact to our overall revenue forecast.
If you recall a couple of years ago that was extended beyond the quarter and we did see some impact.
So that was the baseline assumption.
The budget deal is a good outcome here.
We now need to get the appropriators together and get this CR budget complete and appropriations complete before Christmas which it looks like that's going to happen.
I don't think the fact that we got a little bit of budget above the sequester level probably is not going to have much impact to us in 2016 but certainly bolsters our long-term outlook for growth in our government business for domestic programs.
Okay.
A quick follow-up if I may the LRSB announcement the other day I don't know if you can comment on this but does that have any impact on your forecast? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We can make no comment on that.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Myles.
Are you there? Myles Walton? Inc.</span></strong> Sorry yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First question I had was on you've mentioned the 1.5 times content on the MAX versus the NG in the 737.
You made a comment on the 777X rivaling the 787.
Can you put the 777X relative to the current 777? Is it a similar 50% increase in content or any measure you can put around it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's roughly two times our current content.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> 2X.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then the other one funded backlog you usually report at year-end for Defense.
And I'm curious what dynamic that saw at year end to give us an indicator of forward-looking and also whether the Black program that Patrick mentioned is already in that backlog? Thanks.
Yeah actually when you look at the 10-K disclosure you're going to see the funded backlog on the government side of the business come down just a little bit.
That's actually masking some growth and it's largely due to the effect of foreign currency.
I think absent the foreign currency we would have grown backlog a little bit.
I think with the foreign currency impact you're actually going to see it shrink just a little bit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Sheila Kahyaoglu from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Could you maybe delve into the performance in IMS? You mentioned favorable mix in the quarter and maybe how we should think about the profitability outlook for the segment going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the way I'd describe it Sheila is that was an unusually profitable quarter for us.
I don't see that recurring.
We had a couple of favorable adjustments on some programs in the networks business that yielded very high profitability.
So I think probably a couple hundred basis points of that was related to I'll say those revenue adjustments on those programs that aren't likely to recur.
And just a quick follow-up if I may on business jet aftermarket it was up 7 what's your strength there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we did see a little bit better utilization.
And we saw on the MRO side and on the discretionary side a pretty good uptick in mandate-related updates TCAS particularly.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Sam.
Can you guys talk a little bit about the CSeries? Just with the announcements yesterday I guess two pieces; one the company had talked about 15 to 20 deliveries in the next year.
I'm just wondering how does that compare to the plans for production that you have in your 2016 outlook.
And then separately with regards to the pre-production engineering does Bombardier's write-down affect your assessment of those capitalized costs and your ability to recoup those costs over the same number of units? What I'd say is first of all with respect to our assumptions in the plan I'd say the Bombardier announcement certainly solidifies the number of aircraft we had in the plan.
If there's any upside it's pretty modest to the plan there Sam.
And as it relates to the deferred engineering it really doesn't change our view of the collectability of that deferred engineering.
Again we had different assumptions with respect to the number of CSeries aircraft than Bombardier going into the program.
And so we have not reassessed that at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi David.
Two questions; first one when you guys announced your fiscal 2016 guidance you talked about I think it was $10 million to $15 million in restructuring.
Can you detail exactly what that's going to? And is that actually are any savings included in your guidance for this year? And then the second question Patrick could you just walk us give us a bridge from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2016 operating cash flo? It looks like you're forecasting relatively – I mean you have a range but mid-point relatively flat.
Thanks.
Yeah.
As it relates to restructuring we disclosed in our guidance $0.10 to $0.15 of restructuring.
And that's largely severance costs.
Now the reason why we posted a range is there is a bit of uncertainty with respect to the take-up rate of a voluntary early retirement program that we're currently in the middle of.
So although it's difficult to assess the impact I would say the take-up rates to-date has been pretty good.
And I would say we're going to be at the high end of that $0.10 to $0.15 range maybe even a little bit above that range.
Now as it relates to savings incorporated we did incorporate some estimated savings in our guidance as well.
However obviously the pick-up rate's higher.
We may have a little bit of incremental savings as well that we can flow into the numbers.
So we did have an estimated charge plus some estimated savings which will true-up here in the first quarter.
And I think by the time we release earnings for the first quarter we should be able to give you a pretty good sense as to where that restructuring charge and the resulting savings is going to be.
As it relates to cash flow the number that we posted you're right.
The midpoint's about $750 million about flat.
It does mask some improvement particularly in deferred engineering.
And what's causing that to be masked is largely on the income tax line.
As I mentioned in my remarks we're not assuming the benefit of our R&amp;D tax credit.
That provided pretty substantial both earnings and cash benefit in FY 2015.
And although we're able to offset the earnings impact through some tax planning strategies that I referenced those aren't going to come with a resulting cash benefit at least not immediately.
We'll get the cash benefit over time.
And so we're going to have a substantial increase in cash taxes year-over-year.
And that's what's masking the cash flow improvement.
Patrick in terms of our modeling so we should assume the restructuring charge comes through in Q1 and then the savings occur as we go throughout the year? That's a very good assumption yeah.
We'll have the charge and then won't have much of any savings in the first quarter and the savings will bleed out over the next three quarters.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Kelly I wanted to ask sort of a high altitude question if I could but with many of your development programs entering service over the next few years so you've got the A350 some of the Boeing work MAX 777X tanker.
Do we at some point enter into a bit of an R&amp;D holiday assuming that there aren't a lot of newer programs behind those and that this could change the slope for your earnings growth at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we talked about the cash flow tailwind we're going to get associated with that where we're going to see a reduction in deferred engineering spend associated with a lot of those programs.
So yes that is going to come down.
I'm expecting our expensed R&amp;D to continue to stay pretty level as a percent of sales.
Now remember we're putting things like the 777X now we're expensing that.
So there'll be some program expense there.
But we're a technology differentiating company.
We're going to continue to invest in new features and functions that we can sell into the aftermarket and stay competitively ahead of the game.
So I don't think you'll see from an expensed R&amp;D any kind of a tailwind there.
I think we're going to keep that relatively flat.
Okay.
And then just an unrelated not really a follow-up but just another quick question with the activity that you're seeing at Intertrade does this give you any kind of read-through to what's been plaguing aftermarket? And is there a point at which Intertrade slows down enough to suggest that the glut in the surplus market might revert to more strength in traditional aftermarket? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it has given us a lot of visibility to what's going on.
And it's the parts recycling and there's a couple of components to that.
I think we've got aggregators in the market.
And when you have aggregators they can service more aircraft with fewer spares.
And I think you're seeing that across the industry that the aggregators are having effect on historical spares' sales levels.
And then I think using used parts initially started out as a U.S.-based cost-cutting measure.
I think it's now turned into a best practice.
In fact in the last quarter we've seen some international customers who historically only bought new spares now using recycled components in their MRO.
So I think that's here to stay.
And I don't think we're going to see that turn off in the short-term.
The trick for our Intertrade business is just making sure that we're buying the right components that have the right demand.
And as the aircraft retire we're going to continue to focus on making sure we're buying those right components.
In most cases we've got a good portion of our business case sold before we actually buy the aircraft and start tearing it down.
So given the global expansion of that activity is this a business you'd like to grow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's why we have it.
I think it's a good offset.
It doesn't come with near the margin that selling new spares and componentry does but it is something.
It's being growing double digit.
And I am expecting it's going to grow double digit here in 2016 as well.
So yeah it's a big component of our overall aftermarket strategy.
Okay.
Thanks Kelly.
Your next question comes from Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rich.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to know if you could discuss maybe the progress you're making in connectivity solutions with respect to your partners Global Xpress OneWeb and Iridium.
In 2015 Kelly you talked a lot about the flight tracker and the inflight credit card reader.
Do you have anything that's cropped up that you would like to highlight here as a meaningful opportunity you're seeing for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well.
Yeah.
Let me give you an update on GX.
This is the new broadband service provided by Inmarsat.
We've captured our first two customers as a service provider where we'll be putting the equipment on the aircraft getting the STC and then have the service so that's well underway.
And I'm pretty excited about that.
I think that's one of these synergy areas that's going to continue to grow.
We've got a lot of proposals in works providing connectivity solutions and services so both the equipment and the connectivity going forward.
So I think that's playing out about as we expected and it's going to be a big component of the synergy growth.
If you recall we said about $10 million of synergy last year out of our IMS business.
In fact we achieved about $12 million.
Next year that goes to $20 million.
So we got a step-up of $10 million.
And I think connectivity is going to be a big component of that.
Now we also as I mentioned in my comments acquired ICG.
ICG provides the new radio set that we also are a value-added reseller of the service.
So we'll be able to go to market for full-end solutions with our customers there as well.
And we've got a lot of proposal activity underway.
We have transitioned from a trial phase on our global tracking to a revenue-generating phase.
We did about a little less than a six month trial with nine leading customers airlines and we're now through that.
That's been very successful and we'll move that to the revenue-generating phase of the program going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee CRT.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning Kelly Patrick Ryan.
Kelly I guess on IMS you continue to make great progress there on the aviation-related businesses.
You kind of label them as non-aviation portion as kind of holding or at least offsetting some of that growth.
Are these non-core businesses or are they just complementing to the overall IMS business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well they weren't the subject of the acquisition.
Let me put it that way.
And what we've been doing this past year is focusing on how we can make those businesses less lumpy less project-based and more sustained revenue.
So they have not grown quite as fast as I had expected when we first made the acquisition.
This is going to be a big year for us because we've got out of some activities that we didn't want to continue.
We've refocused those businesses.
We're now off selling Positive Train Control as a service as opposed to a one-time NRE project.
And so I think this is going to be a big year for us.
And I'm expecting to see those segments have better growth than what you saw here this past year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Patrick I wondered if you could give us just a little bit of color on the IMS sort of more granular trends.
I think you had a tough compare in the airports and rail piece for this quarter but obviously the aggregate number was good.
I wondered if you might just give us some detail on what those pieces look like and what the trends look like especially in the bus jet flight planning stuff given what we're seeing in terms of utilization in the market right now? Thanks.
Yeah Carter what I think you'll see next year is probably a more steady growth from the IMS business.
You're right.
We've seen kind of a lot of lumpiness with respect to the non-aviation business.
And as we've sort of lined out IMS by quarter unlike the other two businesses it's going to be pretty steady growth quarter-to-quarter year-over-year.
And the way I'd characterize it as being high single digit growth; again still stronger growth in the business and air transport aviation-related segment and slightly lower growth in the non-aviation-related the airports rail and security over fiscal 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Carter I'd just add to that that we've had that good growth in spite of some pretty significant headwinds in a number of international trips going in and out of China Russia and Brazil.
Both those areas have been headwinds just because of the economic situation in those regions but we've continued to grow that business in spite of that and we expect that will continue.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color.
And Kelly as a follow-up to Rob's question were you happy on Tuesday night or could you have been happier? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I have no comment.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
I wanted to pursue it looked like your 2015 revenue growth was slightly below the low end of the guidance that you gave in mid-September.
It would seem that that's due to the business jet OE.
And if that's true I was just wondering what happened that you weren't able to foresee it with only a couple of weeks left in the year.
And then the follow up is since you didn't change your revenue growth for 2016 versus 2015 does that imply at this point that we're probably at the lower end of the guidance range that you put out? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know George as we close the year if there's something that didn't meet my expectations it was not the business aviation revenue it was actually Government Systems.
We had a contract for the installation and equipment associated with the KC-135 Block 45 update.
That was planned to be a very late in the year award and then immediate sale of the equipment.
We did get the contract but it came in at a lower number of aircraft than we had anticipated.
And so if I look at where we finished up our revenue was a little light a little disappointing from our government business going forward.
That's also going to have a little bit of a challenge for us in 2016 because what they chose to do is modify less of the aircraft.
This is a multi-year mod program.
And they've kind of put those aircraft at the end of the program.
If KC-46 can accelerate those may go away which in the end I don't know that that wouldn't be that good news for us but it is going to push some aircraft to the right.
So it really wasn't a surprise in bus av it was more a surprise in government business.
Yeah.
And I'd just add I wouldn't read too much into the impact on FY 2016 guidance.
It wasn't a very significant miss for us and I think we're still well within the range of what we communicated in September.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
Just going back to the IMS segment Kelly you've spoken in the past about bandwidth being a gating factor to growth and that expectations of the longer-term was that there was going to be more availability of bandwidth for you to provide even more interesting services.
Can you talk a little bit about where we are with regard to that bandwidth? I know that there was a launch during the third quarter.
I'm just wondering if that's going to have any material impact for that business over the next year or two.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that was my comment on the Global Xpress.
That is the broadband communication capability that is just coming online.
We're just going through the process of winning the launch customers as I mentioned the two.
But what we have to do is we have to go – it's a new radio that goes on the airplane before we can initiate service.
We have to go get that radio integrated and certified on each aircraft type.
So that will happen throughout year.
And by the way we're not the only one doing that.
Honeywell is doing that for example as well.
All bringing this broadband connectivity into the market so you'll see that grow over the next couple of years.
It's not going to be a one and – it's not going to be a big bang because it does take time to first of all book the STCs in place.
And then second of all get the retrofits all lined up and get the airlines lined up to do those retrofits.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And Kelly at one point will all new aircraft go out the door at the OEM level with those radios already installed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's going to be a few years yet.
The OEMs are looking at a forward fit or line fit certification of this kind of capability but currently they aren't operable as standard equipment on any of the forward fit aircraft.
I would guess and this is just kind of a rough guess I would guess over the next three years that will all change.
And they'll cut in and we'll be delivering those as selectable equipment.
Typically broadband connectivity even today has been selectable by the airline.
It's not necessarily standard.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ciabattoni from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Kelly how are you thinking about the 777 at this point as it relates to a potential rate cut in your outlook for this year and longer-term? I mean we had Boeing say it could possibly go as low as seven a month.
I know you mentioned you had kind of different assumptions about the CSeries versus what Bombardier had just kind of wondering if that applies to 777 as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well for this year we've assumed that they sustained rates for fiscal 2016.
And by the way they would have to cut rates here within the next quarter probably to have any impact on our 2016.
So the real question is how many aircraft in our fiscal 2017 and we've got a little time before we're providing 2017 guidance on that.
I suspect we'll have a better handle when we do put that guidance out.
Typically this is an area where we do align pretty closely to what the OEM is saying.
We don't find much variability.
So I'd listen to what Boeing says and assume that's going to flow through to us.
By the way the existing 777 is a pretty high BFE content airplane for us.
So it's not – a rate cut will have some impact on us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from Ken Herbert from Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Kelly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to follow up on the business jet discussion.
I mean I know when you provided guidance for business jet OE down low double digit you had a fair amount of conservatism and probably realism baked into your guidance even just beyond obviously what we've seen at Bombardier.
Has anything happened in the last month and a half two months since you gave the guidance that may have eaten into some of this conservatism or some of the buffer you had or are you still seeing things as you saw them on the OE side specifically with business jet considering all the news we've had recently relative to two months ago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all the predominance of the low double digit decline was the Globals then as we said...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We provided some additional well what I'll call general discount to the mid to light going into the year.
No haven't seen that necessarily consumed.
But I'm also – we're just starting and market conditions have been generally soft.
I will say that the announcements or the earnings calls since we put out guidance haven't indicated significant weakness in production rates.
So hopefully I'm wrong and won't need the discount but I think it's prudent given the history we've seen.
And utilization rates just have not been very strong and backlogs still are relatively weak so we'll have to see how that plays out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just then as a follow up you had a good quarter and I know you talked about this for business jet aftermarket were there any specific sort of one-time items in the quarter that maybe pulled that forward a little bit? And I know obviously you're still sticking to the low single digit outlook for 2016 but any commentary and more detail on the quarter would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what really drove in the quarter was mandate-related activity.
We've got a couple of new FANS which are navigation system updates that we've got certified and will enter into the market and we started to see a little bit of that.
But I'd say the good quarter was from a discretionary perspective was predominantly the mandate-related activity.
That mandate activity is going to – is not going to grow in 2016.
That will probably be a little bit of a headwind for us going forward into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Yeah just two quick follow ups what would the growth have been in the large OE aftermarket if you took out the 787 provisioning? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
I guess about mid-single digits.
Because I would think in 2016 that negative issue isn't going to be there because I would assume it's probably compensating...
Yeah I would agree.
We've sort of reached a steady state run rate on 787 sparing.
So I agree with you.
I don't think that's going to be a headwind next year for us.
And then just one quick one Patrick how much higher was incentive comp roughly at the commercial and government areas? It was $16 million in total George split basically 50%-50% between the two businesses so $8 million each.
$16 million? Yeah.
$16 million Patrick you said? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
$16 million yes.
Thanks.
Yeah thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Patrick the Q1 restructuring will that run through Commercial Systems? No.
The restructuring charge itself we'll treat as outside of segment operating earnings.
That's what we typically do.
Okay.
And then just a question on the pre-production I think a while back you had a chart that showed pre-production coming down a fair amount in 2016 and looks like it's not going to come down as much now.
Can you talk about what the additional spending is going towards? I think it's coming down about $40 million year-over-year.
I'm trying to remember the chart you're talking about.
I suspect there is incremental spending largely on things like the CSeries and Globals because both of those programs have been delayed.
Yeah.
The chart you had I think this from your Investor Day whenever you had your last one and looked like the spend was around $100 million and the now spend ex-amortization looks like it's around $150 million.
Is that right? I was thinking more like $140 million.
But yeah I do think the vast majority of the additional spend is related to those Bombardier programs.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just a couple of questions on government the JTRS Manpack program I think is set for an award in the January or February timeframe.
Do you guys have a sense of how many awardees they are going to be and would a win positively impact your fiscal 2016? And then just I was wondering if there are any other meaningful competitive opportunities on the government side that we should look out for.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that one is a very meaningful competition for us but not for 2016.
They are going to select multiple suppliers.
By the way the proposals have been submitted so they're in the source selection process right now.
They'll select multiple suppliers two or three has been the indication that we have.
That somewhat is dependent on the compliance level of the proposals that go in.
But part of that program includes once you're selected you provide prototype radios to the Army and then they go through a test and evaluation program before they turn around and buy quantities of radios so all the revenues will be outside of our fiscal 2016.
In terms of other big programs in Government Systems we got quite a few international C-130 update programs that should come to source selection here in the next six months so that a space to watch because we are anticipating some of that will drive growth for us in the second half.
And then we have just the significant quantity of smaller level programs.
I will say it was nice to get both the ARC-210 and the MIDS IDIQs in place so that we can get the annual buys bought against those.
And again those are – our 210's going to drive some growth for us as well as the data link.
The MIDS is a data link.
That will drive some growth for us in 2016 as well.
We've got the base contract but we need to get the annual buys then in place against those base contracts.
We're also seeing some uptick in GPS modernized GPS awards.
And so that's another space to watch over the year because I am anticipating some pretty good growth in that area as well.
Well thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi again.
I just wanted to ask about 757 767 cockpit retrofit and what the activity level has been there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we had good growth last year with some launch customers.
We're working a couple of campaigns right now nothing yet that I can announce but we are expecting to continue to also see growth in 2016 with that large-format display retrofit program.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hey thanks for the follow up guys.
Kelly in your prepared remarks you talked about you're making some investments for new opportunities in Defense right.
So that kind of begs the question if you can answer it does long range strike bomber benefit you guys or not? And then what other future opportunities are you investing in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well no comment on the first program.
Obviously the JTRS program which we've got to bring pretty much a non-development item radio to the table so that's quite an investment.
And then we're continuing to always invest in next-generation capability particularly as we're bringing commercial flight decks into the military market.
So for example some of the rotary wing applications that I talked about typically what we need to do is bring fusion components but militarize those.
And we'll spend R&amp;D doing that militarization work so that we can be competitive in bringing those commercial technologies into that military market.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And your final question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the follow up.
The question is in 2016 if you can comment on Commercial Systems growth it looks organically like maybe it's flat.
Ex-Bombardier what would the growth look like? And number two pro forma for 2016 how much of your revenue is Bombardier at this point? Thanks.
I would say ex-Bombardier we're talking about mid-single digit growth for Commercial Systems on an organic basis.
As it relates to total Bombardier revenues it's probably under 5% of the total our total revenue at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back to Mr.
Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Shawn.
We plan to file our Form 10-K in about three weeks so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us today and participating on the conference call.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.