Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer of Williams Controls you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2012 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflects management's views as of today February 07 2012 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2011 annual report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2012 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2012 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulations increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fiscal 2012 first quarter investor conference call.
This morning we released our financial results for our fiscal first quarter that ended December 31st 2011.
I'm in the Williams Controls office in Sauerlach Germany this afternoon which is just south of Munich while Dennis is in our Portland office.
First of all to start out today I'd like to thank our staff in the European office for safely getting me down to Austria and back in a blinding snowstorm through the Alps to visit one of our new off-road customers.
I flew into Munich from India on Sunday morning after spending a week visiting customers in our plant in Pune India.
I continue to be really excited about the opportunities for Williams in India.
While our Indian operation has been a drag on earnings for the last few quarters I'm confident that we are going to look back at the decision to establish operations in India as one of the best strategic moves the Company has made.
Establishing operations in India ahead of any of our competition combined with the launch of our new LCV light commercial vehicle pedal in India has established Williams as the unquestioned leader in this market.
We have a significant share of the light medium and heavy commercial vehicle market in India for electronic pedals.
It's not to say that we won't face tough competition down the road as our competitors decide to locate in India but having established a world-class manufacturing facility combined with in-country component sourcing and customer engineering support ahead of our competition has established us as a formidable competitor in this market.
During my visit to India I met with the director of strategic sourcing for a large manufacturer of trucks at our plant in Pune.
He told me that at the present time 19 metro areas in India have moved to BS4 emission regulation standards.
In most cases this standard drives the use of electronic engines and pedals.
That means that any new vehicles registered in those metro areas will have electronic engines and pedals.
As a practical matter if a truck owner can register his vehicle outside those areas for now he probably will but buses typically don't have a choice.
Over the next 24 months he expects that we'll see all of India transition to BS4 standards with several manufacturers actually transitioning early.
To give you a sense of the size of the market recent reports are projecting the April 2011 to March 2012 which is the Indian fiscal year the volumes will be around 746 000 light medium and heavy commercial vehicles being sold and over 400 000 of those will be light commercial vehicles.
This is compared to 676 000 light medium and heavy commercial vehicles in the comparable period last year.
While the size of the market is significant it's going to be a competitive market.
Many international truck OEMs are rushing to establish a presence in capacity in India such as Daimler India Isuzu MAN Volvo Eicher Mahindra Navistar Foton and others.
Today the majority of our competition for electric pedals in India mainly consists of our Asian and European competitors' products shipped in from outside of India.
But our customers must localize their supply base inside of India to be competitive because of the high duties logistics costs shipping and low Indian labor rates.
This gives our operation in India a very distinct advantage over our competition and it's also an opportunity for future business outside of India with OEMs that we're currently not doing business with now.
In our fiscal first quarter in India our plant shipped over 11 000 pedals with over 5 500 shipped in December.
In our fiscal second quarter which ends in March we are expecting to ship over 40 000 units to our key customers from our plant in India.
We expect to see these volumes continue to grow throughout the year in India.
As I mentioned in our last call in December we moved from the NASDAQ to the NYSE Amex because we think it will provide a better trading platform for our investors.
In the last 30 trading days the average daily trading volume of our stock has increased by 3 100 shares or 60% compared to the previous 30 days before we listed on the NYSE Amex and the spreads have typically been smaller.
I'm hopeful that this will continue and the trading volume will continue to grow.
I noticed yesterday that over 50 000 shares traded and our month – one month average is almost 10 000 shares.
Sales for our fiscal first quarter which ended December 31st 2011 increased $1.9 million or 14% to $15.5 million from $13.6 million for the comparable period last year.
Sales in North America were up 39% compared to the same quarter last year driven by a 46% increase in off-highway sales and a 58% increase in truck sales.
This was offset somewhat by slower growth in our aftermarket distribution and bus segments.
Sales in Europe were down 13% from the comparable quarter last year while off-highway sales in Europe were up 13%.
Overall truck sales in Europe were down 28% primarily because one of our major European customers was working through some supply chain issues which have been resolved in January.
While we experienced some growth in new truck sales in Turkey and Russia and with an off-road customer in Italy I expect sales in Europe this year to be flat as a result of the economic uncertainty.
Our Asian sales were down 29% for the quarter compared to last year primarily as a result of a 68% decrease in sales to a major OEM in Korea.
I've addressed this issue before as we periodically see some very large changes in ordering patterns in Korea as a result of our customer's product mix their inventory levels and production scheduling.
We are back to normal levels this quarter with this customer in Korea.
Our global off-highway sales increased by 35% primarily because of a 46% increase in North America as a result of two newly introduced products and to a lesser extent we had a 13% increase in Europe and China as a result of further market penetration of electronic engines in the off-highway market and improving market conditions.
I'll now turn the call over to Dennis Bunday to discuss our financial performance for the quarter.
Dennis? Thank you Pat.
First quarter net income was $1 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to net income of $644 000 or $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
The 57% quarter-over-quarter improvement was mostly due to the $2 million or 14.5% increase in sales.
The quarter also benefited by a $145 000 or a $0.02 per diluted share reduction in the Company's environmental accrual.
In our first fiscal quarter the State of Oregon Department of Environmental Quality modified allowable exposure levels for certain contaminants which has reduced the amount of remediation we will be required to perform at our Portland facility and the amount necessary for a cleanup provision.
At the end of the quarter we have $635 000 as a provision on our balance sheet for the remediation of our Portland facility.
Although we are confident that India will ultimately be a successful investment it continues to be a slight drag on earnings as we continue with our startup.
During the quarter the India loss was $250 000 or $0.03 per share.
This loss is exaggerated a bit as accounting standards require that we do not recognize a tax benefit on the loss at this time.
The upside on the tax provision is that when we do start to show a pattern of consistent earnings in India we will be able to absorb – we will be able to recognize the India income tax-free until the tax loss is fully absorbed.
For the quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 304 057 and fully diluted shares were 7 494 174.
At quarter-end we have 7 307 788 shares outstanding.
First quarter 2012 gross profits were $4.9 million a 13.8% improvement over the first quarter of last year.
For this year's first quarter gross margins were 31.5% of sales compared to 31.7% in the first quarter of last year.
Supply chain issues with one of our suppliers resulted in higher air freight costs which impacted the gross margin by about one full percentage point.
Manufacturing overhead was slightly lower in the quarter compared to the first quarter of last year.
$40 000 of higher costs related to ramping up India was more than offset by lower general operating costs in both Portland and Suzhou.
Material costs' edge are higher as price increases that were imposed by some suppliers worked their way through in the quarter.
However those increases were mitigated by a favorable sales mix.
Operating expenses which include engineering and development sales and administration were down $300 000 compared to last year's first quarter but excluding a couple of isolated items in both quarters were essentially at the same level quarter-to-quarter.
This year's first quarter included the $225 000 credit for the reduction in the environmental accrual and last year's first quarter had expenses of $150 000 related to a potential acquisition that we decided to terminate during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 while in due diligence.
Excluding these items operating expenses were about level.
Sales expenses were up as we increased our presence in Europe to take care of the increasing opportunities in that region.
Offsetting the higher selling expenses were slightly lower engineering and administrative costs.
The blended tax rate for the quarter was 37.7% which is a bit higher than normal.
The most significant factor for the higher rate was that consistent with accounting requirements we did not provide the tax benefit on the India loss for the quarter.
That increased our tax rate by about 5 percentage points.
Excluding the India impact the tax rate would have been about 32.7% which is within our expected ranges.
Although not booking an India tax provision cost us about $0.01 per share in the quarter we will be able to recognize the benefit at some point in the future when we establish consistent earnings pattern in India.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended the quarter with a slight net borrowing position of $1.2 million consisting of $1.4 million in cash and $2.6 million in short-term revolver borrowings.
We do not have any long-term debt.
EBITDA which consists of operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock compensation expense contributed $2.5 million.
Our net debt position increased $900 000 during the quarter.
However the first quarter is when we normally pay a number of once yearly payments including property taxes annual bonuses and insurance payments and the decline in cash is not unexpected.
In addition we paid our regular quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share in December which used approximately $900 000 of cash.
Although our net debt position increased $900 000 during the quarter we believe that our $1.4 million in cash and $4.6 million of U.S.
revolver availability will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs in the near future.
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $537 000 and non-cash compensation expense – stock compensation expense was $209 000.
CapEx for the quarter was a very light $260 000.
This is nothing more than timing and I expect we will spend approximately $2 million to $2.5 million on CapEx this year so spending will have to be higher in subsequent quarters.
This overall should be a relatively normal year for capital spending.
Last year was a bit higher at $2.8 million due to the number of new projects and the opening of our India facility but over the last three years we have averaged about $2.3 million per year.
Today we announced our regular quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share payable on February 28 to shareholders of record on February 21.
On one final note you may have seen in January we received a reprimand letter from the New York Stock Exchange stating we did not notify the Exchange 10 days before the record date of our Annual Meeting record date.
This was simply a clerical error on our side of a record date notification for a routine annual meeting.
All of our mailings to our stockholders and filings with the SEC related to our Annual Meeting were made on a timely basis and the NYSE considers this matter closed.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator instructions).
We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q&amp;A roster.
Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Berry with Lane Five Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Hello gents.
Matthew.
Hi.
Okay.
I have a few questions.
So if I start waffling on then maybe I'll just hop back in the queue and ask more later.
First up I want to try and strip out the effects of these sort of temporary issues in Europe and Korea.
So with regard to Europe first those issues are now reversed is that correct as of January? Yes.
Okay.
So what – and that impacted margins in terms of air freight? Is that – is the air freight issue continuing or is that –? That really didn't affect air freight at all.
Air freight was another issue.
Okay.
Basically the customer issue was this.
In their logistics program they ended up ordering a lot of product last year and then no product in the last quarter and now they are back to normal this quarter.
Any air freight it – that's associated with that customer they are paying for.
Okay.
Okay and in – also the other issue I have just looking at Europe is trying to tease out what is temporary ordering issues the supply chain issues versus what is a macro demand issue because everybody is rather worried about Europe generally.
So could you elaborate a little bit on Europe sales and how much of the issue is just temporary and how much is more demand related? Well I can only really speak Matthew to our business and we are expecting and I think we've said in a couple of different times that we expect our sales in Europe to be flat with last year.
And we expect the truck market to be down this year but we expect some of our new business with truck customers in Turkey and Russia and some other places to be up which will kind of offset the downturn in the European market.
And so we think we are going to be about flat.
Okay.
Korea that – is the mix back to normal as of now? Yes.
Okay.
Actually it's back.
It seems to be more than – a little bit more than back.
What happened Matthew is something like this.
Our Korean customers ship product to various locations around the world and periodically they will have a large order that will go to a location that is not emission regulated.
So they will build a slew of trucks in one quarter or a month that are going to a location that do not require electronic engines or pedals.
And this has happened less and less frequently lately but periodically it happens.
And so that will affect – it will affect the – their ordering pattern and we know this quarter they are – looking at January and February they are back to normal.
Okay.
So if we were to ignore the temporary effects in Europe and Korea with regards to customers and product mixes and so on how much higher would sales have been in the first quarter? Yes probably a $0.5 million to $0.75 million.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Now one other thing I wanted to ask about India thank you for – Matthew you should note though that the – our first fiscal quarter is typically our very weakest quarter of the year.
I know; I understand that.
I'm just trying to tease out a little bit the impact of the temporary issues versus anything else.
In terms of profitability thank you for splitting out the India operating loss because that helps us understand the tax provision issue.
I see things are ramping up and you seem very excited Pat which is good to hear.
How long do you see at sort of current rates of anticipated ramp-up? How long do you see until you guys hit like a breakeven on an operating profit basis? I knew I was going to get asked that question Matthew.
A couple of factors.
Number one I think I mentioned in the last conference call that we had in December from the New York Stock Exchange that one of the items that we are working through right now is we think it's absolutely critical to our success and the success of our customers in the market to locally source our component products.
Identified sources back in last year we are going through all of the qualification and certification processes and I'm assured by our staff that in May or June of the majority of the products that we'll be selling in India will be locally sourced.
Our – as I mentioned we are very very conservative as far as the way we manage the business.
I had qualified suppliers around the world that supplied the Indian operation.
I didn't want to not open a new plant and then bring on a whole bunch of new suppliers and try and get it all qualified and do it all at the same time.
We brought on the new supplier or we brought on the new plant with qualified existing suppliers that we are very comfortable with.
That cost us more money because it's about a 20% – there's about 20% duty on parts coming in on average plus the freight and so on.
So making a long story short we are going to be – by the time we get to May/June we are going to be using components sourced in India which will help our margin okay? And that is something that we planned and we talked to our customers about from the beginning.
It was going to be a transition issue till we got to that point.
So at the same time our business is growing very quickly there.
We've won a number of new pieces of business because of our kind of first mover advantage and I would expect that we should be generating a profit by the first quarter of next year; in others words a year from now.
Okay.
Okay.
And then finally turning to the balance sheet receivables up payables down and we'll come to inventory in a second.
So just regard with – with regard to those two items what's going on there? Is it competitive issues changes in terms structural issues? Could you talk a little bit about that? Do you want me to take that one Pat? Yes Dennis.
Would you? All right okay.
Well first of all receivables are down just slightly from September 30.
That's mostly – there's nothing unusual there.
We will get – there's timing issues in that our sales were about $1 million lower in this quarter as compared to our fourth fiscal quarter so you would expect to see receivables down a little bit.
You get some timing issues particularly at the end of the year a number of our customers I think as we said take shutdowns during the last week – between Christmas and New Years we take a shutdown and so there's some timing there on when payments get processed.
To tell you the truth same thing Matt on accounts payable.
We – you see our accounts payable down.
That again nothing more than timing.
What happens is that we pay – before our Christmas shutdown we pay our – we pay the payables and then we don't have products coming in that last week which doesn't create inventory and receivable – and payables during that time frame.
So normally we see our payables dip down a little bit in the fourth – in our first fiscal quarter around December.
So again nothing unusual there.
As far as accrued liabilities are concerned like I said before we have – we pay a number of our one-time items bonuses property taxes and that brought down the accrual plus we drew down the accrual to $225 000 because of the environmental which is kind of – that's kind of outside the norm but again you kind of expect to see those accrued expenses go down a little bit toward the end of our first fiscal quarter.
Okay.
Just in terms of measuring these things rather in absolute to – in comparison to the sales stream in terms of days sales days COGS inventories and things these are at – there is a lot – there is quite a lot of capital investment in the business now than has been the case.
I was just wondering if the – if you are experiencing any competitive issues but it's all timing that.
Yes it really is.
I mean if you look at our day sales outstanding for example we bounce around the high 50 days and in our first fiscal quarter we popped up to 61 days and that was – to tell you the truth that little pop there was due to one of our customers where we normally receive a large – they usually pay us like once a month and they pay us right toward the end of the month while this quarter they paid a small amount at the end of the quarter and then I think like January 10th or something like that they paid us the remainder of it.
And so it was a timing deal so that pops my day sales outstanding up to 61 versus like in the high 50s 58 59 that we normally see.
Okay.
So that's the type of stuff but again nothing really – nothing really unusual on that.
Okay.
And then finally – and then I will – I promise I'll leave.
Just inventory you spoke a little bit about some price increases being pushed through and I know we've also spoken before about buying larger quantities of rare earth magnets and so on to mitigate some of the price swings there.
So could you give us an update because inventories are still fairly high in comparison – well that is still very high – fairly high so what's the latest there on what you guys doing on that? Well Dennis I can address that.
Okay.
Obviously we are hearing at the present time that rare earth magnets have been an issue and we hear that – and are expecting there is some policy shifts in China that rare earth magnets may take another steep rise now that we've finished the Chinese New Year.
So we are contemplating what we are going to do there.
I will tell you also that the inventory – one of the major drivers of the inventory was a customer of ours in Europe who had the logistics problem.
We continued to build product to support his business because we knew he would use the product.
And the inventory is well below the number that you are looking at right now that we closed December 2011 at.
I think that we are probably going to be down close to the $10 million range as we complete this quarter at the end of March.
So the inventory is going to continue to be down.
Part of it is of course we had this issue with the customer in Europe and his problems internally and – but we supported him through that.
And we do have some strategic inventory and we are not quite sure at this point which way we are going to move on that.
We could increase that slightly with the rare earth magnets depending on what we are – we really see in the marketplace.
But we are concerned that that's a – the rare earth magnet issue is probably not going to resolve itself until later this year when more supply comes online.
How much of your inventory does rare earth magnets stems tend to? I mean if you double the cost of rare earth magnets what percentage impact would that have on your inventory? Probably $250 000.
Okay.
Okay that's great.
That's great.
Okay I'll leave you guys alone and thank you so much.
Thanks Matthew.
(Operator instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi John.
How are you? Good.
Thanks.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
My first question I just wanted to back up you said that you shipped 11 000 units in the December quarter in India okay? You're expecting to ship over 40 000 units in the current March quarter correct in India? I just want to make sure that these are correct numbers here.
Well you can imagine John.
The business is – we really kind of went into production in around September of last year I think was about the time.
But I want to make sure that you understood it.
What I said in my – my comments were that in the quarter ending in December we shipped 11 000 pedals with over 5 500 shipped in December.
Right.
Okay? And we are probably to ship right around 40 000 this quarter ending in March.
Okay.
And you can imagine the business is ramping up and – Yes.
– and we are ramping up to meet that demand.
So our pedal production is really gaining steam.
Okay.
Now there was an estimate for I believe it was 746 000 pedals both light medium and heavy duty commercial markets for India for I guess I could call it fiscal '13 because it ends next year's March.
Let me clarify what I said John to make sure you understood it.
What I said was the projection for this year which is the Indian fiscal year it – when you look at that year their current projection and that is April '10 – or April '11 to March '12 was 746 000 that's the projected total for light medium and heavy commercial vehicles in India.
Okay.
So that's from April '10 – April '11 to March '12 not April '12 to March '13? No that is this coming year.
It's coming to a close.
Okay.
So we are looking at over 700 000 pedal market obviously for you to penetrate.
I just wanted to get an idea about – I should be very clear.
Not all of that 746 000 are – at this point in time are going to be electronic pedals.
Right.
This market is transitioning over the next 24 months to electronic engines and pedals.
And right now a fraction of that 746 000 is electronic pedals.
Some units are already there some yet to be – have need – will need to be converted yet.
Okay.
But within 24 months – the next 24 months basically all areas in India are looking to go for the emission standards which would require – Yes I wish it was always that black and white.
Now we've seen some other things happen in China as you know and the current date in China is July of 2013.
Now I'm told this by one of our customers that's what they are expecting and that's how they are moving forward.
And we are seeing a significant activity in that area right now.
So I'm reasonably confident it's going to happen but it may not all completely happen.
Okay but – But obviously we are seeing a pretty significant increase in that market.
Okay.
But obviously with that type of a market even if half of them go to the electronic throttle control – it's a relatively large market obviously from where you were in the first quarter in – Yes it really is John.
It's what so exciting about it.
I'm just curious I boiled my question down to just trying to find out what type of market share in that size market are we looking that you think you can penetrate of the electronic throttle controls? What percentage wise market share? Well John we don't really speculate on that and it's not something that I want to talk to my competitors about which are on the line today.
So I would tell you that like any other market we are going to work really hard at getting our fair share of that market and usually – it's usually pretty substantial.
So we are going to work towards that.
Okay.
And if I could just quantify – Sorry John.
I can't answer that directly.
That's okay.
Just to ask another question in the India market you shipped 11 000 units 5 500 in December.
But for the quarter that was 11 000 units.
If I could quantify that in revenue in India market what are we looking at – what did that contribute? John we don't give average selling prices.
It communicates too much to our competitors and I won't do it.
I would tell you that we will ship this year somewhere over $2 million is my expectation right now in the Indian market in this fiscal year could be as high as $2.5 million or $2.6 million.
Okay and that's in your fiscal 2013 obviously? No that's our fiscal '12.
Fiscal '12.
That's this year.
I'm sorry – I'm sorry September fiscal I'm sorry.
September fiscal we get $2 million.
Okay.
All right I'll get off of India right now.
But the joysticks obviously they contributed to sales in the quarter.
I was just curious what you – Very very little John.
Okay but –? We are just launching that.
Now it probably cost us money in the quarter because of our kind of – we are really ramping up our marketing activities for those.
Right.
We did sell some but not a significant amount.
But for the year the fiscal year the September year what do you think when looking at the joystick sales for the year because obviously it's going to be some kind of a ramp-up? Yes it's probably going to be pretty small I would guess John it's probably between $100 000 and $200 000.
For the whole year? Yes.
We are in the process of testing this product with customers.
And you know that the cycle is typically six months to a year and then we are going to find – sometimes it's longer and then we are going to find a very steep ramp-up once these things are qualified.
Okay.
So in fiscal 2013 I guess we could have – We will start to see some significant sales in '13.
Okay.
And I know you mentioned earlier in India – I hate to get back to India for you guys again but the margins were affected by higher shipping costs obviously you are looking by May or June to have locally sourced the product there.
But in a total gross margin effect what do you think that the – that extra shipping cost in India might have affected your total gross margins for the quarter? Well I don't know.
Dennis maybe you could comment on that.
But I would just tell you John that right now products that we bring in have – right across the top have a 20% increase in whatever their costs are because of the duty plus whatever the shipping costs; and if you figure 3% to 5% for shipping costs there's a 25% hit on the component part and some are actually even higher depending on what they are.
So that doesn't help us any.
So that's why we are working very diligently and – but we want to make sure that we have the right suppliers in the right quality and everything is validated and checked and double-checked.
And so you are looking at that kind of a change in price to source assuming that the prices at the Indian suppliers are the same as what we are buying them elsewhere which we are trying to do.
You are looking at that kind of a differential.
Okay.
But obviously right now the India sales are kind of slow – not slow but they are just starting to ramp up.
So the effect on total gross margins may not be that significant.
No it's probably not really significant.
Dennis you might want to weigh in on that? Yes it really isn't at this point.
The volumes are not that high at this point and so we are not looking at big numbers there.
I would have to say probably your question John on the freight and duty most of that inventory was already purchased and setting there.
But when we did bring it in – and of course we'd relieve it from inventory at this time it was probably $50 000 $75 000 somewhere in there.
Okay just to see what level of significance that might have affected it.
Actually my questions have been answered from the previous caller.
So I think I'm good.
Thank you very much.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
We would like to thank everyone for attending today.
Bye now.
Everyone from Munich bye now.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.