Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements.
We intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor Provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our second quarter earnings release is scheduled for Wednesday August 10 2011 after market close and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday August 11 2011.
To be notified of the date of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
First I'd like to thank our 52 000 team members for their hard work and dedication to serving our customers.
We entered this year with a considerable momentum and expected 2011 would be a continuation of a very strong 2010.
Our "Service is our best part" plan was very ambitious including the launch of our national advertising campaign the company-wide rollout of our new district in commercial leadership model and the restart of our wave efforts.
We made these decisions and began implementing them in the fourth quarter of last year anticipating that our momentum and exceptional industry dynamics would position us for a strong first quarter and fiscal 2011.
Our momentum and overall performance proved to be different than we expected.
We highlighted that during our Q4 conference call in mid-February the change in momentum and the volatility principally driven by weather.
We shared with you that we expected our Q1 comparable sales growth to be flat to up low single digits.
Our comparable store sales were 1.4% for the first quarter of 2011.
While they were in the range quite frankly we expected better top line and bottom line outcomes.
That being said our first quarter demonstrated the great resolve of our team as we achieved record customer satisfaction and team member engagement scores for the quarter.
This bodes well for the future.
However our first quarter also highlighted the short-term bumps of accelerating the pace and the breadth of change in pursuit of long-term goals to differentiate ourselves and ultimately win with the customer.
The fundamentals of our business continue to be strong and we benefit from the structural advantages of our industry.
Advantages include the average age of vehicles constrained new car sales and a fragmented commercial market.
We continue to see opportunity for us to become a more differentiated fully integrated service model focusing both on DIY and commercial customers.
To that end our first quarter reinforced to us that our goals and objectives are the right ones to lead and service and to provide our customers with superior availability.
Simply said we are committed to providing our team the tools necessary to increase productivity and engagement which will allow them to serve our customers better than anyone else.
We will continue our efforts to provide the products and services necessary to help our customers succeed.
However our slow start to the year has caused us to step back and examine our current business environment which has been quite volatile.
For sure our prior year sales comparisons are challenging.
The weather has not cooperated and the sharp rise in fuel prices will cause challenges to both the consumer and business.
We have adapted our plans to this changing context.
However our strategic and financial commitments have remained the same for 2011.
These commitments include delivering our earnings outlook for the year of $4.60 to $4.80 per share and improving our customer satisfaction and our team member engagement.
Our path to those outcomes will flex though.
Through the balance of the year we will be making appropriate adjustments to the pace of change initiatives and cost structure aimed at making us a more efficient while delivering our service promise.
Ultimately we will continue on the path to greater service levels and profitability over the foreseeable future.
Mike will discuss these changes later in the call.
Our service leadership and superior availability strategies will continue to guide and prioritize our focus for the balance of 2011 and beyond.
The principal initiatives driving our margin improvements sales growth and service level improvements will sound familiar.
We will continue to invest and focus on commercial resulting in double-digit comp sales which is our Q2 trend right now.
We will elevate our service and foundational excellence as a top priority to improve our in-store service and execution resulting in higher customer satisfaction and productivity.
We will continue to increase our availability and expand our product offerings and profitability.
We will continue to communicate "Service is our best part" promise but at a more targeted and cost-effective medium to reignite our DIY growth.
And finally we will ensure the appropriate pacing of initiatives that minimizes disruptions to our field and our customers.
Before I close I want to provide a real-life example of a leader in our company who embodies "Service is our best part." Her store was one of our early commercial wave stores which 2 years ago received more parts pros trucks inventory and support from our national sales force.
Two years later General Manager Natasha Carter and her team score in the top deciles for customer satisfaction and team member engagement.
Natasha was provided with the resources we believe necessary for us to win and Natasha is leveraging those resources to their fullest.
She is serving our customers better than anyone else inspiring her team and helping them succeed and grow our business profitably and with integrity.
Thanks Natasha for bringing "Service is our best part" to life and for delighting our customers with dependable and fast service every job every day.
In closing I speak for Advance in saying we are never satisfied when we miss our expectations.
However we are confident in our team and our business.
We remain focused on delivering our goals including our full-year earnings outlook.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Wade our President to discuss our service leadership strategy.
Thank you Darren and good morning.
As always I want to start by thanking our team as we accelerate our journey to service leadership in the first quarter.
During a quarter where business was not where we want it to be our customer satisfaction measures increased again over last year in both our DIY and Commercial business which we believe is a very positive sign as we look to the future.
We also take full ownership for the results we achieved in the first quarter.
And I know I speak for our entire team when I say we're fully committed to achieve the expectations Mike has outlined for the remainder of the year.
I will review with you our primary focus areas during the first quarter and how we're approaching the remainder of the year to drive our sales and our profit.
Our total comp store sales grew by 1.4% in the first quarter compared to 7.7% during the same quarter last year.
This was lower than our expectations in both DIY and Commercial although Commercial continued to comp strongly relative to the market and was just shy of double digits.
Commercial represented 36.6% of our total sales in the first quarter.
All of our operating areas were under our internal expectations as a result of both impacts of unseasonable weather in certain geographic regions such as the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic and the impact of the pace and breadth of change.
In the first quarter we accelerate our commitment to carry out our "Service is our best part" promise through service leadership.
The core of this focus is on several key areas that will better enable every Advance team member to serve our customers with dependable and fast service consistently in every store every day.
We believe that to provide a great customer experience we must achieve a new standard operational and service excellence and that has to be brought to life for the customer by our store teams.
We made good progress on each of these key focuses in the first quarter.
We increased the number of district leaders which reduced the number of stores they lead in order to allow them to spend more time in their stores coaching and developing their teams.
The changes in districts and the related realignment of our sales force created some disruptions as the district leaders and sales force transition to different stores and customers.
During the last few weeks we've been focusing the team so they can be in our stores full-time as we head into the busiest season of our year.
Our work to achieve a greater level of consistent foundational excellence in every store has been rolled out across the company.
With greater clarity on the team member behaviors that are most important to our customers and the ability of each General Manager to measure their progress we believe our customers will see our service levels and our consistency continue to rise.
As we've discussed for the last few quarters we continue to build on our customer-driven staffing model to ensure we have the right people at the right time to align with customer traffic.
These tools provide our team greater visibility to where our greatest opportunity is for staffing quantity and quality improvements exist.
It's also enabled us to create more flexibility in opening and closing hours and in staffing core positions based on sales volume.
For the last couple years we've significantly advanced our tools for accelerated training and development in both parts knowledge and selling skills to better enable our team to find solutions for their customers.
This year we've added more advanced courses based on skill levels of individual team members to further deepen those skills.
As in most businesses a relatively small number of commercial customers make up a significant part of our sales volume.
We continue to be focused on building stronger relationships with our highest potential commercial customers through the partnership of our store teams and sales force to visit and support those customers.
Commercial garages is always right timely deliveries [ph] is the most important attribute they expect from their parts supplier.
We can now measure our delivery times and order actually to our commercial customers to ensure we're meeting and exceeding their expectations.
Lastly we are working to leverage to its fullest potential the record availability of parts that Kevin will describe along with all the tools his team is providing so we can find the part and get it to the customer fast.
We believe these priorities focus on the fundamentals of what our DIY and Commercial customers expect from us.
Our core part of our "Service is our best part" promise is to continue to raise service levels to our customers while making our store model more efficient.
Our team is excited about the opportunities we're identifying to leverage our expenses and our investments and look forward to delivering on both parts of our promise.
In regard to new store openings during the first quarter we opened 37 stores including 9 Autopart International stores.
As of the end of our first quarter our total store count was 3 600 including 203 Autopart International stores.
In closing thanks again to our team as we take the steps to have another successful year by inspiring our teams and serving our customers through our "Service is our best part" promise.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer to discuss our superior availability strategy.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
I'd also like to thank the team for their hard work in the first quarter.
I'll take a moment to highlight a few of our accomplishments during the quarter as well as update you on our initiatives to support our superior availability strategy.
During the first quarter our gross profit rate increased 73 basis points versus the first quarter of 2010 and has increased 298 basis points in the past 3 years.
The first quarter improvement was driven by increases in both front room and back room categories resulting from the rollout of our custom mix and price optimization strategies the strengthening of our category management capabilities and the impact of our rapidly growing global sourcing capabilities.
We saw strong increase in shipments versus Q1 of 2010.
Through the balance of the year our gross margins will be much more constrained driven by fuel prices supply chain investments high commodity inflation and an economic landscape that continues to put pressure on our customers which ultimately limits our ability to fully pass through the product cost increases.
We completed nearly 400 inventory upgrades during the quarter including upgrades of 60 new HUB stores.
As a frame of reference we operated approximately 85 delivery HUB stores 3 years ago versus nearly 240 today.
This pace of investment substantially improves our competitive position on same-day part availability.
Combined with a significant increase in overall inventory we ended the quarter with the highest inventory per store and set company records for in-stocks parts coverage and the customer perception of availability.
Our adjusted accounts payable inventory ratio increased to 74.3% at the end of first quarter from 68.9% at the end of first quarter 2010.
The increase in our AP ratio continues to be driven by more favorable payment terms supply chain financing and the timing of inventory purchases.
Our owned inventory was essentially flat despite a 21% increase in total inventory from Q1 2010.
Supply chain leverage stalled in the quarter primarily driven by the heavy inventory buildup DC inefficiencies as we approach maximum DC capacity higher fuel costs and supply chain investments.
Both the inventory buildup and overcapacity will abate in the quarters ahead but the fuel costs are anticipated to remain above last year comparisons and the costs associated with our supply chain investments will increase throughout the year.
It is expected the supply chain costs will remain a headwind to gross profit for the balance of the year.
We continue to be pleased with our E-commerce platform.
We saw a significant increase above Q1 last year on our DIY side.
That's on top of a very successful performance last year.
All metrics continue to improve including our product assortment number of site visits and our closed rate driven by site enhancements.
Our commercial site launch last quarter continues to grow rapidly as well.
Sales increased substantially from one quarter to the next setting new weekly highs throughout the quarter.
After a year of careful research we launched our "Service is our best part" ad campaign in the quarter with a unified message to both DIY and Commercial consumer groups in multiple languages and across all marketing channels including TV radio direct marketing and in-store signage.
We'll update you on this effort in the quarters ahead.
I'm pleased with the strategic progress our team has made as we continue to focus on providing superior availability.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their contributions to evolving our service model during our first quarter of 2011.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: One provide some financial highlights from our 2011 first quarter; two put our first quarter results into context with both our expectations and key financial dimensions that we are using to measure our performance; and three share with you the actions we are taking to deliver our annual financial outlook for 2011.
Our revenue increased 3.7% driven by 138 net new stores over the past 12 months and a comparable store sales increase of 1.4% during the first quarter.
This was on top of a 7.7% comp sales increase last year representing a 9.1% 2-year comp store sales increase.
While we continued to see strong performance in Commercial which was just shy of achieving double-digit comp store sales growth our first quarter comp sales were below our expectations.
I will provide further insights on the actions we are taking later in my remarks.
As Kevin mentioned our gross profit rate increased 73 basis points versus 2010 and continues to be driven by improved merchandising and pricing capabilities and improved parts availability partially offset by higher supply chain costs.
The 73-basis point increase was on top of a 93-basis point gross profit rate improvement during the first quarter of 2010.
We continue to expand our margins while maintaining a strong competitive pricing position as well as mitigating the impacts of the mix pressure of the strong growth of our Commercial business which has a lower gross profit rate.
Our commercial mix represented 36.6% of our 2011 sales versus 33.4% in 2010.
While we exceeded our internal expectations for gross profit rate improvement our gross profit rate will be constrained for the balance of the year as Kevin previously shared.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 40.7% increased 88 basis points versus the first quarter of 2010 primarily due to increased advertising spend store labor and fixed cost deleverage due to the modest comparable store sales increase partially offset by lower incentive compensation compared to last year.
All in our operating income grew 2.1% and our OI rate decreased 15 basis points to 9.8% primarily driven by our sales shortfall.
However our diluted earnings per share increased 13.4% to $1.35 versus $1.19 last year.
This increase was primarily driven by our share repurchase activity over the past year.
Free cash flow through the first quarter was $152.9 million versus $262.9 million last year.
This decrease in free cash flow was driven by the change in owned inventory this year versus first quarter 2010 and a higher capital expenditures.
Our accounts payable to inventory ratio increased to 74.3% as of the first quarter of 2011 from 68.9% over the same period last year as part of our continued efforts to reduce our net owned inventory.
During our first quarter we repurchased 4.2 million shares of our stock for $270 million at an average price of $63.72 per share.
Our earnings release for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 reported 1.9 million of these shares that had been repurchased between January 2 2011 and the earnings release on February 9 2011.
Through the end of our first quarter we had approximately $352 million remaining on our existing share buyback authorization.
These repurchases reflect our view of our valuation and our internal confidence in our company's ability to grow profitably and to create long-term shareholder value.
During the first quarter we made progress with our customer satisfaction and team member engagement scores which we view as leading indicators of future performance.
That said our first quarter operating and financial performance fell below our expectations.
With our strong 2010 fourth quarter where we accelerated market share growth and customer satisfaction scores and with our sequential and accelerating financial and operating performance over the past 3 years we expected to build on that momentum in the first quarter.
We did share with you on our fourth quarter earnings call that we had gotten off to a slower start.
While our comp sales increase came in the range we shared with you on our fourth quarter conference call they were below our internal expectations we set at the beginning of the year.
We know some external factors outside our control had some impact such as weather in our markets gas prices and slower industry growth than last year.
We also know things directly in our control played a role in our underperformance.
These include minimizing the short-term impacts of structural changes needed to deliver on our service promise better pacing of our initiatives better leveraging and delivering the benefits from our previous strategic investments and execution.
We are confident in our team's ability to execute on these improvements based on our progress over the last 3 years.
Looking forward we continue to believe growth profit and value are the right holistic financial measures.
However our first quarter results require us to focus in each of these areas to adjust to ensure we maximize the performance of each measure.
Turning to growth.
We are pleased with our Commercial growth but our 5% share in a highly fragmented commercial market demands continued urgency to ensure we continue to make this a primary focus as it is a key driver of continuing to grow our sales per store.
We also are closely monitoring the industry growth to ensure we adjust our variable costs in light of our more volatile business environment.
Turning to profit.
We have previously shared that we see a pathway to 12% operating margins over the next 2 to 3 years.
With a large portion of our investments made and key capabilities built we are placing a larger emphasis on getting to 12% operating margins.
We expect to get there through modest gross profit expansion in areas such as global sourcing availability and supply chain efficiencies.
However the largest contributor to us improving our operating margins will come from our cost structure.
We started this work last year and shared on our last earnings call that we expected SG&amp;A dollar growth per store to decelerate in 2011 from 2010.
We shared that we expected SG&amp;A per store to grow in the range of 2% to 4% in 2011 from 6.7% in 2010.
With our performance in our first quarter we are adjusting our FY '11 SG&amp;A per store growth to be flat to 2%.
To be clear our work to reduce our cost structure will not take us off course of delivering on our service promise to serve our customers better than anyone else growing our market share and delivering the expected outcomes we have shared from our service leadership and superior availability strategies.
Instead it will require better balance to the pace of change initiatives and cost reductions that enable our service promise and make us more efficient.
Our cost structure work will be multi-year work in the areas of labor productivity operational efficiencies reducing variability and store performance and reductions in costs driven by slower pace of investments and a more competitive support structure.
These actions will position us to enable growth and improve our profit model.
Turning to shareholder value.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital as reflected in our return on invested capital which is now at 18% or 210 basis points over the first quarter last year and represents a 340-basis point improvement on a 2-year basis.
We are also pleased with our 74.3% AP ratio and continue to see opportunities to improve our AP ratio to reduce our owned inventory.
We also are focusing on ensuring we are benefiting from our increased inventory per store to meet our customer availability needs and to maximize our cash flow.
We are now expecting our comp sales increase to grow in the low single digits for the year.
Darren Jim and Kevin outlined several efforts underway which are designed to focus our company reinvigorate our top line performance and continue our strategic progress on delivering our service promise.
We also have adjusted our cost structure and pace of strategic initiatives to position us to leverage SG&amp;A at lower comp levels.
With the adjustments we have made we still expect to deliver on our previously communicated annual EPS outlook of $4.60 to $4.80.
In closing while our first quarter was challenging we are confident in delivering on our annual outlook with the adjustments we are making.
We are focused and committed to building an integrated service model to deliver our service promise of "Service is our best part" through our service leadership and superior availability strategies.
Our improved customer satisfaction scores from our first quarter reinforce we are on the right path.
We also are committed to making the necessary adjustments to our operating model that are fiscally prudent and that will improve our profit model.
Our talented team members will continue to propel us forward and ultimately allow us to reach our full potential.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
The question that Kevin touched on and Mike touched on is if you go with the gross margin a little bit more like you talked about how it's going to be subdued to the supply chain does subdued mean decline or does it mean lower growth rate? Yes so maybe I'll start and then we can get Kevin to give some color on how it relates to our strategy.
So in terms of our gross profit rate it's been a great story as you know for the last 3 years.
And actually we overperformed in Q1.
And if I link that back we've been getting it from our availability our supply chain efficiencies our merchandising and pricing capabilities.
As we now head into a more volatile environment and Kevin will go deeper into it but inflation price competitiveness supply chain investments that we've made in our business we see from here on to the balance of the year our gross profit rate is going to be constrained.
And if I link that back to our outlook if you remember we said at the beginning of the year that we expect to see modest improvement in our gross profit rate.
We overperformed in Q1 and we still anticipate that for the year we're going to see that modest improvement in our gross profit rate which just mean that for the balance of the year our gross profit rate is going to be constrained from those areas I just outlined.
Yes Gary this is Kevin.
To build on Mike's point we're seeing pretty immaterial commodity inflation predominantly in oil and steel.
So while we've certainly seen price inflation in the past and over the life of the product our industry is not highly price sensitive and those generally become reflected in retail prices.
That's true in the long term but I think in the short term we would expect in this economic environment there may be somewhat of a delay in our ability to pass those price increases on to the retail price.
In terms of the supply chain expenses we were hit from a fuel perspective just like anyone else that has a material hauling component to their business.
And those will actually increase as we go in the back half of the year as we're making incremental investments into the supply chain.
And then we have an impact that we'll be facing throughout the course of the year.
Our inventory levels were up material in the quarter and will moderate their way back down by the end of the year and that will have somewhat of a headwind as well.
That all said global sourcing which is growing dramatically at this point will continue to grow throughout the course of the year.
And our price optimization that we successfully did on the DIY side is deploying as we speak on the Commercial side.
So to Mike's point I think the numbers that we put up in the last 3 years are not sustainable through the course of the balance of the year but we still see a margin increase for 2011.
And just one follow-up as you look at the comp and especially on the DIY side and as you look at it how much do you think is weather impacted versus the price of gas because gas looks like it's going to be coming back down over the next few months? Yes Gary this is Darren.
What we can see regionally as we look across the nation is that our regions look to be hit by a couple hundred basis points for sure in the quarter.
If we had all of our stores in Texas we would have felt better but we don't.
And sometimes regionality helps us sometimes it hurts us.
It worked against us in the quarter and I know from many on the call they're up there in New York and Boston you live through it.
I mean it's just a little more challenging.
We could also see in the quarter as we got deeper in the quarter and as you'll recall we have 4 periods in our quarter.
April was tougher and that was partly because of gas prices.
If we look at it on a 2-year basis though our 2-year trends were okay so we faced some of our more challenging comparisons in the quarter as we got to the end of the quarter and we faced more challenging gas prices.
I think the way we thought about it is that this gas thing is just too hard to predict.
So we've made an assumption it is coming down and it's come down a little bit in the last few weeks but our forecast going forward are a little more conservative because of that inability to predict some of that gas price.
So we're assuming it's going to be a little higher and adjusting our costs accordingly.
And if it turns out to be gas goes lower it's a win in a supply chain.
It should be a win in terms of reigniting DIY sales and I'd rather be on the side of pleasantly surprising on that than having to keep adjusting down.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Darren you mentioned that April was tougher.
Can you help us just with the cadence of the quarter a little bit more? Obviously the quarter started off tough.
Can you just kind of give a size of maybe the impact in April? Because obviously April was pretty tough for a lot of people on a weather front and we kind of know your geography so we understand why you would get hit maybe more than some others.
Yes.
Well the way I would think about it Scot is like a camel's back is that as we said earlier that January was really tough.
We like the middle part of the quarter and the back end of the quarter to be really frank is -- our last period was probably our best period last year.
We had a terrific finish to the quarter last year.
And this year it was just more challenging.
So that's why I said I think you have to back up and look at it on a 2-year basis.
And on a 2-year basis you know what the back end of the quarter was okay in terms of trend for us for sure.
But in light of record temperatures last year really strong growth last year and higher gas prices this year I think it was just a convergence of events that the back end of the quarter was more challenging.
So the good news is our comparisons get a little lighter as we go into the second quarter.
And now that being said doesn't change the fact that gas is up year-over-year $0.80-plus in many of our markets.
So like I said we're going to have to manage that volatility for sure make sure that our expenses reflect that and stay focused.
And the good news is our commercial business as I said in my remarks have bounced back to double-digit growth again so we're pleased about that.
The DIY thing we're going to have to monitor as we monitor gas prices.
LLC</strong> I guess my question Darren is -- okay so April is a little bit tougher.
We know we've seen some results from some competitors.
Only through March I understand that but the delta is pretty sizable.
So when I look at that and I hear your comments about gross margin I'm wondering if you think you might have pushed your price optimization plan maybe a bit too aggressively.
Yes Scott this is Kevin.
We actually have a process where we monitor our prices vis-à-vis our primary competitors.
And it is literally down to the individual item and the individual location so it's highly precise.
And where we were in our price competitiveness this year versus last year we manage ourselves in a very tight range of proximity to our key competitors and essentially try to shoot for a neutral price position.
It's not a prime driver in our industry.
And those metrics through the quarter stayed where they have been over the last several years.
And so at least the view that we have of it is would suggest that the increases that we've had in margin are from reduction of what we pay for products not increases on what we charge for products.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Could you guys go into a little more detail on the inventory increase the up 21%? And how much of that could be -- sort of break it down into inflation? And how much more are you doing global sourcing earlier getting it on the boat and stuff like that? Yes thanks Greg.
It's Mike.
Maybe I'll start off and then I'll have Greg -- I'm sorry I'll have Kevin link it a little bit to our superior availability strategy.
So first of all the growth of our inventory has been a concerted effort around growing our parts availability.
It's very important in this space and we've been doing it.
And as a link to that is during the quarter we opened 60 new HUBs.
We did 400 upgrades.
So obviously those require inventory.
Second of all is if you remember last year our comparison is probably the lowest point.
So last year in FY '10 Q1 our inventory grew 3.8%.
Our sales grew close to 9%.
So we were up against a lower comparison.
And to be honest with you we had a lot of momentum going into Q1 and we invested ahead.
We said that we invested ahead.
But to be clear our inventory has been steadily building steadily built last year.
Third is timing.
So we're probably at the highest just the seasonality of our business we are at the highest point that we are for the year.
We would expect to flex down throughout this year.
And the other thing is the quality of our inventory and Kevin will get a little bit into that has never been better.
So we feel really good with the quality of our inventory.
And then lastly and quite frankly we came a little short on the sales that magnified the inventory however we're pleased with our net owned inventory which was virtually flat last year so it didn't cost us a lot.
Yes Greg.
I would maybe repackage what Mike said into 2 buckets.
There is a temporary element of the 21% increase and then there's a structural element.
The temporary portion is as Mike mentioned with the inventory up last year 3.81% when sales are up nearly 9% we fell shortly of inventory.
And the customer surveys that we had of availability suggested that we had had an opportunity to pick up even more sales.
So as we went into this year we planned for to ensure that that did not occur.
And as everyone has said on the call sales fell short of expectation.
So where we had guessed too low last year we guessed too high this year.
So those 2 phenomenon account for half of the change in inventory.
The other half is we had 157 HUBs this time last year.
We have 240 this year.
And that's a material increase in inventory per store and had 400 upgrades in the quarter and had material upgrades in the year between those 2 quarters.
Additionally sales were up 3.7%.
There's an investment that we need to keep up with the rate of sale.
Those upgrades additional HUBs in keeping up with the business is about the other half.
So what we see as we look out to the end of the year is it's not a 21% year-over-year increase but something closer to a high single-digit to low double-digit increase year-over-year.
Great.
And then sort of a bigger picture question on the SG&amp;A.
It's good to see it come get it down quickly given the change in the environment.
I'm just curious as to your the way you actually execute that.
I mean the organization has been growing a lot the last couple of years you had a lot of initiatives.
How do you actually get it done in terms of the labor scheduling whatever projects you have get them to unwind? I mean how quickly can you really change that? Yes and I think Gary mentioned it we're pleased with what we did with SG&amp;A in the quarter.
It's our lowest SG&amp;A per store growth in the last 3 years.
And when you think about it this is not a new story for us.
I think the first part of our journey we talked about building capabilities focusing on growth and returns.
And then we said the next part of the journey which is the journey that we're in now is to improve our profit model.
And our cost structure is an important driver of that.
And you know what we did a lot of the work last year.
We kind of bucketized [ph] it into kind of productivity and efficiency opportunities variability and store performance scaling back some of the investments because we got a lot of them behind us now and then just getting more competitive with our cost structure for things like occupancy our goods not for resale and just some discretionary things.
And maybe I'll illustrate with an example.
So we've been investing ahead with our business for the past 3 years.
So we've invested in parts pros [ph] in trucks in commercial programs.
And we're getting pretty good now at understanding what the expectation is for our teams to deliver on.
And in fact we've got targets and we share those targets with our field.
And really we have a lot of confidence in our field's ability to execute on some of those productivity targets some of those efficiency targets.
So I think we started the work last year.
We feel very confident.
And it's also going to be a multi-year journey.
Maybe to build on that Greg is so just think about 3 buckets.
We'll be doing the things you'd expect us to do.
I'll start with the corporate center here.
Over the past several years it's been heavier investment in places like professional services whether that's in our IT business or whether that's in our overall parts of the business.
So we've just gone in and edited it out.
If you think about our initiatives as Mike said as we've looked at the scale of initiatives going forward it's just clear to us that we can't -- we better understand that.
In the first quarter we had many initiatives.
We restarted the wave of process new district leaders all that.
It probably cost us a little bit in terms of field rhythm.
So we've made a decision to say let's actually get the most out of those initiatives and edit out some of those things that are certainly things that we believe in long term for the business.
But what's most important now is getting the rhythm of the business right.
So you can edit costs out there.
And we've gone into our field organization and looked across the organization.
It's very good for -- we have a different set of tools than we did just a year ago to begin to look across hours rates and the like in our stores.
And we've made some edits there.
And so we feel -- I feel quite frankly as confident as I have ever felt that we're able to see a flat to 2% SG&amp;A growth.
So as Mike said a year ago we wouldn't want to be in a position that we're just I'll say it this way chaotically going in and cutting the expenses of the business.
We can go in and more surgically take those costs out given the work that we did a year ago.
And that's in part what's showing up in the first quarter because first quarter had a lot of those investments.
Advertising is the easiest one to see what you can't see underneath the water line are the edits from the cost structure.
And what will become more visible in the upcoming quarters is the fruits of that work.
Our next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Just 2 follow-up questions actually.
First of all can you talk about the role of incentive compensation driving SG&amp;A growth last year? And talk about how you anticipate that moderate and presumably it does as you work through as you see the rate of expense growth moderate here in 2011.
Sure.
Matt it's Mike.
So as you saw in our results in Q1 our SG&amp;A deleveraged about 88 basis points.
And when you think about that the majority of that deleverage came from a concerted effort that we shared with you in our brand advertising.
And what's interesting is so that's the majority.
What was good is the other deleverage came in a little bit in payroll because lower sales we weren't able to pull back fast enough and some of the fixed cost deleveraged.
Those 2 buckets the deleverage in labor and the deleverage in our fixed cost structure was almost entirely offset by the leverage in our incentive compensation.
So said differently in times of heavy growth that we saw last year incentive compensation is going to be a big driver of SG&amp;A because -- and we're happy to pay our team members and our leadership team for growth.
And in times where we don't grow as much we're going to leverage.
And we actually saw that in our first quarter.
So one would think that something like 2% or 3% of SG&amp;A declined I guess year-on-year you have [ph] incentive comp offset by some of the other items? Yes we don't break it out like that Matt.
But I would tell you that the leverage in our incentive comp virtually offset the deleverage we saw in the other buckets except for the advertising which was a concerted effort.
And then your thought process for the rest of the year presumably is that the incentive comp rolls off at the same rate but some of the expense pressures that led to the deleverage in the first quarter probably abate as well? Yes I guess what I would say is I hope we pay a lot of incentive compensation because that means we're growing.
Fair enough.
My other question is a follow-up I think on Kevin's comment.
He talked about the moderation in inventory over the course of the year as being a factor in the expectation of moderating gross margin increases.
And I just wanted to get some clarity as to how that works its way through the numbers.
Yes Matt.
So essentially the 21% increase we had planned an increase year-over-year and it was based on an assumption that we had ended last year too low.
And we were didn't want walked business and that we had made and had intended to make material increase investments in HUBs and inventory upgrades.
As we look out to the tail end of the year we're obviously not planning to overguess sales.
And we did not end last year understocked we had caught the in-stocks by the end of the year and we were up materially year-over-year at the close of last year.
So our assumption at this point is it's relatively easy in our business.
Our products don't per se go obsolete.
It's largely a replacement business.
We have orders that go out each and every week replenishing the shelves of the stores that have had sales throughout the prior week.
And by essentially targeting an assumed softer sales trend for the balance of the year our assumption is that we'll be up modestly year-over-year and that with each quarter that 21% will melt its way back down to as I said high single digits to low double digits which is accounting for just the growth in the business growth in store count and general improvements and availability that we've been investing in over the last several years.
I totally hear you on how the inventory comes down.
I might have misheard but I thought that you said that one of the factors in the margin expectation related to the rate of inventory growth if I didn't mishear I just want to understand how that works.
Well essentially there's -- the way that LIFO would work there's many components that are in there.
And to be honest Mike is the expert in that.
But as a general rule one of the components in there is that as inventory levels rise it's a tailwind.
And as the inventory levels abate it's a headwind.
Were vendor incentives part of that thought process to the extent that purchasing went your way in Q1? Or is that not part of the equation? The vendor programs are largely based in 2 areas.
They are volume based throughout the course of the year.
And then as you hit certain thresholds for large any large company and our competitive set there's also rebates that are available.
And those programs have been improving over the years through our category management capability.
But generally directionally that has been going on for the last several years.
Our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
I guess one of the questions I want to ask about is you mentioned a little bit on adding some staffing in terms of district manager and in general management and really allowing a less number of stores from a coverage standpoint.
Can you talk about what's going on there how that looked how that looks today? And is that then something that you believe will allow for better productivity? Because I feel like cutting the SG&amp;A I get a little worried that the sales component is going to be negatively impacted at a time where comparisons are even tougher.
So can you just kind of tie that all together for me? Yes Tony this is Jim.
The way we've looked at that is over the last 2 or 3 years as we grew store count and we grew as a company our spans at the district level had gotten larger than they had historically been.
And we felt too large for the amount of change that was coming in regard to focusing on raising our service levels and our operational consistency in our stores.
So as we went into the latter part of last year we made the decision to increase the number of district leaders to lower that span back down to something closer to what I think most businesses that are like us would be used to.
And we implemented that at the first of the year.
And as we did that and we put those additional district leaders in place that causes the redistrict the remainder of our company to fit them in and it also caused some change in our sales force at the same time.
So it was a fair amount of change that was going on as that group of new leaders were integrated into the districts.
That's behind us now.
Darren mentioned earlier that the last couple months we really focused on what are we going to do the rest of this year and how do we enable our district teams and our field teams and our sales force to focus on driving sales.
And I think we're in a good position at this point to do that.
And the way I would think about how does that tie to our productivity opportunities Mike mentioned earlier most of what we did in the first quarter to adjust to our sales trend were things that we haven't had in place and had planned for some time.
And we spent quite a bit of time with our field team and our leadership preparing to not only drive service and improve our service level but also improve our consistency of operation in the store and increase our productivity.
So we don't see those as being separate things that we're doing but being able to do those consistently and drive our customer experience which we've seen increase drive our sales and drive our productivity at the same time.
So the change in district leaders is a piece of the positioning for us to do those things as we go forward as opposed to something that was separate or unique.
Tony I just want to build share an example just that ties what Jim says to a comment Darren made around we are being surgical.
So for instance in Q1 our commercial sales per program increased to $605 000 per store compared to $542 000 per store last year.
It's about 11.5% increase.
That's built on a double-digit increase from '10 over '09.
So what's happening is we're using the same resources and getting more productive as people are in their positions longer as we've added these resources.
So there is an example of how you can do a job leveraging your SG&amp;A by getting more productive.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And maybe one other question and perhaps for Darren.
You started off I guess on the fourth quarter call and gave the guidance of $4.60 to $4.80.
And I'm assuming your internal plans obviously were for better than that since your first quarter plans were for better than that.
And I guess what I'm wondering now with what seems to be a little bit tougher sales backdrop and perhaps a bit more gross margin constrain should we now expect that that guidance while you're still affirming it is more driven by share repurchase benefit? Or do you think there are other levers that you can still pull outside of what you talked on the SG&amp;A expense to get there? Yes.
So Tony maybe I'll start.
And Darren you can build on it.
So let's talk about our outlook.
At the beginning of the year we gave $4.60 to $4.80.
We said that sales would be up in the low to mid-single digits.
We've adjusted that assumption now to low single digits really for a couple reasons.
One is our performance in the first quarter.
It's a little bit choppy as we see ahead and we got some tough comparisons so we've adjusted our sales.
Our margins we actually haven't changed.
We said it would be modestly up.
We overperformed in Q1 and we see some -- it will be constrained in the back half of the year.
That's kind of why we give an annual outlook.
And then SG&amp;A per store we said it would grow at 2% to 4%.
Now it's going to grow at 0% to 2%.
So that will help that will offset.
And then the last component will be shares.
So I think when we last got together on our Q4 call since that time we bought about 2.3 million shares which brought us for the quarter to roughly 4.2 million.
That added that incremental sales since Q4 -- I'm sorry since our Q4 release adds about $0.10.
So think about your range of $4.60 to $4.80.
$0.10 of that is new shares so depending on where you were in the range.
And the rest of it is we've just move some of the places that will drive that outlook.
I think that's right Tony.
So what I would say is we're not changing course but we do have to make a course corrections.
And we tried to outline that in the call is that you know what I hope we're wrong on the sales going forward.
But we thought it appropriate to plan sales more conservatively for the reasons you'd mentioned.
And a year ago as we said if you think about how we've gone at this business it's been somewhat you could say systematically we've made terrific gross margin progress and top line progress and even balance sheet progress over the last 3 years.
We began the process of turning our attention to the SG&amp;A and productivity.
And so what we had to do is just make some different decisions over the balance of the year and that's what we needed to do.
What I'm actually upbeat about is that with those decisions with gas prices if they continue to come down the focus of our field teams that will all be in their positions as we have begun the second quarter I think that positions us for some upside in the back half.
So we've made some edits for sure we've made some course corrections for sure.
Mike outlined that $0.10 of our numbers is being held by stock repurchase.
And what you should read into that and our stock repurchase in the first quarter is that our confidence in the future is every bit what it was in the fourth quarter.
In running these businesses you have to watch the context and make the appropriate adjustments.
And we're making the appropriate adjustments without necessarily giving away what we intend to accomplish over the long term.
Very helpful.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> So on do-it-yourself market share I guess a year or so ago we were going through a period where the company was finding it difficult to maintain share and then that appears to have corrected itself.
The results for the quarter just ended suggests that maybe share at best was flat probably dropped year-over-year.
You alluded to your prepared comments some execution issues inside the company.
Could you elaborate on what those were and how that may have impacted your do-it-yourself business? I'd trim it this way Dan and Jim alluded to it is that when we began this year one of the decisions we did make is that to bring our spans of control down for our district leaders.
And then it was purposeful as we think about delivering on a service promise one of the things is our spans did grow.
When we did make those changes you could say well you increased your district leadership team by just under 20%.
But what it does is it has a multiplying effect because you end up almost redistricting the company and you change relationships.
And that bumped into our commercial relationships as well.
And there's never a perfect time to make these changes.
Coming out of the fourth quarter there was quite a bit of momentum.
We started the wave process.
We're working with our teams across the nation in what we call our service excellence training.
And you know what human beings trying to do the right thing have to rebuild some relationships and I can't tell you whether it was worth a point or 2 points.
But what I can tell you going forward as we start the second quarter our district teams are in place our commercial sales teams are in place and those relationships over the last 30 to 60 days have been building.
And so we wouldn't change that decision because for the long term what we look to accomplish it's the right thing to do.
But there was a little bit of a price I'm certain that we paid for.
Inc.</strong> Darren and I know you have a home delivery program.
I think about 600 or 800 stores that's in place.
Do you think that's generating sufficient return for Advance? Or is that one of those initiatives that you may have to scale back at this point? I would say it's one of a handful initiatives that are just -- I can't stress this enough.
It's just in a test mode.
And we've been known to run tests for a year.
You see things were you'd say on the one hand customers give you pretty good marks for it.
On the other hand you have to ask yourself is it adding to the level of complexity in running a store? And so what we've decided is to keep it a test because we're trying to look at both because it's a marginal return for what you're getting for those home delivery customers.
Yes they like it.
The complexity it can cause in the store which is already a somewhat complex box for such a 6 000 square feet.
And I think we'll continue to monitor it for the rest of the year or so and then like many things make a decision then.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And our final question today comes from Mark Mandel with ThinkEquity.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
In terms of the DIY business did you see any significant variances by region? For example in the out West in the CSK areas the O'Reilly CSK areas did you see any underperformance in that territory? Jim? Well our stores in California performed at the same level this year as they did last year.
So what we could see Mark is that as I said in my opening comments there's a regionality to our business for sure.
And clearly whether it was our Texas market which certainly outperformed our Northeast market for the reasons we talked about earlier in the call were very very tough and they tend to be some of our stronger markets.
And we can look at the data and just know that the volatility in part was principally weather-related.
One of those markets had its driest period in a long long time and one of those had their more challenging weather condition.
So you can bet we can see some of that in the market.
So regionality certainly played a role in it.
And as I said in my earlier comments we make some changes in the business for the right long-term reasons that created some instability in the short term.
But we think that district leadership model is the right model.
And you know what there will be benefits ahead from having that tighter span of control.
And then a quick question for Mike on the interest expense line.
It came in certainly higher than I was modeling.
And I assume that that's a function of the share repurchases and the inventory build.
Mike what kind of guidance can you give us for the duration of the year on that line item? Actually it had nothing to do with the inventory build and we have a little more debt than last year.
It's the timing of our cash flow when we bought those share repurchases.
We had $130 million into our revolver $130 million in the revolver.
More debt that's what caused the difference.
And we don't break out interests going forward but I think you'd expect and what I will say is our free cash flow outlook that we've given we're sticking to that.
I think we've said it will be a minimum of $300 million.
And that is all the time we have for questions.
I will turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our first quarter earnings conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1 2011 on file with the Securities Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found in our website at AdvanceAutoParts.com.
For planning purposes our third quarter earnings release is scheduled for Wednesday November 9 2011 after market close.
And our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday November 10 2011.
To be notified of dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for one year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Second Quarter Conference Call.
I'd like to thank our 52 000 Advance team members for delivering an outstanding performance in the second quarter through their dedication and service to our customers.
We are pleased with our second quarter results that include our commercial sales growing at double-digit comp rates and our DIY business showing incremental improvements from our first quarter both combined to generate a 2.5% comparable store sales gain in the quarter.
Our external measures for customer satisfaction continued their upward trends for both our commercial and DIY businesses.
Collectively our service and operations focus is reflected in our 66-basis point improvement and our operating income rate which rose to 12.8% for the quarter as well as our earnings per share which grew 26% to $1.46 during the quarter.
These results are very encouraging despite a consumer environment filled with economic uncertainty.
Our expectations reflect the current reality of the more challenging economic landscape including escalating gas prices that are over $1 per gallon higher than a year ago miles driven trending downward and a clear slowdown in the industry growth rate versus the record pace last year.
The counter balance to the economic pressure is the continued aging of the vehicle fleet which stands at 10.5 years lower new car sales and pent-up deferred maintenance cost that have more than offset the economic obstacles.
It is important to say our teams have done a terrific job retooling our operations and financial plans without compromising our strategic investments which has allowed us to be successful in the current economic environment.
Our ability to balance solid execution in the short term with our efforts to evolve our operating model to differentiate in the long term is a delicate one especially when the strategic and financial commitments are to achieve record levels.
Our team is on track to deliver both.
Strategically we remain committed to accelerating the Commercial business through our wave rollout process building world-class capabilities including global servicing and pricing aggressively expanding our E-commerce platform for both B2C and B2B strengthening our distribution capabilities in providing the best-in-market availability through our public expansions and custom mix rollout and igniting our promise "Service is our best part." Financially we are on track to grow our commercial comp store sales by double digits for the fourth year in a row.
Our 240-basis point improvement in our operating income rate and 420-basis point improvement in our ROIC over the past 3 years reflects the strength of the industry but more directly the systematic approach and determination of the Advance team.
Looking at the balance of the year I am pleased with our start to the third quarter.
Yet I remain cautious for the reasons I mentioned earlier regarding the economic stress coupled with the record comparisons to last year.
That being said my confidence in our teams' ability to deliver on expectations through excellent customer service while controlling our costs are high.
Strategically we will continue to prioritize service leadership through accelerating our commercial growth by investing in talented team members with a passion to serve.
And we expect to benefit from delivery in B2B capabilities that will allow us to fulfill our customers' needs with speed reliability and consistency.
Leading in service also means growing our DIY business by ensuring we have a foundational service and operational excellence at every store.
We are committed to igniting service with tools that increase customer engagement team member productivity while providing a great buying experience.
Additionally we will continue to maintain our focus on providing superior availability.
Simply said our goal is to be the best position to provide our customers the products they both need and want to complete their job.
This means continuing to invest in the appropriate breadth and depth of inventory and evolving our supply chain to manage demand effectively and efficiently.
Superior availability will continue to leverage our merchandise capabilities and extensive in-market supply chain network to ensure we have not only the quantity of products but the quality at the right store at the right time.
Our strategic and financial progress will not be linear or spreadsheet perfect.
The record results we achieved since 2008 and the winding road to get there reminds us of that.
As such our focus remains on building on the momentum of the past 3 years and positioning our company for long-term sustainable growth and profitability while serving our customers better than anyone else.
Our record second quarter results are another positive step in the journey.
Before I close I want to provide an extraordinary example of a team and a team member of Advance Auto Parts that represent "Service is our best part." The why customers choose Advance Auto Parts.
At the heart of service is great people Advance Team members.
Last month I traveled to Princeton Indiana to be with our team at store 5004 which is led by our Store Manager Eric Dunlop [ph] and District Leader Ernie Lease [ph].
My visit was one of the most difficult and inspiring days that I have had since joining Advance Auto Parts.
I was there for the services of Crystal McDuffee [ph] a 23-year-old mobile parts pro that was lost in the line of duty on a routine delivery.
Words cannot describe the pain of her loss.
I met with customers families and team members.
I was inspired by the care the joy and the genuine life Crystal radiated to everyone she came in contact with.
Eric Dunlop and the greater team surrounded Crystal's family with support care and compassion.
Crystal and the Princeton team are a humble and meaningful reminder that service begins with extraordinary people.
Crystal Eric and Princeton Indiana are an inspiring reminder that service and our people are the best part.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Wade our President to discuss our service leadership strategy.
Thank you Darren and good morning.
I'll start again by thanking and congratulating our team for the sales and profit results we are reporting this morning.
Their hard work in leading and inspiring our teams and serving their customers better than anyone else produced our improved results for the second quarter.
Our total comp store sales grew by 2.5% in the second quarter compared to 5.8% during the same quarter last year.
We saw an improvement in both our DIY and Commercial sales trends over the first quarter.
Overall the comp increase was primarily due to an increase in average transaction size.
We saw a rebound in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions where we were impacted most by weather in the first quarter.
We're encouraged by these results and see many positive signs that we can continue to build on our momentum as we've gotten off to a solid start in the third quarter.
The overall market remains mixed but certainly remains positive over the longer term.
The vehicle population continues to age and will continue to age for many years to come as a result of the slowdown of new vehicles coming into the market.
The unemployment rate and higher car gas prices are currently challenging consumer spending and driving habits and causing consumers to again defer maintenance but that maintenance will eventually have to be done as it has in the past.
Our Commercial sales returned to double-digit comps in the second quarter after a very slight dip into single digits in the first quarter.
This resumed our record of double-digit comps 13 of the last 14 quarters in our Advance stores.
We continue to outperform the market and gain significant market share in this growing business.
Commercial represented 37.2% of our total sales in the second quarter.
We still see tremendous opportunities to grow Commercial and to gain market share.
While we've seen some improvements in DIY we still have opportunities despite the tough economic environment.
We've made changes that will both drive more customers to our stores and better serve them during the second half of the year.
In both DIY and Commercial our sales growth will be driven by our continued emphasis on operational service excellence at every store and by the progress we've made with greater parts availability while leveraging the investments we've made over the last several years along with selected investments going forward.
As a reminder our focus on operational and service excellence is aligned with our goal of serving our customers with dependable and fast service consistently in every store everyday.
We believe this focus certainly is contributing to our sequential improvement in sales results.
Early in the year we increased the number of district leaders and sales force to enable them to spend more time serving our customers and coaching their teams.
This created some short-term disruption as both those teams experienced changes in the stores they led and the customers they serve.
That change is now behind us and our team is building momentum.
We've shared with you over the last several quarters our work to continue to strengthen our store staffing model.
Our work has been focused on having the right people at the right time to align with the traffic patterns of both our DIY and Commercial customers and we’re seeing tremendous results from this work.
Through our focus on training and development to solve our customers’ problems we now have the most ASE-certified team members ever in our stores.
During the quarter we saw substantial increases in our measurements that tell us how well we're doing at having the right quantity and quality of staffing coverage each day of the week in each store.
And we reached new levels of productivity as well as achieved significant leverage in our labor investment over last year.
With these improvements we are now investing in specific stores and markets where we see opportunities to accelerate our sales growth.
In regard to new store openings during the second quarter we opened 28 stores and closed 1 store.
Year-to-date we've opened 65 stores.
As of the end of our second quarter our total store count was 3 627 including 203 Autopart International stores.
In closing I'd again like to thank our team as we serve our customers through our promise of "Service is our best part." Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer to discuss our superior availability strategy.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
I'd also like to thank the team for their hard work in the second quarter.
I'll take a moment to highlight a few of our accomplishments during the quarter as well as update you on our initiatives to support our superior availability strategy.
Availability has been a key strategy for us over the past 3 years and is high on the list of what our customers tell us they expect of us.
Furthermore when we have the products our customers want at the store our customer conversion rates are in excess of 90%.
However when we have to pick up the product somewhere else resulting in longer delivery times this drops considerably.
Since Q1 of last year we've been aggressively working to forward our position of inventory and the failure in maintenance categories and position ourselves to meet the demands of the customer and lead the industry in availability.
As a result we've worked aggressively to add to our number of hub stores which sits at 253 today including 14 that were opened during second quarter and over 77 opened year-to-date.
We've also greatly increased the number of inventory upgrades at store level in order to maximize our storage capacity.
During the second quarter we upgraded inventory at 266 stores and 652 year-to-date.
In addition to our efforts to increase the quantity of product availability for our customers since 2008 we've been working aggressively to ensure we have the right brands quality of parts and the right assortment in the right store.
The quality of our offerings has never been better.
Our inventory position increased in the second quarter of last year and we ended the second quarter of fiscal 2011 up 15.1% down from 21.3% increase of inventory in Q1.
Our in-stock levels were up 130 basis points over last year setting a record high.
As confirmation of the effectiveness of these investments an independent industry survey placed Advance at the #1 position for product availability.
We believe we can continue to lead in availability with less overall inventory.
We anticipate ending the year with inventory levels in the low-double digits above last year and end Q1 of next year with inventory levels below Q1 of this year.
Despite the rapid growth in inventory our own inventory per store decreased 1% due to our work to increase our accounts payable to inventory ratio which now stands at 75.1% up roughly 300 basis points from the second quarter of 2010.
We continue to make great strides in our efforts to expand this program by working strategically with our vendor partners to form strong and mutually beneficial partnerships.
The combination of rapid expansion of this program and the deceleration of our inventory growth should lead to further reductions in our own inventory in the quarters ahead.
Turning to gross profit.
Our margins declined 72 basis points to an overall rate of 49.7%.
This decline was driven by several factors.
The first factor was our strong shrink performance of the last 2 years reversed.
Jim and his team have been working diligently to prioritize the processes to ensure we get back to our strong levels of asset protection.
Additionally our supply chain costs continue to be a headwind as a result of increased fuel prices and increased HUB deliveries.
We were also negatively affected by inflationary pressures during the quarter combined with an elevated level of price competition in the marketplace.
A confirmation of the wisdom of our aggressive price action was an independent industry survey placing Advance in the lead in the perception of DIY prices.
Partially offsetting these headwinds were continued improvements in the DC productivity and continued benefits from our merchandising and pricing capabilities.
For the balance of the year we continue to expect our gross profit rate to be constrained driven by increased supply chain expenses relative to higher fuel costs and HUB investments.
Additionally shrink will be a headwind as we work aggressively to get back to our previous levels of performance.
And finally we will balance our price changes in response to high commodity price inflation while maintaining our unwavering commitment to be competitive in the eyes of our consumer.
Our B2C and B2B E-commerce platforms continued to perform above our expectations.
In the quarter we launched our new business-to-business platform which now sits on the same platform as our business to consumer site.
Our B2B customers have given us very positive feedback on the enhanced selection content navigation search and site performance.
Sales growth improved markedly post-launch.
We continue to be pleased with the strategic progress we made and remain focused on strengthening our ability to serve our customers better than anyone else while continuing to improve our productivity.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their contributions to the financial outcomes we delivered during our second quarter of 2011.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning.
One provide some financial highlights from our second quarter of 2011.
Two put our second quarter results into context with the key financial dimensions that we use to measure our performance.
And three share with you what we see for the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
During the second quarter our revenue increased 4.4% driven by 130 net new stores over the past 12 months and a comparable store sales increase of 2.5% which was on top of a 5.8% comp sales increase last year.
Our second quarter also marks our 13th out of the last 14 quarters of double-digit Commercial comp sales growth in our Advance stores.
Autopart International also delivered a solid second quarter.
As Kevin mentioned our gross profit rate in the second quarter was 49.7% versus 50.4% in the second quarter last year for a decrease of 72 basis points.
The decline versus prior year was driven by increased shrink as a result of short-term execution and operational challenges in managing our accelerated pace to lead in inventory availability increased supply chain expenses due to investments in HUBs and higher fuel costs inflation this year compared to last year and the increased mix of Commercial.
The margin decrease was partially offset by our continued improvement in merchandising and pricing capabilities.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate increased 10 basis points to 50.2%.
While we expected a gross profit rate decline during the second quarter the decrease was slightly larger than we expected due to the higher shrink.
We have developed a very strong track record of managing shrink over the past few years and we have confidence that we will get this back in line over the next few quarters.
Turning to our cost structure.
Our SG&amp;A rate was 37% during the second quarter versus 38.3% during the second quarter of 2010.
This 138-basis point decrease was primarily due to the reduced incentive comp as a result of a lower comp store sales growth benefits from our new variable customer-driven labor model which includes the anniversary of investment rollout expenses as well as a significant decrease in support costs from our operating model work.
Partially offsetting this were increased investments in areas such as Commercial E-commerce global sourcing and store systems.
I will share more on both gross profit and SG&amp;A expenses later in my remarks.
All in our operating income grew 10.1% over our OI rate -- sorry and our OI rate increased 66 basis points to 12.8% on top of our 121-basis point improvement last year.
Our diluted EPS increased 26% to $1.46 versus $1.16 last year.
Year-to-date our diluted EPS is up 19.2% on top of last year's 21.9% comparable EPS increase.
Free cash flow through the second quarter was $287.3 million versus $407.6 million last year.
The decrease in free cash flow was driven primarily by the change in owned inventory this year-to-date versus last year and higher capital expenditures.
Our accounts payable to inventory ratio increased 300 basis points to 75.1% as of the second quarter of 2011 from 72.1% versus the same period last year as part of our continued efforts to reduce our net owned inventory.
During our second quarter we repurchased 4 million shares of our stock for $239.7 million at an average price of $60.31 per share.
Through the second quarter we have repurchased approximately 8.2 million shares of stock at a cost of $509.7 million for an average price of $62.07 per share.
These repurchases reflect our view of our valuation and our internal confidence in our company's ability to grow profitability and to create long-term shareholder value.
As we stated in our press release the company's Board of Directors authorized a new $300 million share repurchase program.
This new authorization replaces the company's $500 million share repurchase program authorized in February 2011 which had a $112 million remaining.
Strategically we continue to position the company for growth and improved profitably.
Our performance in our second quarter and over the past 3 years shows we're on the right path and reinforces our commitment to accelerate growth improve profitability and drive shareholder value.
We continue to measure our performance based on these 3 dimensions.
Our commitment to growing our business is reflected by another quarter of double-digit Commercial comparable store sales growth.
Our Commercial sales per program have grown to $618 000 and over the past 3 years has grown from $425 000 which represent a 45% increase.
Our ability to grow profitability is marked by a 66-basis point improvement in our second quarter operating income rate to 12.8%.
Over the past 3 years we have seen our operating income rate continue to improve and we remain committed to increasing this to 12% over the next few years.
We have also seen our earnings per share grow over 20% compounded annual growth rate over the past 3 years.
Turning to shareholder value.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital as reflected in our return on invested capital which is now at 18.5% or 200 basis points over the second quarter last year and represents a 420-basis point improvement over the past 3 years.
We are also pleased with our 75.1% AP ratio and continue to see opportunities to improve our AP ratio to reduce our owned inventory.
Our owned inventory progress is allowing us to lead the industry in inventory per store at $577 000 which is a deliberate part of our superior availability strategy.
We are also pleased with the progress we made reducing our inventory growth to 15.1% in Q2 over the prior year from the 21.3% growth from Q1.
Our availability and quality of our inventory have never been better and has positioned us well to meet our customers' expectations.
Looking forward our improvement from our first quarter to favorable industry dynamics and our internal momentum give us confidence in our ability to continue to grow and improve our profitability.
As Darren highlighted in our press release we are encouraged by our solid start to our third quarter.
While our comparisons are more challenging in the second half of 2011 we believe that the investments that we have made in areas such as commercial advertising supply chain E-commerce and global sourcing combined with the investments we will make during the second half positions us to deliver on our annual 2011 EPS outlook.
We continue to make progress on our goal to achieve 12% operating margins over the next 2 to 3 years.
With a large portion of our capabilities built and the growth momentum we have in areas like Commercial we are confident in our ability to get there.
Over those 2 to 3 years we expect the drivers to get to 12% we'll primarily come through a more competitive cost structure and modest gross profit expansion from where we are today.
As we look out from a gross profit perspective we are delighted by the significant improvements we've made in our gross profit rate over the past 3 years and believe that the structural drivers from areas such as global sourcing future supply-chain efficiencies availability and merchandising capabilities remain intact and have a modest upside potential longer term.
These structural drivers will help offset the continued accelerated growth of our Commercial business as well as inflationary and competitive pressures.
That said in the near term we continue to expect our gross profit rate will be constrained for the balance of the year driven by supply chain deleverage as a result of the increased investments due to the addition of over 80 HUB stores versus last year and higher fuel prices.
Additionally the timing of price changes will also constrain our gross profit rate as we respond to increased inflationary pressures while balancing our competitiveness.
We also see headwinds related to shrink as we refocus our efforts to regain our discipline and processes with respect to our availability initiatives in the short term.
Previously we have said that our gross profit would show a modest increase in 2011.
Given the headwinds we now expect our full year gross profit rate to decline modestly in 2011.
Turning to our cost structure.
We previously shared that we began the work in 2010 to identify opportunities within our operating model to build a more efficient sustainable and cost competitive structure to deliver our service model.
This work identified a number of opportunities for productivity enhancements reduce variability across our store performance and reductions in support costs furthest away from the customer.
As you can see in our second quarter results we started to see progress from our operating model work such as increased productivity from areas such as labor in our Commercial programs reduced variability in store cost outliers and decreased support and discretionary expenses that are furthest away from the customer in areas such as consulting fees travel and supplies.
We are very pleased with the momentum we are building around a more competitive cost structure and continue to be on track to deliver our flat to 2% SG&amp;A per store growth outlook for fiscal 2011.
Most importantly and included in our operating model work is taking out costs furthest away from the customer that we can continue and invest in customer facing areas such as Commercial E-commerce and reinvigorating our DIY business.
We will continue to make investments in these areas to grow our business including back half investments in areas such as Commercial.
These back half investments are included in our SG&amp;A for store outlook.
In closing we remain confident focused and committed to growing our business by delivering on our service promise and improving our profit model.
And our second quarter results show we are on the right path.
We also could not be more proud of our talented team members for the results they delivered in our second quarter and who continue to propel us towards our full potential.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> So in the first quarter when same store sales rep 1.5% you had noted they probably should have been up around 5% but the shortfall was probably evenly split between weather challenges on the East Coast as well as some of the company-specific disruptions.
So we've been pretty sequentially about a percentage point from the first quarter.
Do you think that was primarily the reversal in the weather challenges and that perhaps the disruptions from changing the coverage of your District Manager responsibilities probably had less of a negative impact than you had thought? Yes Dan.
I think the majority of it to be honest is our teams settling into their new roles and the DLs.
We knew we wouldn’t solve it in a quarter and when we look at regionality and in the first quarter we said regionality was about 1.5 points of the outcome.
When we look at regionality this year maybe a simple way to think about it is that 90% of our stores are East of the Mississippi 10% of our stores are West of the Mississippi.
When we look at the industry data the industry in total what we can see is if you take DIY East of the Mississippi the industry versus West of the Mississippi the industry the East lagged the West by roughly 250 basis points in DIY.
And so what we're still seeing and that's just we say you can't change who your parents are and you can't change the fact that 90% of our stores are East of the Mississippi.
And we're still seeing some of that regionality impact in terms of the concentration of our stores.
Now in the Commercial business it's the same saying.
There's very little difference East of the Mississippi or West of the Mississippi.
And as we said in our prepared remarks what we can see is the Commercial business as an industry remains very strong.
The DIY business has slowed and it has slowed particularly East of the Mississippi relative to West of the Mississippi.
So if you math it out we still have a drag in our overall numbers as a result of some of that regionality.
But what we are seeing and that's part of our comments in terms of certainly as we come into the third quarter as the teams are settling into their jobs as the Commercial cams which I think were up 50 year-to-date versus a year ago they settle into those relationships that's helped propel Commercial growth and certainly has helped with our DL structure allow us more time in stores to work with our teams.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And so then just as a follow-up for Kevin on your payables inventory rate.
You have increased modestly year-over-year about 3 percentage points.
In past meetings you talked about eventually taking your payables to 100% of inventories.
What will be needed to accelerate it via the pace of that improvement? Is it just simply slowing the rates of your gross inventory investments? Two things.
You're correct essentially the net number as we have days of supply of inventory and days of payables.
And essentially what we had in this quarter was that the rise in debt payable days was being constrained by a 15% increase in overall inventory which is increasing the days of total inventory.
As we roll forward that delta year-over-year in days of inventory will moderate by the end of the year and quite frankly reverse as you get in the first quarter.
Additionally we are improving programs vendor-by-vendor week-by-week as we move forward.
I think those numbers most notably as you get out of the first quarter of next year will reflect a sizable and nice improvement in the AP ratio.
Your next question is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
It's Gary in for me and I'll start and then lots of follow-up.
A question that we get a lot I’m hoping you can address it on the call is your comps were better but they're still running a little bit behind your competitors’.
And one of the concerns seems to be that in all this labor shuffling that you've done with some of the new programs that perhaps you've actually pulled up too much labor from the stores and that’s having an impact especially in the DIY business.
Could you address that? Yes.
Gary I can.
We went through the quarter this year -- well actually the beginning of the year we have been executing on a plan that we actually developed last year.
So last year we went through a holistic review of our cost structure.
And it's no secret you can just do the SG&amp;A per store and you can see that our SG&amp;A per store is higher.
But I'll remind everyone our sales at the end of this quarter per store was about $1.7 million on a trailing 12 basis.
So near at the top of the industry too.
As we looked across the cost structure and even the SG&amp;A leverage we saw this quarter a big chunk of that came out of support center costs professional fees and a lot of the great work they did last year to identify where we could make those cost cuts.
And we made some edits in terms of our store operating model.
The truth is is that over time whether we had a $5 million store or whether we had a $1.2 million store we had similar management structures.
And you know what it was a hard decision but we added it out in I would say more appropriately sized those management structures for the volumes of those stores.
What we didn't do is then double back and cut the hours and so what we do is store-by-store we do a buildup in terms of the hours per store based on the transactions that they do.
What we did do is variabilize some of the cost structure across our store operating model and that's part of what sits in the numbers.
Did we edit some hours and store operations in AGMs and did we probably lose a little bit of sales on the top line because of it? I'm certain we lost some.
I'm certain we lost some.
Overall these are not easy processes.
But ultimately the way we think about it looking out we continue to invest in our labor capabilities in terms of our own internal language of CDL.
Trying to make sure that we're putting the hours to the right stores at the right time in terms of transaction and activity.
We'll take another step as we go into next year in terms of tools for that labor model.
But this is part of that process where ultimately we've added it in one place as I say to the teams we reinvested in other places like the growth of a 20% of our DL ranks in training and development 50 person increase in our camps and also adding to our NPTs.
And as we look to the back half of the year we will continue to do our Commercial way process which is adding hours back to our stores in locations where we see Commercial demand.
So it's not as easy as I said.
We can't make it spreadsheet perfect.
But what our ultimate goal is that we need to continue to evolve our operating model consistent with the strategic direction of our company.
The follow-up for Mike if it's okay.
The gross margin and SG&amp;A -- thanks for the color for the back half of the year.
Maybe can you get a little bit more granular and help us think about the progression? On the shrink does that mean you have to take a couple of steps back to make additional progress? Or should we see the gross margin contraction moderate sequentially? And then how should we think about the SG&amp;A dollar growth? Does it stay sub-1% for the rest of the year? Okay yes.
Maybe I'll talk about gross profit first.
So what we've said for the year is that we now expect for it to be down versus what we said before for the year it was modestly up.
And the drivers of that is we have deliberately and we said at the beginning of the year we are protecting our supply chain.
That is the largest driver.
And the great news is in the out years that's going to give us great efficiency that's why we're doing it.
But in these years when we're investing so that's a big driver.
The other driver will be inflation some level of inflation.
And that's made up of fuel costs and then commodity pricing and Charles will talk a little bit about that.
And that's volatile.
In this uncertain environment right now we've been watching those things move around so there's some volatility there so that becomes harder to predict.
And then shrink that was -- over the last couple of years and we said in our remarks that we're extremely proud of our progress we've made in shrink.
And we believe we lead the industry in terms of our shrink performance.
That said we set some high expectations and we fell a little bit short.
We got a little bit away from our execution and operational practices.
And the good news is that's something we're in full control of.
But that will take us a little bit so that will be a little bit of a headwind.
So the way I would think about gross profit for the balance of the year is we're traveling currently up 10 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
We anticipate on being down so probably you'd expect to see the similar kinds of declines that we saw in the second quarter.
And again that's not predicting.
I'm just saying it's going to be closer to what you saw in Q2 than what you saw at Q1 in terms of a decline.
And then in terms of SG&amp;A we're extremely proud of the progress we made.
Darren talked a little bit about that.
We started the work last week -- or last year sorry on our op model work.
And really it's premised on the fact of growth.
And if you remember in the first 3 years we talked about we were spending dollars -- and the other side of the entry is we were building capabilities and you were watching our growth and you're watching our margin expand.
I think a similar thing is we're taking cost furthest away from the customer things like discretionary expenses and professional services travel things that the customer doesn't value.
That's enabling us to put those dollars back into the growth parts of our business.
And Darren talked about it: Commercial e-services global sourcing.
So we anticipate that that trajectory that we saw in Q2 is going to continue through the back half of the year.
And as Darren said we expect this to continue to see productivity on things like our labor.
Another stat is our Commercial programs or the dollars that we pull out of each Commercial program.
The productivity improved.
I think we're at $618 000 per store.
We're 11% more productive than last year and 45% more productive on a 3-year basis.
So as we get more productive as we take our costs furthest away from the customer we anticipate that our SG&amp;A will continue to grow at a slower rate and I think I said it in my remarks I'm not going to give you a number but we feel comfortable that we're still going to hit the flat to 2% SG&amp;A growth for the year.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
And just to follow up on the SG&amp;A improvements sort of how they layer in on execution.
Both of you I think talked about the portion in the support center and the headquarters versus the stores.
Where are you now in terms of executing on taking those costs out both at the store level and at the headquarters? Are we 100% done now on close through? Are we 60% done or does the second quarter because of timing actually have a little bit more improvement than you thought? Because it sounds like you made a lot of gains in the second quarter but with SG&amp;A still flat to up 2 per store that you expect that actually to pick up a little bit for the rest of the year.
Yes so Greg I think the way that we think -- I don't know if that work will ever be over for us.
We're always going to look to build a competitive business model.
I would say we're in the early innings.
And the early innings may be that you're going to take the costs out furthest away from the customer that may not last as long.
Actually getting cost out of things that are less productive and moving them into more productive I think that will go on for a foreseeable period of time but we did the work last year.
We don't provide anything beyond this year.
And we're comfortable with the outlook that we've shared with you previously.
But we see over the last couple of years we've built up our cost.
We have the highest cost in the industry and I think that our goal is to make sure those costs are as productive as they can be.
And I think the work is continuing to make sure that we take the unproductive cost out.
So I still think we're in the early innings of that work.
Yes Mike.
You would also say --  Greg this is Darren.
I don't see us being the cost leader in the industry.
I agree with Mike that there's perpetual work and there's more work in the near-term for sure to continue to work on that cost structure and like our margin story that didn't unfold in a year.
I think it will build over the next several years in terms of striking that right balance between productivity and growth and service levels.
And so we see an opportunity in many of our stores right now to be honest that there's still investments to make because the service levels and growth opportunities are still high that's why.
And principally they'll sit in wave stores but they also sit in other markets.
The other example I would give that might not be as clear is that in our supply chain today we talk about the headwinds that we're facing from investments.
We’ve got headwinds in supply chain for the 3 years that the team has been running that and we've been able to offset those headwinds with gains from those capabilities.
We have probably our largest single investment in CapEx happening right now in our supply chain.
It's pointed us towards much more efficient cost-efficient model.
It isn't going to land in our P&amp;L this year.
We'll start to see glimpses of it probably a year to 1.5 years out.
But these things take time in terms of us changing things structurally versus just changing things on a temporary basis.
So there are still pieces out there in terms of the long-term cost structure that will show up in the margin that are headwinds today for sure benefits tomorrow as we look out over the horizon.
And in our SG&amp;A structure just found if you do it 10% across the board that's not the right way to approach it.
So systematically approaching it and doing it at a pace where you're both able to ensure growth service levels and productivity is the path that we're on.
And if I could follow up quickly on the buyback pace.
You did over $600 million last year the business appears to at least generate $400 million-plus of free cash flow if you're getting the working capital improvement.
I know that turns around a little bit this year but I assume that the back half will continue to have a slower pace just given that seasonally is not when you get as much cash coming in the door or how are you thinking about it? Is it just manage it to that 2.5x debt to EBITDAR or? Yes.
I mean I think you start there.
We’re committed to keeping within our investment grade and making sure we maintain our leverage ratio and we said it in our remarks.
We trade at a significant discount and the other side of that entry is this management team has a very large confidence in our team members and in our ability to continue to create value and we never comment on what we're going to buy going forward.
But we won't hesitate to continue to buy back our stock.
And at the end of the day that's always the last thing we think about.
We've piled a lot of dollars into this business and built up capabilities and you've seen it in our growth and you've seen it in our margin expansion.
And if there are opportunities to put dollars in to continue to grow our business that's what we look for first and then our buyback is kind of how we think about it kind of what's left.
We typically don't comment Greg.
But we bought back about 10% of our sales again this year on top of the 13.6% we bought back last year.
And we are pleased that we're getting it and we're a little perplexed on our value to be honest with you.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
My first question relates to pricing.
You intimated that you had made some adjustments over the course of the quarter and that there are lots of moving pieces as it related to input costs and also to competitive dynamics.
If you can give us a sense as to the nature of those adjustments.
Where they in commodity items were they up and down the mix of the business and what kind of impact do you think they had to your top line and to your margin rate? Yes Matt.
This is Kevin.
We've seen a pretty significant dose of inflation come through and it's gone through our entire industry.
It's anchored on commodities.
So it's products like -- what sits underneath our products like lead steel oil and has generally led to price inflation at retail.
That said there has also been competitive pressure across the industry as the entire industry is seeing those increases at a time when the pace of growth of the industry is more modest than it was last year.
Those conspired to put pressure on us and we have excellent systems to know what the competitive and prevailing price of products are in the marketplace.
So we stayed with a strategy that we've been on for many years of maintaining our competitiveness and essentially got impacted in the squeeze.
I do not know inflationary impacts as we go forward.
Obviously there's an awful lot going on in the world these days that would suggest uncertainty.
But what I can tell you is the way that we approach things which is we are going to maintain our competitive position in pricing and maintain the programs that we have through global sourcing and price optimization to maintain the margins as high as we can.
And my second question relates to inventory.
As you exited the first quarter inventory was up a good deal.
You sounded somewhat dissatisfied at the time at the levels of those inventory and a bit concerned with the consequences of those levels for margin going forward.
As we're a quarter further in you seem more contented with inventory levels.
So if you could just talk to us how the inventory increase relative to sales relates to some of the programs you spoke about be it in stock parts availability and others and whether in fact there has been or will be any consequences to margin from the overage that you had there a quarter ago.
Yes couple of things.
One we overshot the runway in first quarter beyond our own expectations and had undershot the runway the year before.
So we were -- if you went back a full year ago we've had a great first quarter and ended the quarter lower in inventory than our desire and we made the opposite correction and adjustment this past year.
Those investments are in our part business.
It's a reflection of inventory upgrades HUB expansions and quite frankly additional inventory and safety stock beyond what we perceive was needed.
We're pleased to say that the things that we look at which is the customer perception of availability are high and competitively in a wonderful place.
If we look at in-stocks they have never been higher.
That said we don't believe that it was necessary to have that significant increase in inventory to maintain those positions and that became true at the end of this quarter.
We're not up 21% we're up 15% and yet we're hitting all the numbers that we aspire to hit.
And those numbers will be on their way down in the quarters ahead as we maintain the goal which is product availability for our customer with the most prudent investment of inventory that we can have.
So I think you'll see that moderate for the next several quarters.
And consequences for grosses I think you had alluded to some perhaps last quarter.
Did that pan out? I'm sorry say that again? Consequences to gross margin rate as you work through that for markdowns which I wouldn’t imagine would be a big deal or a leverage of any kind of fixed cost over the inventory base? Yes.
We model out the sale of our products over long periods of time.
And basically as the fleet of cars hit the road they begin to fail as the out years occur.
It builds to a peak and then moderates down but it occurs over about a 10-year horizon.
So unlike a business that would be apparel or high-technology products the rate of obsolescence is very very slow in our industry.
So generally this was not a risk to margins or a risk to obsolescence.
It was more of getting ahead of ourselves in availability and we are selling off that inventory into a more preferred position over a period of several quarters.
Our next question is from Kate McShane with Citi Investment Research.
If I could just follow up on the last question.
How much success did you have during the quarter in tapping some of these higher prices through? And are you trying to pass through 100% of the cost increases that you're seeing? And in regards to the price competition what are the categories where you're seeing the most pressure? Yes.
Essentially our ability to pass the price increases through is generally good in this industry.
This is not a highly price-sensitive industry and it has been that the majority of the inflation that we've seen then ends up reflecting on the prices that we charge.
That said I would say that as is obvious the increases in prices that we're getting caused by inflation are happening at a higher rate at this point than we’re successfully able to pass them on through.
If you stand back and look at it over time time is on our side.
And generally the true cost of the products ultimately is reflected at retail.
And I think this has more to do with a quarter-to-quarter impact more so than a long-term structural issue.
It is also uncertain at this point with just the global economy what the underlying prices for steel lead and oil will be.
So that's not something I'm skilled at predicting at this point.
In terms of the specific categories where the inflation’s coming in is products that have a lot of lead a lot of steel and a lot of oil but we don't give specific category breakdowns of what we're seeing in terms of pricing.
Okay great.
And then my second question is on the E-commerce business since it's still somewhat a recent event since you relaunched your site.
Are there any significant investments that you have left that's contributing to your SG&amp;A spend for this year? I think the investment profile that we have in the E-commerce business is likely to be similar ahead of us as it has been behind us.
We are very early in that cycle.
The growth rates that we're seeing are -- we're delighted with and are unusually high.
Some of that is playing catch-up for competitors that put E-commerce businesses on years ahead of us.
But I don't see that as a factor in a growth of SG&amp;A.
It's more of a consistent investment profile in the quarters ahead.
And our final question today comes from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
I guess what I wanted to dig a little bit more into was the cost side of things.
You talked about the 138 basis points of expense savings or leverage.
I was wondering if you could maybe quantify a little bit the variable component versus the incentive comp versus what you're anniversary-ing? And what we should think about sticks versus what may have to come back to drive sales and what’s a much more challenging comp environment for the second half of the year? Yes.
So Tony I'm not going to break out the basis points for you but I'll tell you there were kind of 3 areas that we talked about.
And the first one is our incentive comp programs.
And here's the thing.
We design our incentive compensation programs for growth.
And this year we grew at 44 last year we grew at 72.
So you would expect that our incentive comps across our business including at our SSC [ph] were lower than last year so we were able to leverage that in the quarter.
If you ask me do I hope we leverage that looking forward? The answer is no because we want to grow.
And that's why we design those programs is to grow.
And then the other components in terms of productivity that we're going to see from our programs' previous investments we've made like in Commercial and I talked to you about the productivity we're seeing in the sales per program we'd expect that to continue.
We've made great investments and our teams continue to deliver and bring on new customers and grow our Commercial programs.
I think they're incented and [indiscernible] this will be our fourth consecutive year of double-digit Commercial growth.
So we'd expect to continue to see more productivity.
I think the biggest donor is building a more cost-competitive structure and taking costs out of our business that aren't productive.
And I think that's where we're going to see the best and the most amount of progress and we started to see that.
That was a piece of our SG&amp;A leverage.
I don't anticipate we're going to take out 138 basis points every quarter but I would anticipate the largest portion is going to be coming from taking costs that don't matter to our customers and that are not yielding us a good return.
So Kevin talked about this a little bit.
When we put dollars into E-commerce we get a good return.
When we put dollars into global sourcing we get a good return.
And probably our greatest return comes when we put dollars into Commercial.
So the whole idea is actually taking dollars out of the nonproductive parts of our cost structure and putting them into those areas I talked about.
So that's kind of how we're thinking about it and Darren said it and I’ll reinforce it is this is going to be a multiyear journey but we feel pleased with the progress we're making.
And I couldn't be more proud and I want to say this with our team.
These ideas aren't coming from the top of the house.
These ideas are coming from our 52 000 team members that are giving us ideas on where we can take costs out and moving them into areas that they can help us be more productive.
So I think in the quarter we had 700 ideas that came in through our team members.
So that's not lost on our leadership team that it’s actual our team members that are leading this work.
That's great that's helpful.
And maybe if I could just have one follow-up on the shrink in the gross margin.
It seems like you're doing extremely well and then maybe something happened that you took your eye off the ball whether it's the increased inventory whether it's some of the shifting going on at the DIY level.
I'm assuming the shrink component was more driven on the front of the store but perhaps maybe that's not the case.
Could you just give a little bit more color on what transpired and what you now have done to sort of fix that problem? Yes.
So I might go back to what we said.
We are extremely proud of the progress we've made and in fact we haven't changed any of our practices.
We still do full physical so a lot of our processes in how we measure shrink haven't changed at all.
And I think you named a few of them.
We have a little bit more inventory.
We're actually doing some tweaks to our operating model.
I would call those -- we're not going to use those as excuses.
We're extremely proud of the capability we’ve built up in our team.
And it's not one person or 2 people it's our entire field team and our stores support teams that have worked in collaboration to actually get to that outcome.
And I think what happened is we have a lot of stuff going on and it's just like any other business that sometimes when you take your eye off something the results can wander a little bit and that's what’s happened.
And what we've said is we're going to get back to operations we're going to get back to execution and the good news is this is within our control.
The challenge is it’s not an on-off switch so that's why we said it's going to be over the next few quarters.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I will turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
If you have any additional questions please contact me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452 and that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor Provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments of results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for fiscal year ended January 1 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found in our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our fourth quarter earnings release is scheduled for Thursday February 16 2012 before the market opens and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday February 16 2012.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up to the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for one year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter conference call.
I'd like to thank our 52 000 Advance team members for delivering record results during the third quarter through their dedication and service to our customers.
We are pleased with our third quarter results that included strong growth in our commercial sales along with incremental improvements in our DIY trends.
During the quarter we generated a 2.2% comparable store sales gain which was on top of a 9.9% comp gain last year.
It was our best quarterly sales performance in 2011 on a 2-year basis.
Our sales performance continues to be driven by our ability to serve our customers and inspire our team members as reflected in our improving customer satisfaction scores and consistent operations execution.
Now despite the sequential improvement on our sales performance this year the regional dynamics of our business continue to weigh our overall sales growth in DIY.
Nearly 90% of our stores are concentrated east of the Mississippi River.
Within those geographies the pace of industry growth for DIY has slowed by more than 700 basis points versus the rate of growth during the third quarter last year.
Comparatively industry growth for DIY in the western half of the U.S.
outpaced the east by more than 300 basis points in the current third quarter.
This trend has been consistent the entire year and we anticipate it will continue in the fourth quarter.
However over the long term we believe the impacts of regionality could be much less volatile and the industry fundamentals remain solid across the entire U.S.
Turning to our profitability.
Our team materially improved our performance during the quarter which is reflected in our 20.8% increase in operating income and our 167-basis point increase in our operating income rate.
It was a record 12.1% rate for the third quarter.
Our earnings per share also grew significantly to $1.41 an increase of 37% versus the third quarter last year.
We are delighted by these results which reflect our ability to drive solid sales growth while improving and accelerating our profitability through leveraging our investments and adjusting our costs that are not enabling our long-term growth and profitability objectives.
In 2010 we developed a blueprint to help us create a more cost-competitive and efficient organization.
This work continues to help us streamline and simplify our organizational structure to reduce costs and minimize the impact to sales and our service levels.
Overall our cost management drove our record bottom line results.
It is a delicate balancing act yet the progress we've made over the past year is encouraging.
Mike will provide more specifics on the financial impact of that work.
The focus of our investments and strategies have been aimed at providing a better and different customer service experience than our competition.
This intense focus on our values and our promise Service is our best part combined with strong industry dynamics has allowed us to increase our overall return on invested capital to 18.8%.
As a company we will continue to be focused on the fundamentals of our business and reaping the rewards of running the business with consistency and excellence.
This year we began the work to be the leader in service and putting in place foundational service and operations excellence at every store.
We began that work by increasing the number of district leader positions to allow for more focused coaching and development within our stores.
We have also begun to roll out tools and training that better enable us to understand both the quantity and the quality of our team members and appropriately match them with the times of day when our customers shop with us most.
We will continue to prioritize service leadership through accelerating our commercial growth and igniting our talented team members with training and tools to serve our customers better.
We will continue to benefit from our delivery and online ordering capabilities that allow us to fulfill our customers' needs with speed reliability and consistency.
Our investment hub stores and our work to maximize storage capacity for parts in our stores continue to allow us to strengthen our in-market availability while leveraging our larger box sizes.
We also continue to make progress on opening our new Remington DC which will allow us to create much-needed capacity to fill the demands of our customers.
Selectively our strategy has positioned us to increase our availability as well as the service level and productivity of every team member through increased customer engagement and service excellence.
Before I close I want to share a story about a team member who exemplifies what Service is our best part means to Advance Auto Parts.
Alice Hodgkins [ph] the Assistant General Manager in the store in Staunton Virginia has been with the company for over 40 years.
District Leader Bob Bratcher says she exemplifies the difference between transactions and interactions by creating interactions and truly forming relationships with her customers.
Alice's attitude and enthusiasm at work as she serves each and every customer with a smile on her face is very inspiring to her coworkers.
Fellow team members say that they respect Alice for the way in which she takes care of each customer from start to finish.
And she has set that bar high in store customer service.
Alice backs up her positive personality with extreme parts knowledge and makes sure she gets enough information for the customers to fully satisfy their needs.
I commend Alice for her personal commitment and passion for service in the store and in her community as she strives to live the Advance value every day with every customer.
Congratulations Alice and keep up the great work.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Wade our President to discuss our service leadership strategy.
Jim? Thank you Darren and good morning.
I'll start by saying thank you to our team for the record sales and profit results we're reporting this morning.
Our continued commitment to inspiring our teams and serving our customers better than anyone else directly led to our higher sales and higher productivity during the third quarter.
In addition to record sales and profits our customer satisfaction scores rose again this quarter.
Our total comp store sales grew by 2.2% in the third quarter which is on top of our record-setting 9.9% increase during the same quarter last year.
The third quarter represented our toughest comp comparison for the year and we're pleased with how our team responded to the challenge.
We continue to outperform the market and gain significant market share in our rapidly growing Commercial business which represented 37.2% of our total sales in the third quarter compared to 34.6% during the third quarter last year.
We continue to see significant potential to grow our Commercial business and to gain market share.
We again saw some short-term impact of customers performing only the necessary repairs on their vehicles and delaying maintenance from both a DIY and Commercial perspective.
This continues to be driven by the high unemployment rate and high gas prices which are constraining consumer spending and driving habits.
However vehicles continue to age which is creating greater repair needs because of the higher number of average miles per vehicle.
Gas prices have moderated somewhat and deferred repairs will be performed overtime as they always have.
These factors will allow us to continue to grow well into the future.
Our DIY business remained somewhat challenging.
However we continue to see sequential improvement in DIY and our third quarter growth was our best thus far this year.
And again this is on top of our toughest comp comparison for the year.
Our work to provide our store teams more tools to increase their development coaching and training our teams' focus and energy to serve our customers better continued parts availability increases and refined marketing and advertising initiatives are making a difference.
While we have seen some sequential improvement in DIY we still have our teams to grow and improve.
We've shared with you over the last several quarters our work to continue to strengthen our store staffing model.
Our initiatives have been focused on having the right people at the right time to align with the traffic patterns of both our DIY and commercial customers.
The next phase of this work is to ensure we have the highest quality of engagement within each stores during the times when our customers visit and call our stores most.
Our efforts have yielded increases in our productivity and allowed us to be more flexible and better respond to business demand.
We continue to see great results from this work and we'll continue to refine it over time to ensure we have both the appropriate quality and quantity of staffing to better serve our customers and achieve higher productivity levels.
Our focus will also continue to be on our training and development further measuring our progress with respect to our staffing model increasing our productivity through maximizing our previous investments and focusing on the consistent execution of those fundamentals that our customers value most.
Lastly we continue to reach new customers and grew our sales through successful new store openings.
During the third quarter we opened 20 stores and closed 2 stores.
Year-to-date we've opened 85 stores.
As of the end of our third quarter our total store count was 3 645 including 203 Autopart International stores.
In closing I'd like to again thank our team as they continue to serve our customers and achieve record sales and profits.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer to discuss our superior availability strategy.
Thanks Jim and good morning.
I'd also like to thank the team for their hard work in the third quarter.
I'll take a moment to update you on our initiatives to support our superior availability strategy and highlight a few of our accomplishments during the quarter.
Our goal is to provide customers with superior availability providing the right parts to our customers our customers' needs when they need them.
In order to achieve our goal we've been working to better position our parts inventory to ensure both speedy and accurate deliveries.
Our hub store strategy is key to achieving that goal.
Our work in this space has been twofold increasing the number of hubs in the marketplace as well as providing delivery capability from strategically positioned hubs.
As a result we worked to aggressively add a number of hub stores that provide daily deliveries which now sits at 252 or an increase of 79 since Q3 2010.
During third quarter we upgraded inventory in 116 stores and 767 year-to-date.
As a result of our efforts to add hub stores and to maximize store-level capacity our in-stock levels were up nearly 100 basis points over last year and are at a record high.
Our inventory positions during the quarter were up 14.7% versus the third quarter of last year.
We continue to expect our total inventory growth to be in the low double digits for the year.
We continue to work aggressively to manage our inventory investment -- our increased investment in inventory and have been able to reduce our owned inventory per store by nearly 5% due to our work to increase our accounts payable to inventory ratio.
Our work in this space has led to an increase in our AP ratio of roughly 420 basis points versus the third quarter of last year and now stands at 75.2%.
We are very proud of the accomplishments made and we'll continue to work to expand our AP ratio in the future.
Turning to gross profit.
Our gross profit rate declined 87 basis points to 49.5% versus the third quarter of last year.
This anticipated decline was driven by several factors.
First our gross profit rate continues to be impacted by unfavorable shrink.
Our teams continue to work diligently to get back to the high level of asset protection achieved over the past couple of years.
Second our supply chain costs continue to be a headwind as a result of increased fuel prices increased hubs and deliveries.
Finally our margins were impacted by the commodity and price inflation and the related timing of our retail price changes.
Partially offsetting these headwinds were a continued improvement in DC productivity and continued benefits from our merchandising global sourcing and pricing capabilities.
We are on pace to open our Remington Indiana DC during the second quarter of 2002.
The new DC will provide us with much-needed capacity and will be by far our most advanced DC within our distribution network.
Once this new DC is up and running we'll be able to benefit from additional productivity improvements and continue to increase our overall availability.
Our B2C Internet platform is celebrating its second full year of operations and we have been absolutely delighted with the progress we've made.
We continue to increase the number of customers who visit the site and the amount of transactions they generate.
I want to congratulate our E-Commerce team on their efforts to build a world-class online shopping experience for our customers.
From a B2B Internet standpoint we continue to perform above expectations and are working diligently to add customers to the site.
This capability allows us to compete more effectively and ultimately provides the convenience and service levels our customers expect.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their contributions to the financial outcomes we delivered during our third quarter of 2011.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning.
One provide some financial highlights from our third quarter of 2011; two put our third quarter results into context with the key financial dimensions that we use to measure our performance; and three share with you what we see for the remainder of 2011 and insights into how we are thinking about 2012.
During the third quarter our revenue increased 4.2% driven by 105 net new stores over the past 12 months and a comp store sales increase of 2.2% which was on top of a 9.9% comp store sales gain during the third quarter last year.
As both Darren and Jim mentioned we are very pleased with the growth as our third quarter represented our most challenging comparison for the entire year.
We also experienced strong growth from Autopart International which grew 17.4% over the third quarter last year.
As Kevin mentioned our gross profit rate in the third quarter was 49.5% versus 50.3% in the third quarter last year or a decrease of 87 basis points.
This was in line with our expectations.
The decline versus prior year was driven by increased shrink increased supply chain expenses due to investments in hubs higher fuel costs and commodity price inflation combined with the timing of retail price changes.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate decreased slightly by 19 basis points to 49.9%.
Our decrease in gross profit rate was in line with our previous outlook provided during our second quarter conference call.
As previously shared we anticipate our full year gross profit rate will be down modestly compared to last year.
This anticipates our fourth quarter gross profit to be down from prior year but the decline is expected to be less than the decline in the third quarter.
Turning to our cost structure.
Our SG&amp;A rate was 37.3% during the third quarter versus 39.9% during the third quarter of 2010.
This 254-basis point decrease was primarily due to reduced incentive compensation as a result of our lower comp store sales growth versus last year productivity improvements from our variable customer-driven labor model which includes anniversary and investment rollout expenses as well as a significant decrease in support costs from our operating model work.
Partially offsetting this was increased investments in areas such as commercial and e-commerce combined with the timing of some expenses.
Based on our diligent cost management and commitment to building a more competitive cost structure we now anticipate our SG&amp;A per store to be down slightly for the full year.
All in our operating income grew 20.8% and our operating income rate increased 167 basis points to 12.1% for the quarter.
This was on top of last year's 32% increase in operating income and 160-basis point improvement in operating income rate.
Year-to-date our operating income has increased 10.3% and on a rate basis has increased 65 basis points to 11.4%.
Our third quarter diluted EPS increased 36.9% to $1.41 versus $1.03 last year.
Year-to-date our diluted EPS is up 24.3% on top of last year's 29.1% comparable EPS increase.
Free cash flow through the third quarter was $354.8 million versus $467.9 million last year.
The decrease in free cash flow was driven primarily by the change in owned inventory this year to date versus last year as well as higher planned capital expenditures.
Our accounts payable to inventory ratio increased 420 basis points to 75.2% as of the third quarter of 2011 from 71% versus the same period last year as part of our continued efforts to reduce our net owned inventory.
During the third quarter we repurchased 1.7 million shares of our stock for $100 million at an average price of $58.81 per share.
Through the third quarter we have repurchased approximately 9.9 million shares of stock at a cost of $609.6 million at an average price of $61.51 per share.
These repurchases continue to be reflective of our confidence in our company's ability to grow profitably and to create long-term shareholder value.
As of the end of the third quarter we have $200 million remaining under our current $300 million authorized share repurchase program.
Strategically we continue to position the company for growth and improve profitability and we are delighted by these financial results as they demonstrate our commitment to growth and improved profitability.
Our performance in our third quarter demonstrates we are on the right path and reinforces our commitment to accelerate growth improve profitability and drive shareholder value.
We continue to measure our performance based on these 3 dimensions.
Our commitment to growing our business is reflected by another strong quarter of commercial comp store sales growth.
Our commercial sales per program have grown to $630 000 and over the past 3 years have increased 47% or $200 000 per store.
We remain committed to growing our sales per store and improving our operating income rate to 12% over the next few years.
Our third quarter results provide evidence that we can improve our profitability given our 160-basis point improvement -- 167-basis point improvement in operating income rate to 12.1% and our year-to-date operating income rate of 11.4%.
On a 2-year basis our operating income rate is up over 325 basis points.
Turning to shareholder value.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital as reflected in our 18.8% return on invested capital which represents an increase of 147 basis points over the third quarter last year and a 440-basis point improvement over the past 3 years.
The increase in ROIC is driven by our improved operating performance as well as our continued efforts to reduce our owned inventory.
Next I would like to link our third quarter performance to what we see for the balance of 2011 as well as provide some insights on 2012.
While we are very pleased in our ability to rebound from our difficult start to the year and deliver sequential increases in operating income growth in both the second and third quarters we certainly do not expect the same level of improvement versus prior year in our fourth quarter.
We are cautiously optimistic about the remainder of the year given our fourth quarter has a challenge in comparison to last year and historically is the most volatile quarter given the changes in weather seasonality shift in the timing of consumer spending and the trade-offs consumers make during the holiday shopping season.
That said given our strong third quarter we now anticipate our annual EPS outlook to be $4.90 to $4.95.
Achieving this outcome in 2011 will result in another 20%-plus increase in EPS and over 20% compounded annual EPS growth over the past 4 years on a comparable basis.
As we look to 2012 we will continue to build on our growth and profit successes over the past several years.
We expect the industry dynamics to remain favorable as a result of the continued increase in the average age of vehicles and an increase in mix of vehicles that are 7 to 10-plus years old.
This gives us confidence to invest in the customer and team member-facing parts of our business to continue to drive growth.
We anticipate continued top line growth driven by our strong commercial comps combined with continued new store growth to be at least at 2011 levels.
We expect to continue to build on our progress to achieve our goal of 12% operating margins over the next few years.
We expect the drivers to getting the 12% will primarily come through a more competitive cost structure and modest gross profit expansion from where we are today.
As we have previously shared we are delighted by the significant improvements we've made in our gross profit rate over the past 3 years and firmly believe that the structural drivers of our gross profit rate remain intact.
We continue to see opportunities to improve our gross profit rate driven by the expansion of our global sourcing business and private label strategy improvements in our shrink performance and through future supply chain productivity improvements.
These structural drivers will help offset headwinds as a result of an increasing mix of commercial business as well as inflationary and competitive pressures.
Turning to our cost structure.
We are focused on building a more efficient sustainable and competitive cost structure.
As we have shared our operating model work is multi-year work and reflects the opportunities we see to increase our productivity reduce our variability of store performance and our continued efforts to reduce support cost furthest away from the customer.
We expect to continue the great progress we made in 2011.
Our growth ambitions will require us to continue to make investments in areas such as commercial global sourcing and e-commerce and these investments will be primarily funded through our efforts to improve our cost structure and simplify our operating model.
In closing our strong results during the third quarter continue to be a reflection of our teams' commitment to serve our customers.
Our strategic choices teams' execution and favorable industry dynamics continue to fuel our growth and give us confidence about the future.
Again I would like to thank all of our talented team members for their contributions to our third quarter results and for their unwavering commitment to grow our business through our Service is our best part promise while improving our profit model.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Simeon for Gary.
First on the Commercial business can you talk about what's happening in terms of account penetration with the existing customers versus adding new accounts? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes this is Jim.
We're seeing a combination of both in this over the years that we've grown Commercial.
That continues to be the trend.
But we're adding new customers in our markets and at the same time working really hard to retain and increase the penetration in existing customers we have.
So no real change in that trend during this past quarter.
Yes.
I mean what I would add is underneath those trends earlier this year I'd say right at the front end of this quarter we started to get real traction in our new B2B platform.
And that B2B platform with our customers we're seeing 3 good things happen.
One as we put those platforms in retention continues to improve.
We see our gross margins improve and we also see returns improve as well.
So as we've said before in the Commercial business in some respects we're playing catch-up.
Our B2B platform is now in some of those e-services that go with it.
So we feel good about the foundation of commercial as Jim said.
We feel real good about the new customers that we're adding.
And we feel good about the fact that we're adding that suite of B2B platform and other e-services that quite frankly we were behind on.
And now we feel like we're catching up on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up maybe for Mike regarding expenses and incentive comp.
If -- in the Q4 it looks like the compare is not so different from where you were in Q3.
And so if the sales environment stays the same or marginally improves and you hold out a variable constant should the expense performance in Q4 look similar to the way it did in Q3? Are there any other nuances in terms of year-end expense that we should think about? No.
I mean the thing you think as you look forward to Q4 is always volatile because it's a little bit lower sales.
And with a high fixed cost model you see a little bit less leverage.
You expect to see a little bit leverage -- less leverage because of the fixed cost nature.
But typically and you mentioned incentive comp as a reminder to you our bonus program is based on growth and it's uncapped.
And our philosophy has always been that we want to share the success of our team members.
And since we've implemented the program we've had strong growth and in effect we've had strong bonuses.
And in Q3 if you remember last year we did a 99 comp.
And this year we did a 22 comp.
So typically you wouldn't expect to see that kind of volatility.
But because we did the bonuses we saw a little bit more leverage in Q3 than we historically have.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up a little bit on that -- where you are in terms of rightsizing the labor staffing model that you started.
Where are you in that process and what sort of gap or the amount of hours you're able to shift between maybe your top 20% of stores versus your bottom 20? Just help us out on that side.
Yes.
So thanks Greg.
It's Mike.
Maybe instead of handling it that way maybe I'll just give you a higher frame of how we think about labor.
And labor is part of our bigger picture.
If you remember last year we started our out-model work.
And our out-model work was really grounded on building a more efficient sustainable and competitive cost structure.
And part of that we kind of looked at 3 areas.
One is productivity and efficiency variability in our store performance and kind of taking cost out furthest away from the customers.
So as we think about labor we just looked at our labor model and we got in there with a cross-functional team including field leaders.
And we realized we weren't doing a very good job matching our labor out when the customers are shopping.
So last year we put a new labor model in called it our customer-driven labor model.
And since we put that in and we saw it in Q2 and we saw it again in Q3 our field team is doing a wonderful job taking care of customers with the right labor match to when customers are shopping.
And we saw some leverage in that.
And we would expect to continue to improve that over time.
Our goal is not to cut labor.
Our job is to match labor when customers are shopping and kind of get that right mix of labor when customers are shopping.
And the great news is our team members did that during our third quarter.
Yes.
What I'd add Greg is that I think your question is a good one.
I think you have to think about it in 3 phases.
Phase 1 was as Mike said you know what can we do a better job just matching the quantity of labor when customers are shopping? I'd say Phase 2 as we have gotten into it is that even throughout the day we're finding better ways to allocate labor by hour of the day.
I think we still have work to do in terms of our commercial programs.
Because what we're trying to do is match our business with our customers' hours.
And you know what? I still think we have a better opportunity in terms of making sure we're there to support the commercial customers.
And along those lines we're spending time understanding in those hours are we making sure we have all the right ASE certified and qualified team members in the hours that the customers are shopping to.
So I don't know that the labor journey is ever done but I think the way we think about it is can we keep improving the service levels keep improving the training to support our customers and can we keep doing a better job supporting our team and customers and getting the right hours to the right store? Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up.
So Jim just want to thank you for all your years actively in the business and congratulations on retirement.
I appreciate the comments and I would say that this has been a great opportunity here in Advance.
And I'm not going anywhere.
I'm on the Board.
I'm connected.
We have a great team in place here in Advance to lead the company and I'll look forward to continue to be part of that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So that's the set up.
Darren so how do you do all the stuff that Jim was doing and sort of the reallocation of responsibilities? Well we're giving Jim Saturday and Sunday off now.
His part of it is -- so here's what I'd say is that we're fortunate to have a team in terms of our senior vice presidents that include -- and these are just meant to be examples but there are many that include Charles Tyson Bill Carter Carl Hauch and Greg Johnson as well as Sarah Powell and others that as organizations evolve Greg what my job is is to actually get leadership deeper into the organization.
So Donna Broom will be taking over in terms of our HR function.
That will be a growth opportunity for her.
She led our commercial sales probably one of the more focused customer-centric leaders that we have.
Carl Hauch has spent 20 years in operations will lead our field team.
Bill Carter came over from Bain and spent 5 years with us in terms of working on Commercial in terms of strategy just a fantastic leader working with our sales team now.
And Charles Tyson has picked up responsibilities for DIY and marketing.
So organizations go through what I'll call this renewal process and it's our job as leaders to actually have that next generation of leaders take on more leadership and growth for the organization.
We're fortunate and you know Judd very well.
Mike is doing that in finance and so I think it's just -- as I look at it I couldn't be more pleased.
If I had to take on the work we'd probably be in trouble.
But the fact that we have a bunch of senior vice presidents coming up underneath under Kevin's leadership and Mike's leadership I couldn't be more pleased.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question and then a follow-up on the cost structure.
I guess one of the concerns that we hear relates to managing team members with volatile compensation.
Obviously there's a lot of merit to paying people based on their performance but the movement in incentive comp has been pretty sharp it seems if you think about the payout last year and the payouts that are achieved this year.
So how have you worked at communicating that with the field? What kind of feedback do you get as the incentive comp moves around? And if you could also perhaps in that vein help us conceptualize how much an average store manager or associates' compensation might be moving as a result of the incentive comp? Yes so maybe I'll start and then I'm going to turn it to Darren.
So a couple years ago when we moved to this program and it wasn't a small change for us.
But as a reminder and again I'm going to say it again our bonus program -- and we believe it's competitive.
We always start off and want to always make sure our programs are competitive.
So that's foundational.
But as a reminder the program is based on growth and it's uncapped.
And I think that's a unique part of our program and our philosophy is that we want to share the success of our team members because they're the ones that help us grow.
And we've paid out record bonuses over the last number of years.
When you're looking at a number in Q3 you're actually looking at an average.
So that's true.
We did pay lower bonuses this quarter in relation to last quarter.
But we do have stores that are growing.
We have a number of stores that are still getting paid significant bonuses because of our philosophy around that.
And the program is designed to be market competitive and it's also designed to be market competitive at historical rates as well.
And to be honest with you we typically won't see the kind of swings at least we haven't historically when you go from a 10 comp to a 22 comp.
So we wouldn't expect that kind of volatility as we look forward.
And then in terms of communication of the program I think our field teams under Carl's leadership have done a great job.
But we're not going to disclose how much we pay our general managers because we think that's confidential.
But when we look at our retention rates and our engagement rates they continue to be strong.
So we continue to feel confident that our programs are competitive and that they're doing a great job to help grow our company.
Yes I think that's important Matt that maybe a real simple way to think about it is and we've said this publicly I think there's a lot of great companies out there.
One is Fastenal.
[ph] They helped us think about how a growth program might work that they've been employing for 20-plus years.
And so when we built the program our industry historically probably rose 3% to 4%.
So we said we want to make sure we're paying a market bonus when the business is growing 3% to 4%.
So when it grows more than that the truth is we share that upside with our general managers.
I'm confident in saying that we paid the best bonuses in the industry last year.
And that's because of our philosophy to share success all the way down to the general manager in our commercial parts growth.
When it performs under that 3% to 4% our bonuses will be lower.
But it creates -- and I think you've seen it in our numbers this year progressively our third quarter was our best 2-year comp.
We saw improving trends in our DIY and I like what I see in terms of our teams' focus in terms of commercial customer visits.
I like what I see in terms of our staffing and being available for the customer.
I like what I see in terms of our customer satisfaction scores in the third quarter.
And you know what? If I could pay more bonus I would.
But if I look at the 2 years together I feel very good about how we've shared success with our team and the underlying motivations for the bonus.
You know what? I'd just as soon not talk about bonus in terms of improving our SG&amp;A but it's just a reality.
I hope we're back on 10 comps again because if they're winning our shareholder's winning and that's what good looks like.
Yes.
And I want to put one exclamation point on that.
One of the things that's embedded in our cost structure is continued investments in areas like commercial e-commerce global sourcing.
And the reason we're making those investments is to grow our business and to position our stores to grow.
Research Division</strong> Yes sure.
Just by way of follow-up so as you talk about improving cost structure relative to the industry obviously this year on a per store basis your dollars are going to be down.
As you envision the journey to 12% is that cost structure in terms of dollars from here? Or is it the sales growing into the dollars per store that you've established to date? I think it's both.
This is not a cost-cutting mission.
This is an efficiency and building a more cost competitive structure to enable growth.
And you've said it.
I mean we're making the investments I mentioned earlier to grow the business.
So growth gives you leverage.
So if we can keep existing dollars for growth that gives you -- that will put us on a great path to 12%.
And I think really the only areas that we're taking costs out of our business is in the areas furthest away from the customer areas like professional services things like occupancy and are discretionary.
Most of the other things that you saw in the third quarter were leveraged.
Research Division</strong> So as you model -- this is the last follow-up as you model out going forward should one model out some increase in expenses per store in the ordinary course assuming that you do comp commensurate with kind of that standard that you've set? Or do you actually think expenses per store can stay flat from here? I think we can -- it's probably flat to a little bit up.
Including [ph] the variables are going up Matt but I want to reinforce that Mike and team did work over a year ago where we said there are systemic places that we just need to take costs out and this isn't a situational exercise.
So they will grow with variable expenses for sure and we will be taking out costs systemically in targeted areas that quite frankly just needs to be part of a healthy organization too.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious about the commentary you made regarding a pretty wide dispersion in terms of geographic differences.
And I guess the questions are have you ever seen such a radical difference? Because it sounds like it's pretty sharp.
I know you've kind of intimated it before but it sounds like it's greater than it has been in the past.
And then what would you attribute the differences to? I guess those are the key questions here.
Yes Scot that's a great question.
Matter of fact we didn't -- to be real candid after our first quarter we started to study regionality more closely.
And when we looked at it we've now gone back a couple years.
And to be fair being east of the Mississippi was modestly beneficial last year.
So east of the Mississippi outperformed west of the Mississippi.
And again our -- nearly 90% of our stores are east of the Mississippi.
For those keeping scores that's east of Faribault.
In terms of what we see this year is that we've just seen a consistent gap principally in DIY.
And I'll give you our best thoughts on why we see that is that gap in the first quarter was over nearly 3% -- in terms of total it was nearly 3%.
In this quarter it was nearly 2.5% in total.
But DIY is the driver honestly.
In this quarter alone it was nearly 360 basis points.
And when I look back part of it may be that the east in terms of deferred maintenance has been keeping up.
And the west looks like it has just surged in terms of performance this year.
So as we look out into next year I said in my comments that I think like weather those things should even out over time and we're just going through a cycle right now that some of the deferred maintenance spend in the East has been more consistent is our best hypothesis.
In the West it looks like it might be catching up a little bit.
But we wouldn't expect that type of gap again principally in DIY to continue beyond the fourth quarter of this year.
So that's what we can see.
And that's again using industry data that we can see an MPD and that captures without Wal-Mart virtually all the big players in the industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> And have you ever seen this kind of diversion before Darren? Not east to west.
I think If you go back to '09 we do see a gap that favored the East just looking at it by about 200 basis points in the fourth quarter of '09.
And then as I look at last year the gaps -- you know what if it was a 50-basis point gap where East benefited over the course of the entire year in DIY that was about it.
But that's what we can see.
And like I said we only started studying it as we got through the first quarter of this year.
But it's helping us better understand because we just don't think you'd fall off.
You're not that good and fall off that quickly and we know in the first quarter that some of our own moves in terms of DLs that we've talked about increases in hubs took some of our focus off the ball.
But as we look at it now what we can see is the stabilizing of our DIY trends and I can virtually explain the entire gap now through regionality.
And our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to just follow up a little bit on the DIY segment.
I know Mike closed his remarks on talking about investment and commercial and global sourcing and e-commerce and I want to understand a little bit more on the DIY on the east of the Mississippi.
Do you think you are performing in line better or worse than your competitors? And let's assume that the DIY side of the business is just at a point where it doesn't reaccelerate here how do you as a company with 65% of your business go out and say "You know what we're going to lead with commercial but DIY is important.
Here's what we're going to do now to take share and to reaccelerate this side of the business." Yes.
So Tony maybe I'll start and then I'll turn it over to Charles.
We want to be clear.
We see -- the reason we talk about commercial is because the market is bigger and we are underpenetrated in terms of we've got 5% share and we see a tremendous growth curve around that for our company.
2/3 of our business is our retail business and is extremely important to us extremely important to us.
And we -- one of the reasons -- so Darren can explain the regionality.
That just gives us comfort because you look at the comps and just go why is that? Because we haven't seen that kind of regionality and we want to compare our comps and making sure that's not something that we're doing.
One of the things though that we know can help our DIY comps is number of stores and opening up stores.
So over the last couple of years with our focus on commercial with closing stores like we did in 2009 we've been out-stored a little bit.
And so we're going to I guess get focused on store growth.
So that's a driver.
The other driver is our customer-driven labor model.
We're making investments in that to match up our customers so we're making investments there.
That will help our retail business.
This year we did more advertising and that's an important dimension and Charles can talk a little bit about how that impacts our products and why we do that.
Also our e-commerce investments.
That's targeted directly at our retail business or a big chunk of it is targeted at our retail business.
And then our product strategies.
So we've had some real good success in terms of our battery market share for some of the things that we are doing including the fact that we install batteries for customers.
So I want to -- I don't want you to get the impression that our retail business -- it's a big focus for us and it's an important focus for us.
Charles? Yes Tony.
Nice to talk to you again.
So I think there are a couple of areas.
We talked about our investments in global sourcing and where we're seeing our expansion and our private brands and the value propositions that we're driving with those brands.
Clearly you and I talked out in Vegas about some of the moves the industry is seeing from premium and to mid-tier brands.
And our private label is absolutely helping us in our DIY space look -- from a competitive set.
Around our marketing we're looking at what do our core customers react to and we've been doing a lot of different tests and controls to see how we position ourselves with our radio spend for next year and focus on traffic generation into our stores.
And we've been collaborating a lot with our field leadership team with Carl around our base execution in our stores and executing our OSPs and our marketing positioning for each period.
So I think there are multiple levels of where we're making investments in the business.
So global sourcing where we're looking at our core execution in the business.
And we're looking at our core value proposition around Service is our best part.
And as Mike talked about our battery market share growth of taking care of customers at our battery business and our customers recognizing that our teams in the field are doing an exemplary job and it's being paid off in market share growth.
So I think there are opportunities for us to continue to develop our DIY customer base and grow our customer base.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a quick follow-up.
When you talk about incentive comp and you talk about participation on the upside and you've done a great job on the commercial side of the business is the employee or the store manager compensated equally with respect to DIY sales as well as commercial sales? Or are there different metrics used to compensate? No.
We use the same.
And you remember we've said this many times we're looking to build an integrated service model and we treat the dollars the same.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Darren there's a growing divergence in gross margin rates between Advance -- compared to AutoZone and O'Reilly suggesting that the pressures at Advance are not really related to changes in competitive behavior in the market.
It appears to be more or less company specific.
Do you think that's primarily the fact that inventories are heavier than they should be that increase will see opportunities for shrink? It increases the cost of handling the inventory increases the cost of shipping the inventory I mean are those the primary drivers of this lower gross margin rate that we're currently seeing? Yes.
Dan that's a fair question.
So when others grow in the quarter we decline what's creating the diversion.
So I would say we -- as we put in our press release things that are in our control are shrinked.
And when I reflect back on the first quarter and our drive to grow our inventory -- so we grew them quite rapidly.
And I think as we've said before we are near capacity in some of our distribution centers so we had to do some unique things in order to manage through that flow of inventory coming off of nearly a 10 comp in the fourth quarter of last year.
And we had a leadership change all the way down the field and shrink is something that's owned throughout an the enterprise and I would say that some of that is on us.
And we have driven our shrink down based on our NRF data to just about the best in the industry.
So we've lost some ground on a very good place because shrink was a very important part of us growing our gross margin in a systemic way and as we said using outside auditors to look at the whole deal.
And we've all been in this business long enough that shrink doesn't cure itself in a quarter but I am confident of the team in terms of the shrink piece is working itself out.
Fuel costs we're all experiencing fuel costs.
Ours get a little exaggerated given the number of hubs we put in.
So when we put in hubs we put in additional in-market delivery which causes a little bit more of a year-over-year headwind given our what is it 57 new hubs this year too in terms of what we are experiencing.
And as it relates to inflation and LIFO -- I don't want to get into a LIFO conversation but inflation is going to affect our company.
It's going to affect everybody.
How that processes through the accounting and stuff will be different timing for different companies at different points in time.
But when I look at the underlying parts of our business in terms of the structural things that drive our margins and as we look forward to global sourcing as Kevin said many times that will continue to be -- in terms of a tailwind for us.
Remington is something that we're going to open in the second quarter of next year.
That's I think a unique headwind for us in the industry.
And when you get down to the actual core of it I think Mike said this in our comments that we're going to actually start to see those declines in margins moderate as we go into the fourth quarter of this year.
Did I miss anything Kevin or Mike? I guess the only thing I would add Dan at the highest level and we get this question a lot we are delighted with the improvements we've made over the last 3 years under Kevin and Charles' leadership from areas -- the structural drivers like global sourcing supply chain availability and merchandising capabilities.
And we're comfortable that our margin rate isn't going to be in that 50% range.
And this year we said there's going to be a little bit of headwinds because of some of the things Darren talked about and then we said to get to 12% we'll probably see some modest upside from that as well.
But we're comfortable in that 50% range longer term.
Short term there's going to be a little bit of headwinds this year as we said and we'll be modestly down from that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Mike just as a follow-up in your commentary did you disclose how much of the 254 basis points of SG&amp;A leverage was derived from lower bonuses compared to store labor scheduling which might be a more sustainable source of expense cuts? No we didn't.
We didn't do that but we -- one of the largest components was our incentive comp the variable nature.
But over 50% was productivity and some of the cost work we did.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So over 50% of the 250 bp leverage is the sustainable sources of expense? Yes for the productivity costs those things.
Our final question today is from Alan Rifkin with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question for Mike and then I have a follow-up.
So Mike your CapEx year-over-year has gone up about $60 million despite about 40 fewer stores open which would imply that a greater investment is certainly going towards the supply chain and hubs.
When do you think that incremental investment may subside a little bit? Will we see a little of that in 2012? We still expect that we're going to have supply chain investments in 2012.
I think we've got a multiyear supply chain strategy that I'll have Kevin kind of comment on.
And we want to continue to invest in the business.
What we said this year is our capital this year will be up roughly $100 million more than last year $75 million to $100 million primarily driven by our supply chain investments.
You remember we're building a new DC that goes into place in the first half of next year.
And more importantly we're putting a new WMS system in that's going to transform our supply chain give us supply chain efficiency down the road.
But it's multiyear.
Our supply chain investments will be multiyear.
Yes the only thing I would add is you can account for our entire capital budget between new stores supply chain and IT.
And I think IT will as a percent of the capital budget will hit its peak year next year and moderate in the years ahead.
I think the real estate component of it will expand as we move beyond the current pace of MSOs.
And you are likely to see a similar component for supply chain.
As Mike says we go through the conversion over the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one follow-up for Darren if I may.
This isn't the first time that you've spoken about the disparity between the eastern and western portion of the United States.
With only 10% of the current store base west of the Mississippi and in your quest to continue to grow as a growth company when might we see a more concerted effort to having an increase in new-store openings west of the Mississippi which may balance out some of the geographic effects that you've spoken about? Yes.
Now that's a -- it won't -- when we look at it Alan as we look across our current geography I would think about our growth in terms of what we can see right now our organic growth between AAP and AI.
Then we'll continue to maintain our focus and we have been pushing -- we have been edging west principally in our Denver markets a little bit in our Texas markets.
But I must tell you what we continue to see and we saw this with our expansion of AI last year and we've seen this in our core markets like Chicago there's just still so much opportunity to fill out some of the core markets our northeastern market.
And when we're doing it in terms of where we have strength we're able to leverage the team in terms of our field teams in terms of getting the right people to staff those stores while we'll continue to make those investments to the West.
But I would say as I look into next year given what I know right now that it's more likely that we'll continue to edge west as we go into next year for sure.
But as Kevin said we're spending time right now thinking about -- we know one of the things that's challenging our DIY share right now is that 83% of customers choose a DIY location based on convenience.
And so when our store growth rubbed at a rate less than our competitors almost by definition you're going to give up a little share.
So internally we're spending time as we look at the back half of 2012 and 2013 in terms of upping those store counts both in terms of AI and AAP because we like how those models work together in a market.
And we think it allows us to look at new geographies differently too in terms of how we might go into it.
Thank you and this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our team -- to our audience for participating in our third quarter conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements.
We intend to be covered and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our first quarter earnings release is scheduled for Thursday May 17 2012 before market opens.
And our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday May 17 2012.
To be notified of future dates of earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
First I'd like to thank our 52 000 Team Members for their hard work and congratulate them on an outstanding performance in the fourth quarter and for fiscal 2011.
The team's focus and dedication enabled us to achieve new record levels of performance this year.
Our continued investment in service and availability translated into industry-leading service experience as measured by NPD while improving the efficiency of our operations.
Together these investments resulted in record profitability as reflected in our 90 basis point improvement in our operating income rate which reached an all-time high of 10.8%.
We remain on track to achieve our goal of 12%.
Our improved operating performance enabled our full year earnings per share to grow 29.4% to $5.11 while our return on invested capital reached a record 19.5%.
Mike will provide more specific details on the fourth quarter and our full year results in a few minutes as well as the outlook for 2012.
Our heritage is grounded in our commitment to service and is reflected in our promise "Service is our best part." Just as important our values inspire serve and grow are critical to how we deliver on our promise on a consistent basis.
Together our team's dedication to our promise and values resulted in record levels of customer satisfaction Team Member engagement and financial returns in 2011.
Operationally we set new standards of achievement in delivery speed reliability inventory on hand and e-commerce sales to name a few.
Finally we finished the year slightly below double-digit comps in our Commercial business and saw sequential improvements in DIY throughout 2011.
We entered 2011 by simplifying our strategies to service leadership and superior availability.
Service leadership in simple terms is to help customers buy through delivering on customer expectations which requires a relentless focus on service basics and behaviors.
We made material investments in our district leadership team the measurement of commercial delivery speed and reliability and our service leadership assessments.
Ultimately our goal is to maximize the value of each customer engagement whether it's when a customer walks into one of our stores calls us or clicks on our website.
Superior availability is focused on building an industry-leading supply chain through our efforts to build out our hub network and implement our new warehouse management system.
This new warehouse management system is a critical element of our state-of-the-art distribution center set to open in the fall of 2012.
Kevin Freeland will provide you with more insights on our progress under our superior availability strategy shortly.
I am pleased with the strategic progress we made as well as our financial results that accelerated throughout the year.
Specifically we were able to generate a 2.9% comp store sales gain during our fourth quarter and a 2.2% for the fiscal year.
Overall our business continues to be impacted by regionality but was less so in the fourth quarter.
Our performance for the year was driven by solid results in both our failure and maintenance products.
In our fourth quarter we saw positive growth in both DIY and Commercial.
In 2011 Commercial comps were strong giving us near double-digit comps for 4 years in a row.
We slowed the pace of our Commercial weighs in 2011 to focus on and achieve better execution which enabled us to better manage our integrated service model.
We are delighted by our ability to turn the tide in DIY despite a very tough comparison through improved execution and increased average ticket.
Overall we continue to outperform the market and gain significant market share in our rapidly growing Commercial business which represented 37.2% of our total sales in the fourth quarter versus 35.1% during the fourth quarter last year.
Additionally we are pleased with our improved top line and bottom line performance of our commercially focused Autoparts International business.
AI grew to nearly $295 million in sales with an 8.6% comp store sales increase while increasing profits nearly 3x to $12.3 million for the year.
We continue to see significant potential to grow our Commercial business and to gain market share.
By contrast we underperformed the industry and our expectations for DIY market share in 2011.
Our team is focused on the basics of execution merchandising and marketing to build on our Q4 gains in DIY.
We are pleased with both our DIY and Commercial sales trends as we start 2012.
A special highlight is our continued effort to serve the communities in which we operate.
This is reflected in our work to increase awareness and seek a cure for juvenile diabetes.
Our team once again continued our strong efforts in support of JDRF by raising roughly $4 million this year.
Our fundraising total since 1994 is now over $30 million and we continue to be JDRF's #1 corporate partner.
Looking to 2012 and beyond we continue to see strong structural elements of our industry including the increasing average age of vehicles which is nearly 11 years with 2/3 of those cars on the road being over 7 years old.
With over 240 million cars in the U.S.
this continues to be a major driver of the long-term growth and stability of the industry.
Our economy continues to be tempered with high unemployment and low consumer confidence.
As a result we expect to see an economy of necessity where consumers will continue to favor and seek value through local garages or performing needed repairs themselves.
In the shorter term and with stabilization of gas prices we expect the industry in 2012 to perform comparably to 2011.
However increases in gas prices at the pump will have a negative impact on the growth potential of the industry as evidenced in 2011.
As we start a new year we remain focused on service leadership and superior availability and the elements that support our strategies.
Our success will be determined by our ability to run the business with excellence which is based upon providing outstanding service growing DIY and accelerating Commercial effectively managing our inventory levels continuing to increase the effectiveness of our Team Member training and development while allowing us to retain hire and ignite the performance of our outstanding Team Members.
In 2012 our key organizational priorities include the continued focus on improving our in-market availability through the continued expansion of our hub network and the opening of our new DC during the back half of the year.
We continue to enhance our e-commerce offerings in order to increase the retention and acquisition of larger size commercial customers.
We will continue our efforts to increase the penetration of B2B which has been very well received by our commercial customers.
Finally we will work to maximize our return on every customer visit by providing the service they want and expect from every Team Member.
In closing I'd like to acknowledge our team's everyday heroics simply serving their customers better than anyone else.
These acts of heroism happen every day in one of our stores such as Millsboro Delaware where TJ Marshlack [ph] and Thomas Lacasse [ph] deliver on our promise despite the cold temperatures by installing a battery for a mom and her young son and testing the car's charging system to ensure the job was done right and we gained a customer for life; or in Topeka Kansas where General Manager Chris Anders takes great pride in being available for our customers connects with them in a meaningful way by taking them from an ordinary transaction and turning it into a memorable interaction.
Thank you to all of our everyday heroes as your acts of heroism are what makes Advance a great place to work and will continue to drive our success way into the future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer.
Thanks Darren and good morning.
I'd also like to congratulate the team for a strong fourth quarter and year.
I'll take a moment to highlight a few of our accomplishments during the quarter as well as update you on our initiatives to support superior availability strategy and new store growth.
Over the course of the year we worked to increase the breadth and depth of our in-market product assortment and availability through our efforts to increase the number of hubs in the marketplace as well as providing delivery capabilities from strategically positioned hubs.
As a result we've worked aggressively to add our number of hub stores in 2011 which now sits at 294 or an increase of 68 since Q4 of 2010.
We upgraded the inventory in 47 stores for the quarter and 814 stores for the year.
As a direct result of our hub strategy and our inventory upgrades our in-stock levels were up nearly 90 basis points over last year and are at a record high.
Despite our start to 2011 when our inventory levels increased 21% during the first quarter our inventory levels at the end of the year were up only 9.6% versus the prior year.
This is a great accomplishment and I want to congratulate our inventory team as their focus on disciplined inventory management allowed us to exceed our goals by sequentially decelerating the rate of growth each quarter while continuing to build our -- build on our already high level of customer perception of availability.
Additionally we continued to expand our supply chain financing program and have reduced our owned inventory per store by 29.8% with our total owned inventory decreasing $150 million versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Our work in this space has led to an increase in our AP ratio of nearly 1 000 basis points versus the fourth quarter last year and now stands at 80.9%.
We continue to be encouraged by our progress and will continue to work to expand our AP ratio in the future.
Turning to gross profit.
Our gross profit declined 39 basis points to 49% versus the fourth quarter of the previous year.
This anticipated decline continues to be impacted by increased supply chain costs driven by our investments in hub stores and increased deliveries.
Additionally our gross profit decline was impacted by unfavorable shrink.
However we continue to make great strides with respect to our shrink management.
Our shrink performance has improved since second quarter and we anticipate this headwind will subside in the back half of 2012.
Partially offsetting those headwinds in 2011 were continued improvements in DC productivity and continued benefits from our merchandising global sourcing and pricing capabilities.
While gross margin declined 24 basis points in 2011 it increased 312 basis points over the last 4 years.
Our new Remington Indiana DC will begin receiving product in the second quarter of 2012 and is anticipated to begin shipping product the following quarter.
Remington will provide us with much needed capacity and will be by far the most advanced DC within our supply chain.
Once this new DC is up and running we'll be able to benefit from additional productivity improvements and continue to increase our overall availability.
We continue to reach new customers and grow sales through successful expansion of our e-commerce capabilities and through new store openings.
During the fourth quarter we opened 19 stores closed 1 Advance store and closed 1 Autopart International store.
For fiscal 2011 we opened 95 Advance stores 9 Autopart International stores closed 4 Advance stores and 1 Autopart International store.
As of December 31 2011 the company's total store count was 3 662 including 202 Autopart International stores.
Overall our fourth quarter as well as 2011 was very successful for our team and I'm thrilled by the strategic and financial progress we've made as we focus on providing superior availability.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated Team Members for their contribution to the strong financial outcomes we delivered in our fourth quarter to close out another very solid year.
I plan to cover the following 3 topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights from our fourth quarter of 2011; two put our fourth quarter results into context with both our full year performance and the key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three provide you with our annual financial outlook for 2012.
Looking at our fourth quarter we are pleased with our strong end of the year with earnings per diluted share increasing 57.9% to $0.90 per share versus $0.57 for the prior year.
For all of 2011 our earnings per share increased 29.4% to $5.11 on top of a 31.7% EPS increase in 2010.
Our comp store sales increased 2.9% during the fourth quarter which was on top of an 8.9% comp increase during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 representing an 11.8% 2-year comp store sales increase.
We are very pleased with this result as it marks our strongest comp performance for the year despite challenging comparisons.
For the year our comp store sales increased 2.2% with total sales increasing 4.1% to nearly $6.2 billion.
As Kevin mentioned our gross profit rate in the fourth quarter was 49% versus 49.4% in the fourth quarter 2010 or a decrease of 39 basis points.
This was in line with our expectations.
The decline versus prior year was primarily driven by increased supply chain investments in hubs and slightly higher shrink expense.
For the year our gross profit rate decreased 24 basis points to 49.7% which was in line with our previous outlook and expectations.
Turning to our cost structure.
Our SG&amp;A rate was 40.6% during the fourth quarter versus 42.8% during the fourth quarter of 2010.
This 221 basis point decrease was driven by productivity improvements from the company's variable customer-driven labor model which includes the anniversary of investment rollout expenses reduced incentive compensation as a result of the company's lower comp sales growth versus the fourth quarter of 2010 occupancy cost leverage and a significant decrease in overall support costs.
The expense reductions were partially offset by continued strategic investments in areas such as commercial availability and e-commerce.
As a result of our cost management efforts and a continued commitment to building a more competitive cost structure our SG&amp;A per store decreased 2.2% in 2011 to $666 000 per store.
As a direct result of our team's execution and commitment to achieve both top line growth and improve our cost structure our operating income increased 33.3% versus fourth quarter of 2010 while our operating income rate increased 182 basis points to 8.4%.
Our full year operating income increased 13.6% versus fiscal 2010 to $664.6 million.
Our operating income rate increased to a record 10.8% of sales in fiscal 2011 which represents a 90-basis-point increase which was on top of a 100-basis-point increase in 2010.
We are delighted by these results and pleased with our team's progress in growing our business and profitability.
Free cash flow was a record $507.2 million which represents a $40.9 million increase over last year.
This increase was primarily due to our strong growth in net income and reduced owned inventory.
As Kevin mentioned our reduction in owned inventory was driven by our efforts to increase our AP to inventory ratio which is now at 80.9% up nearly 1 000 basis points from 71% in 2010 and our work to decelerate the pace of growth of our overall inventory levels which grew 9.6% for the year.
These improvements to our free cash flow were partially offset by our increased capital spending which was up $90.6 million driven by our strategic investments in supply chain to improve our efficiencies to complete our Remington DC and investments in our e-commerce business.
At the end of Q4 we had $416 million of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2x which is below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
Last month we obtained long-term funding through our $300 million unsecured senior notes offering which will be used to pay off short-term debt and for other general corporate purposes.
This was part of our capital structure plan to continue to improve our financial foundation by securing longer term funding at favorable terms which will help fund our future growth.
With respect to share repurchase program we repurchased approximately 9.9 million shares of stock for $609.6 million at an average price of $61.51 per share during fiscal 2011.
These repurchases continue to reflect our confidence in the company's ability to grow profitably and to create long-term shareholder value.
Strategically we continue to position the company for growth and improved profitability.
Our performance in our fourth quarter and 2011 demonstrates we are on the right path and reinforces our commitment to accelerate growth improve profitability and drive shareholder value.
We continue to measure our performance based on these 3 dimensions.
Our commitment to grow our business is reflected by our fourth consecutive year of strong Commercial sales growth which continues to drive record sales per store.
Over the past 4 years our sales per store have increased $181 000 to $1.71 million driven by increased Commercial sales per program which has grown 45% over the same period.
Our ability to grow profitably is marked by our 190-basis-point improvement in operating income rate in the past 2 years driven by the structural improvements we had made to our gross profit in the areas such as parts availability inventory management and new capability such as global sourcing and e-commerce and through the improvements we have made in our cost structure.
We continue to be on pace to achieve 12% operating margins.
Turning to shareholder value.
We continue to maintain our disciplined approach in managing our balance sheet and capital structure as reflected in our 19.5% return on invested capital which increased 200 basis points versus 2010 and 580 basis points over the past 4 years.
The increase in ROIC and the 116% increase in our free cash flow over the past 4 years were primarily due to our improved operating performance as well as our continued efforts to reduce our owned inventory.
Turning to 2012.
We believe it will be another strong year given the solid industry fundamentals Darren mentioned and we look to build on our 2011 momentum with our relentless focus on service to meet our customers' needs and continued investments in commercial availability and e-commerce.
We estimate our 2012 EPS will be $5.55 to $5.75 per share.
This annual outlook reflects a weighted average share count of approximately 74 million outstanding diluted shares and includes additional interest expense from our recent unsecured notes issuance.
Now I'd like to provide you with the key financial assumptions implied in our annual financial outlook.
In 2012 we anticipate new store openings for both Advance and Autopart International brands to be approximately 120 to 130 stores.
Service leadership and superior availability will fuel continued sales per store growth.
We expect comp sales to grow low- to mid-single digits driven by continued growth in Commercial.
We expect a modest improvement in our gross profit rate as we continue to reap the benefits of our previous investments our focus on excellence in terms of inventory and shrink management and the anniversary of supply chain efficiencies.
Partially offsetting these margin benefits are headwinds associated with the ramp up of our new Remington DC that will come online during our third quarter of fiscal 2012 our new warehouse management system and the increased mix of Commercial sales.
Turning to our cost structure.
We continue to see opportunities to increase our productivity reduce the variability of our store performance and reduce support costs furthest away from the customer.
We expect to continue the progress we made in 2011.
However our focus on growth will continue to require us to make investments in areas such as commercial supply chain global sourcing and e-commerce.
Based on our comp sales outlook our incentive compensation may be leveraged as a result of slightly higher sales and year-over-year growth in 2012.
All in our strategic investments combined with more normalized incentive compensation will be partially offset through our continued efforts to improve our cost structure and simplify our operations.
We anticipate that our SG&amp;A per store will increase in the low-single digits.
Turning to capital expenditures.
We expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $275 million to $300 million which is slightly higher than 2011 driven by new store development supply chain investments and store systems.
We expect free cash flow to be a minimum of $400 million driven by areas such as increased net income and continued improvements to working capital partially offset by higher capital expenditures.
We anticipate the phasing of our quarterly operating profit will be somewhat different than our historical performance.
We expect that our operating income growth will be the strongest during our first quarter and will be more constrained for the balance of fiscal 2012.
This is driven by our first quarter comparisons versus the very weak start in fiscal 2011; the pacing and timing of our strategic investments in 2012 which are more focused in our second and third quarters; and the anniversary of expense savings from 2011 which started in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and accelerated throughout 2011.
In closing we remain focused on our 2 strategies of service leadership and superior availability and continuing to generate long-term growth profits and shareholder value.
Our strategic investments relentless focus on service and operational excellence are key ingredients to achieving these.
We want to thank our talented Team Members for the meaningful impacts they made in 2011 and look forward to an exciting 2012.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Darren I was going to ask you if you thought the Golden Eagles will win the BIG EAST Tournament before you get to your 12% operating income.
But that's probably not a fair question so I'll phrase it differently...
I think they're both in good shape.
Research Division</strong> When we say the goal of '12 that's -- given the guidance you're not looking at that for this year right? That's something that you're looking a couple years out? Yes.
Gary it's Mike.
Yes that's right.
We haven't changed our view on that.
And we've said over the next few years we're going to get to 12%.
And we made great progress in 2011 and we continue to be on track to achieve that goal.
Research Division</strong> Now I'll ask that question.
Gross margin was stronger than we expected this quarter like it was down 39 but it'd come off down 80.
What -- you mentioned also higher shrink.
Could you discuss what were the components of the stronger gross margin and what gives you the confidence? Because you mentioned you expect it up next year as well.
Yes.
Gary it's Mike.
Maybe I'll give you the components and then Kevin can give you some of the insights.
The 2 big drivers were supply chain and  the story hasn't changed there as we've been putting in more hubs as part of our strategy to improve our market availability.
A little bit higher gasoline prices and investments we'll be making in our new DC and our WMS system.
So that was the biggest part of the drain.
And then our shrink year-over-year was down but it was down less of a level than it's been in Q3 and Q2.
So we're really pleased with the progress we're making -- that the Team Members are making on our shrink.
But that was less of a component but those were the 2 components.
Yes Gary this is Kevin.
The other elements essentially all netted to an even number.
We've been aggressively ensuring that we're staying price competitive with our key competitors continuing to work to lower cost of acquisition of product through category management and global sourcing.
As Mike said in his prepared statements it appears to us as though the shrink headwinds will abate as we get into the back half of next year.
But the other elements that sit underneath gross margin we expect to continue to march ahead.
Our next question is from Tony Cristello with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about sort of your targeted share repurchase how you're going to manage your leverage.
I mean down to 2x which is certainly below your target and your guidance reflects no share repurchase.
Is there something we should consider as we look out for the balance of this year? Or is all systems sort of go but you're just going to be targeting it when it's most beneficial to you? It's Mike.
First of all we're really pleased with what we did last year.
We bought about 12% of the company back on the heels of well 13.6% the year before that in 2010.
Our philosophy on share buyback hasn't changed.
I think we've bought back about 40% of the company since 2004 and we continue to talk about being opportunistic.
And that really is our confidence in our ability to continue to create long-term value.
So we'll continue to be opportunistic.
We have confidence in our ability to continue to grow that value and our historical performance especially when you look at things like our top line growth our bottom line growth and our returns our ROIC that's up over 500 basis points over the last 4 years.
And then the other -- some other pieces is obviously maintaining our leverage ratio under our maximum 2.5x is important to us.
Year-over-year we kept that thing at 2% and we were at 2% -- sorry we were at 2x in 2011.
And then I think the most important thing for us is share buyback is one available use of our capital.
Our first options are always how do we grow the business and looking at options on how we grow the business.
So over the last number of years we put money into commercial.
We put money into e-commerce and we've been very pleased with the returns we've gotten.
Kevin's talked extensively about supply chain and the opportunities we have there our new Remington DC our new WMS.
And I think Kevin said it we're going to have one of the most automated supply chains.
And we'll have an opportunity to see what that does and the efficiencies that it gives.
So the first choice is obviously to look at where we put our capital to grow our business.
And if there's other little tuck-in acquisitions and things like that kind of second.
And then third a great way to pay back our shareholders.
So our philosophy hasn't changed.
And I'll just remind you we had an open to buy of 300 million.
We have 200 million left on that going into the quarter.
Yes Tony.
Just maybe to build on that Mike.
To answer your question directly Tony each year we just make a deliberate decision not to include stock buyback in our guidance.
And that hasn't changed from prior years either.
And I think in a word we haven't changed our philosophy and our approach.
We do plan to be opportunistic.
And that opportunistic -- you've been watching us for a long long time.
As Mike said we've bought back $2 billion of stock since 2004 at about an average price of $45.
So we feel pretty good about that strategy and don't see really any need to change it.
And the good news is we're well below our targeted leverage ratio.
So that gives us a lot of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe if I can just have the follow-up on sort of prioritizing growth.
And it seems like as we moved through the phases of 2011 you sort of pulled back on some initiatives and were focused on delivering profitability and based on where sales trends were.
And it seems like you've seen a little bit maybe more of an acceleration of investment and I'm just trying to understand how much of that was intentional how much of it was sort of what wasn't spent last year sort of was pushed into this year.
And what's sort of the timing of this next phase of investment? When I think about last year a couple of things.
We got out of the first quarter and admittedly we did not perform the way we thought and had hoped to perform.
And quite frankly the trends were just very different than when we started the year.
And to your point historically we go into the year with heavy heavy investment in the first quarter.
I think in Mike's prepared comments we're investing in the first quarter this year but not at the same levels that we have in historical years.
And that phasing has moved I would say to be more evenly spread throughout the year.
Because one of our learnings last year and I think we've talked about this every conference call is that the teams can absorb so much change in a period of time.
And so what we've tried to do this year is even that out.
And you're right last year I would say -- did we pull back on some investment in the second third and the fourth quarter? Yes we did a little bit but it was really in the greater good of getting the process right and allowing the teams to absorb and execute.
And you can see that playing out -- from my vantage point you can see it playing out in the fourth quarter in particular that we were able to turn the tide on DIY still grow the Commercial business at rates that we're happy with and improve our margins improve our shrink and all those things that come with that consistency of running the business.
And we've gone into this year recognizing that's a big value to us and we're spreading it out.
So as Mike said our first quarter is a quarter that quite frankly we feel really good about.
And we tried to signal on the guidance for sure.
Second third and fourth we feel really good about but you know what it will experience more investment this year than it did a year ago just because of the lapping effect that we talked about.
And Tony just -- it's in my remarks but maybe I'll add a little color to it.
We are going to have a little bit of pacing and timing with our costs throughout the year.
So for instance we have our large GM meeting that always occurs in our first quarter.
That's going to get moved to the second quarter this year.
And advertising last year as you remember our advertising we got out of the blocks last year with some strong advertising in Q1.
That's going to be spread a little bit more evenly through the second quarter through Q4.
So those are a couple of examples.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start out by asking about traffic and ticket trends particularly for DIY but for the business more broadly as well.
Yes.
So I don't know that there's any new news Matt in terms of traffic and ticket trends versus Q2 Q3 Q4 for us this year.
Most of the growth if not all the growth in DIY has come from larger ticket.
Though we have seen as you would expect from the first quarter of the year last year through the fourth quarter our traffic's improved.
But we have been -- as Mike alluded to we did turn to some more traffic-driving marketing as we got into the year last year versus brand advertising which we did heavy in the first quarter of last year.
So there's no new news in terms of what those trends look like.
As we look to this next year one of the things we think about is we know regionality was a drag on our business in 2011.
That regionality we felt obviously in the traffic.
And if you think about it that just meant there was probably more deferred maintenance.
And so if we're slightly optimistic -- we're slightly optimistic around the fact that we'll see a little better traffic trends this year.
And we believe that those ticket trends will continue as we get into 2012 too.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then as you think about Commercial I guess in the context of it turned out to be a pretty good year Commercial was a bit lower than double digit.
And as you think about a sustainable growth rate for Commercial both based on the market and based on your willingness to invest how should we think about the next couple of years for that space? Yes.
We haven't changed our view on that either Matt.
We still see that as a double-digit comp grower for us.
I would say that if I back up we did as I talked about in Tony's question we did taper off some of our commercial investments last year in lieu of focusing on the execution.
So as we come into this year you'll experience us -- we've got still more wave markets to do and we've built those into our plans.
But we've built them in a way that we're spreading them across the year this year.
And we think and we know from experience that those tend to certainly boost our comps and have a multi-quarter effect.
So we don't have a different view either structurally about the commercial market.
That seems to be as strong as it's been over the last several years.
And this year we must continue that investment pattern in our wave markets our drivers and our delivery speed things that we're focused on.
Our next question is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the traffic and ticket trends just to be clear.
As I back out it looks like DIY was still around a negative 1.
But it's fair to say it improved a couple of hundred bps through the year.
So we can still assume that the traffic was down in DIY a couple percent.
Is that my math? Yes Greg fourth quarter or for the year? Research Division</strong> For the fourth quarter.
Yes traffic was down.
Research Division</strong> And on gross margin in terms of the outlook you guys provided getting up a little bit how important is getting the DC up and running and getting the inventory built for that to helping the gross margin start to grow again? And how should we think about that in terms of continuing to extend the payables which obviously has been such a great job to help free cash flow? Yes Greg this is Kevin.
Essentially the investments that we're making to bring Remington online are being offset this year through some efficiency programs that we launched that are literally taking effect in the first quarter.
So that should be relatively neutral in the overall picture.
Mike in his comments mentioned that we expect the shrink to abate across the year and no longer be essentially a topic in the back half of this year.
We're continuing to expand the global sourcing program.
And while it was incredible percentage numbers early on it is a substantial base at this point.
And we're putting large percentages on top of large dollars.
So that will continue to fuel the numbers.
In terms of the supply chain financing I would just ask you to look back at the last 3 years of how that program has unfolded.
It is a day-by-day negotiation-by-negotiation process that is a multi-year program.
We're certainly proud of how that has played out and proud of the teams that are working on that.
We're also proud of the speed at which we've deployed it.
Another competitor in our space certainly ahead of us but it took them over a decade to accomplish what they were doing as they were blazing a trail so to speak.
But our plans would see improvements in that area for this year and likely beyond.
Research Division</strong> So at the end of this year 2012 would you expect inventory to grow at a similar rate to what it did in 2011? Much of the investments that we made this past year so a substantial increase in the number of hub stores we continue to see opportunities there although we leapt ahead last year did far more than we had historically done.
Our plans for this year would look more similar to what you would have seen prior to 2011.
So our inventory plans for the year would not -- which in total outgrew the cost of goods sold.
As we go into next year or as we go into the balance of this year it would be not likely that we would continue to aggregate inventory at that same rate but instead would be a more modest growth in inventory.
The intersection of that with improved supply chain financing we would expect to see similar cash flow going back to the company through improvements of reducing owned inventory.
Our next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Last year at this time your sales were really hurt by geography and timing in the calendar given really heavy storms in January and April.
So is it fair to say that that's working in your favor this year and perhaps comps have accelerated? And then related to that can you talk about how the regionality changed sequentially in terms of the drag 3Q to 4Q? Yes.
I can do this.
So as we -- I said in our prepared remarks Chris that both DIY and Commercial are off to a good start this year.
And certainly -- I mean we've all been doing this long enough to know that last year and we said this last year January was tough in terms of the weather and particularly in the Northeast.
So there's no doubt that that's in there.
The way I think about it is that over the course of the year I always say this weather evens out.
So to your comments about regionality with Q3 to Q4 my recollection is that Q3 regionality was 300 basis points.
This Q4 was probably closer 100 basis points.
Unfortunately this is probably the last time we'll be able to talk about it because the NPD data related to that is going away.
We see a high value in that.
Others see it differently.
So we're done.
I think this is the last time we'll be able to talk about that.
Research Division</strong> That's very funny.
And then as you think about -- surprise.
As you think about the DIY acceleration and what happened with traffic and ticket was the acceleration mainly a function of your ability to pass price through that you were holding back on in prior quarters that you mentioned? And was there any relationship between that and the gross margin trend looking better sequentially? Yes.
This is Kevin.
We've had a similar approach to pricing both on the DIY and the Commercial side that we built in the first few years that we came together as a team.
It's a very simple concept which is we benchmark our prices at a very detailed level DIY versus Commercial right down to the street address.
And it is critical that we remain competitive and that hasn't changed for years.
That all said there are certain items in the assortment that appear inelastic.
And those are areas that we look for margin enhancement.
But as we go into a head-to-head what are the key categories customers that are price shopping what are they discovering our analytics would suggest that we've been quite competitive for the last several years and maintained that way through last year.
Now one of the elements is we get a certain level of price inflation and deflation at the landed cost level predominantly driven by commodities.
Oil would be an example.
It has changed dramatically in the years we've been together as a team.
Steel would be to a lesser extent.
Those reflect in our gross margin based on our accounting practices faster than they do with some of our key competitors.
So the price that the customer sees has remained competitive and consistent.
How that actually flows through and impacts different people in our channel is -- so to Darren's point weather kind of evens out over the year and so does pricing.
But it negatively affected us on the front half of the year.
And at this stage we don't see any material movements in the moment that would be noteworthy to report in terms of an outlook.
Yes.
The other small thing to build on Kevin's point Chris in the fourth quarter we did have a weather benefit.
And what I mean by that is you could change your oil.
And so when I look at the mix now -- the other side of that is we didn't sell as much anti-freeze and some of the chemicals for cold weather.
You could change your brakes.
So when you peer into what was occurring is that mix certainly played a role in terms of the DIY improvement.
But I don't want to underestimate or undersell or underappreciate the team's execution.
I've felt in my 4 years exiting this year and entering next year that focus on execution.
We say running the business with excellence and what our field teams are doing I must say it's at an all-time high.
It really is in terms of their focus around our oil business brakes batteries the key front room categories.
And that played a huge role in it because when I look at the absolute comparisons as you pointed out the DIY comparison in our fourth quarter was about as tough as we've had all year.
And so it's not just luck or circumstance.
They've done a nice job actually bringing it all into the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> So if I were just going to summarize that that response it sounded like yes it helped gross margin sequentially but it wasn't as if the acceleration in DIY was solely price-driven ticket increase? No.
I think some of your peers would tell you that our pricing was below others in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Darren on your guidance of low- to mid-single digits for the 5% scenario to possibly come into play what would have to change? Would it be a pickup in Do-It-Yourself growth? Or could you achieve that 4% or 5% comp sales gain even if Do-It-Yourself remain flattish? Yes well I'll start one level above that Dan because that is a relatively wide range.
And I'd say what's underneath that is that -- I don't know where gas prices are going to go this year.
Is that -- if we have stability throughout the year in gas prices and depending on whose projections you read it could go to darn near $5 at some places.
Other people will tell you you know what we'll probably stay somewhere around $4.50.
So I think about the overall cloud that's out there is understanding where overall gas prices will go.
I think we saw that lessen this year.
Miles driven tend to have a lesser effect this year as we look at failure and maintenance.
Below that between -- so that overall that has a disproportionate effect on our DIY business.
I think as we -- and I think DIY whether we do 5 or above or 1 or below it's 2/3 of our business.
So your instincts are right is that the stronger we finish on DIY historically the stronger we finish on that comp.
What do I look at is store execution.
And externally what am I looking at? I'm looking at gas prices.
And I'm looking to a lesser extent at miles driven to actually think about where we'll finish in that range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that given you've reduced the amount of selling space to the front end of the store and you've taken out some of the Do-It-Yourself-oriented inventory that that type of ramp in Do-It-Yourself is possible even if gasoline prices were to stay flat or drop? Yes.
I have Charles with me.
Charles year-over-year there's not a material difference you see in what we have in terms of consumer and in terms of DIY? No.
I mean -- when we came together as a team early on we went in and looked at rationalization in our assortments and took what was unproductive and took about 18 months to take that out.
But on a year-on-year sequential basis we've expanded our assortments from better utilization of the back room space and put more inventory into our parts business to actually build our capability to serve the DIY customer not at the expense of taking away from the front room categories that they expect us to carry.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Mike just one real quick question for you.
Can you tell us why the company did not buy back any shares during the fourth quarter? I think we answered it previously.
We bought back 12% of the company and we're pleased by that.
And then we...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But that was to end that -- that ended the fourth quarter? Yes that's what I mean.
I mean we look at it over the year.
I think in the fourth quarter we did some other things around our capital structure.
We were planning for a bond offering.
We were focused on executing our business.
There's also certain blackout periods that we hit.
It's a longer period of time that we run into a little bit.
But we're pleased.
There was no -- I wouldn't read anything into it of why we didn't buy back shares.
Our final question today comes from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know you guys have touched on this but obviously SG&amp;A has been a pretty big swing factor for the last couple of quarters.
And Mike I know you tried to highlight a couple of items.
But it looks like the change that you're looking for in SG&amp;A per store is pretty sizable.
I mean we've had down 3% to 5% by my calculations the last couple of quarters.
Now we're expecting positive low-single digits.
Can you talk about what you mean in terms of normalization of compensation? And then just the sequencing.
I think Darren you actually referenced this a little bit.
Should we -- in terms of some of your expenses.
Should we actually expect flat to down SG&amp;A dollars in the first quarter followed by sizable increases in the balance of the year? So 2 questions there.
Yes so Scot great question.
So first of all the kind of the pockets that we've been taking costs from are really 3 fold.
And we started the work in 2010 and we really saw it happen in 2011 where we're seeing better productivity in areas like our labor.
So we're leveraging labor.
We're spending more -- we're spending the same dollars a little bit more actual dollars but we're getting more leverage around those labors around efficiencies and some of the excellence that Darren talked about.
Our commercial programs our commercial productivity on our commercial sales per program is up 45%.
So I think the number is $637 000 per program.
And back 3 or 4 years ago it was closer to $430 000.
So we're seeing productivity.
We're also seeing reduced variability across our chain in terms of our performance.
We're trying to variable-ize some of our fixed costs.
And then we're also taking out cost furthest away from the customer some of our discretionary our occupancy and areas like that.
The way to think about it is this.
Where we started -- we were starting from a high SG&amp;A rate.
And I think -- I'm really pleased by the team's progress of pulling costs out and better leverage.
But the other thing you saw last year is our incentive compensation.
That played a pretty big role in terms of our leverage last year because what happened is we pay on growth.
We have a very competitive program.
We share a material  more amount of our dollars and our success with our Team Members.
And just last year when you do a 2.2% comp versus an 8% comp the incentive compensation so that created a little bit of some of the SG&amp;A we picked up last year.
Also and I think Darren talked about it last year is the investments compared to historical levels were down.
So you saw the benefit of the year-over-year change with investments being a little bit I'll call it decelerated last year.
When you put that together last year we saw more leverage come out.
And you think we did a 2.2 comp and we leveraged SG&amp;A about 114 basis points.
I think last year was a repositioning year.
The way we look at it going forward now is -- and I haven't felt confident enough to say this but I feel confident saying it now.
Going forward we're probably going to leverage SG&amp;A in more of that 3% to 4% range.
So next year the dollar is going to increase.
And what we said is that next year our SG&amp;A per store is going to grow at low-single digits.
And what I'd read into that is we're going to continue our work to improve our cost structure and productivity reduce variability and taking costs out furthest away from the customer.
That's going to be offset by the investments that Darren referred to.
Because we're committed to getting to 12% operating growth.
And that is going to come in 2 ways.
We got to continue to grow the business so we need to still invest in commercial availability and areas like e-commerce and global sourcing.
So the offset to the SG&amp;A will be investments in those areas.
And we'll continue to demand the same kind of returns that we've been getting.
So that's how we think about it.
So we would anticipate that we're going to leverage in roughly that 3% to 4% range and SG&amp;A per store is going to go up in that low-single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the cadence should we actually think about kind of flattish dollars in the first quarter followed by sizable increases in the back? Scot I think you're on track.
Think about we began the process really aggressively in the second quarter of last year.
We're going to anniversary a lot of that work.
And you know how expenses work.
We'll anniversary them through the first quarter of this year.
As Mike said we'll have some unique things.
We're moving a managers' meeting that -- those aren't hundreds of thousands of dollars those are millions of dollars that go from Q1 to Q2.
We've spread out the investments.
We still have investments in Q1 but we're trying to as I said earlier even those out throughout the year so the team can absorb them.
We're upping our store count this year.
That'll add a little bit more to our expense in terms of the flow principally in the back half of the year.
And that's what we tried to clearly articulate in our prepared comments as well.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Joshua Moore for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy.
And thanks to our audience who participated in our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our second quarter earnings release is scheduled for August 9 2012 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday August 9 2012.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for one year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
First I'd like to thank our 54 000 Team Members for their hard work and congratulate them on their performance during the first quarter.
The consistent focus on service leadership and superior availability and our Team Members' commitment to excellence resulted in a good start to 2012.
The combination of solid comparable store sales growth and expense management allowed us to grow our operating profits nearly 21% in the quarter and increase our operating income rate by 167 basis points to 11.5%.
Mike will provide more specific details on the first quarter financial results later in the call.
During the quarter we continued to grow Commercial through providing customers with both reliable and increased delivery speed improved availability and through our efforts to increase the strength of our multichannel sales offering with the rollout of our business-to-business e-commerce platform.
During the quarter we restarted our commercial wave rollout and our growth continues to be fueled by rapid acceleration of our Commercial sales over the last several years.
In the first quarter Commercial made up approximately 38% of our total sales versus 36.6% of our total sales in the first quarter of last year.
Additionally we are pleased with the improved top line and bottom line performance of our commercially focused Autopart International business.
AI generated a 6.2% comp store sales increase while increasing their operating income rate by 246 basis points.
Our DIY business continued to improve and positively contributed to our comp store sales growth.
We continue to increase the level of service our Team Members provide better focus our advertising to drive customer traffic and maintain our competitive pricing structure to better compete locally.
All in our comp store sales grew 2.1% for the quarter.
Our performance was strong over the first 3 months of the first -- of the fiscal quarter driven by the increase in categories such as oil batteries and chemicals despite the high gas prices.
The milder winter and early spring weather allowed our customers to get an early start for the spring repair season and perform maintenance on their vehicles much earlier in the year.
However we saw softness in our failure-related categories as cars were more able to endure the mild winter and as such the demand for those products was lighter than anticipated.
Although we had a very solid quarter in sales our growth underperformed our expectations as our business significantly slowed in April partially offsetting our fast start to our year.
As we start our second quarter we continue to see the softness that we witnessed in April.
However we believe this slowdown is temporary and does not overshadow the strong structural elements of our industry including the roughly 240 million vehicles on the road and the average age approaching 11 years.
We believe these factors will continue to be major drivers of the long-term growth and the stability of our industry.
Gas prices have decreased from their previous highs earlier in the year and we are optimistic that the pace of our business will accelerate as gas prices decline.
As such we will remain committed to our priorities for the year and the pace in which we execute each initiative.
As a reminder those priorities include improving our in-market availability through the continued expansion of our hub network; the opening of our new DC during the back half of the year; our continued efforts to enhance our e-commerce offerings and to increase the penetration of our B2B e-commerce platform for our commercial customers; focused training for our field teams in the areas such as service leadership inventory management and commercial execution; and finally continued rollout of our commercial wave programs and the completion of the in-sourcing of our commercial credit to strengthen our competitive footing within the commercial market.
Mike will provide more specifics regarding the full year outlook in a moment.
A few weeks ago I was thrilled to visit with all of our general managers and field leaders from around the country during our Annual Leaders Forum.
I walked away with countless examples of how service leadership is being ignited across our company and it was truly inspiring to see the energy and enthusiasm from all of our leaders.
I'd like to close with an example of how one leader is bringing services our best part to life in the field.
Mike Byrd had joined Advance 23 years ago as a part-time salesman and has continually excelled with the company serving as Regional Vice President for the past 5 years.
He is a very focused leader spending a tremendous amount of time side-by-side with his district leaders.
He does a fantastic job coaching his teams on ways to better serve our customers.
Mike fully understands that our team is in our stores first and foremost to serve our customers.
Mike is very engaged and connects very easily with our store teams but he also sets a very high set of expectations for the team.
The recent financial and strategic results that his teams have posted in a very competitive market including top customer satisfaction scores and high marks both in team member retention and engagement are truly a testament to Mike's leadership and dedication of his entire leadership team.
Mike accepts excellence as the standard of performance and it shows in the outcomes he is driving.
Thanks Mike and keep driving us towards excellence.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer.
Thanks Darren and good morning.
I'd also like to congratulate the team for a solid first quarter.
I'll take a moment to highlight a few of our accomplishments during the quarter as well as update you on initiatives to support our superior availability strategy and new store growth.
As Darren mentioned we continue to move full speed ahead on our key priorities for the year which include our work to increase breadth and depth of our in-market product assortment and availability.
This objective is carried out through the efforts to increase the number of hubs in the marketplace as well as providing delivery capabilities from strategically positioned hubs and to continually improve the availability in our non-hub stores through the inventory upgrade process.
During the first quarter we added 23 hubs and our total hub count is now 317 stores.
Additionally we upgraded the inventory in 155 stores during the quarter.
As a direct result of our hub strategy and inventory upgrades our in-stock levels are up 70 basis points over last year and continued to run at record levels.
As a result of increasing sales and better pacing of inventory investments our inventory levels decreased 0.5% during the first quarter versus first quarter of last year.
Additionally we continue to expand our accounts payable to inventory ratio which increased roughly 820 basis points versus the first quarter of last year and now stands at 82.5%.
This increase in AP ratios allowed us to reduce our own inventory per store by 33.5% with our total owned inventory decreasing $174.2 million or down 32% versus first quarter of last year.
Turning to gross profit our gross profit rate declined 38 basis points to 50.1% versus first quarter of last year which was in line with our internal expectation.
The anticipated decline was driven by a slower pace of inventory growth resulting in higher supply chain costs as a percent of purchases.
However these cost increases were partially offset by efforts to improve the productivity of our labor and DCs and reduce our transportation costs by focusing on markets and routes where we can better leverage our hub delivery costs.
Operationally we continue to improve and employ high standards of inventory management and asset protection.
As a result the negative impact of shrink on our margins last year has abated and had no effect on our margins during the quarter.
The improvement in shrink was achieved a couple of quarters earlier than we had anticipated.
We continue to make progress on the opening of our Remington Indiana DC.
We remain on pace to begin receiving product during the second quarter and anticipate beginning shipping product in the third quarter.
This new DC will serve over 400 stores including daily delivery to nearly 200 stores.
Beside these capabilities this DC will provide us with much needed capacity improve our overall supply chain productivity and continue to increase our overall availability.
We continue to reach new customers and grow our sales through the successful expansion of our e-commerce capabilities and new store openings.
During the first quarter we opened 22 Advance stores 3 Autopart International stores and closed 5 Autopart International stores.
As of April 21 2012 the company's total store count was 3 682 including 200 Autopart International stores.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results in greater detail.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated Team Members for their contributions to the solid financial outcomes we delivered in our first quarter of 2012.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights for our first quarter of 2012; two put our first quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2012.
For the first quarter we are pleased with our ability to grow our profitability with EPS increasing 32.6% to $1.79 per share versus $1.35 during the first quarter of last year.
Total sales increased 3.1% to nearly $2 billion driven by a comparable store sales increase of 2.1% during the first quarter and 82 net new stores over the past 12 months.
Our comps were primarily driven by continued growth in our Commercial sales including Autopart International and the increasing contributions by our e-commerce business.
As Kevin mentioned our gross profit rate in the first quarter was 50.1% versus 50.5% in the first quarter 2011 or a decrease of 38 basis points.
This was in line with our expectations.
The decrease was primarily due to a much lower pace of inventory growth which drove higher supply chain costs partially offset by improvements in supply chain labor and transportation costs.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 38.6% decreased 205 basis points versus first quarter of 2011 primarily due to actions we took last year to build a more competitive cost structure including productivity improvements of our store labor a planned shift in expenses from Q1 to Q2 and some continued actions to produce our administrative support costs.
The planned shift in expenses which were previously communicated during our fourth quarter conference call include our annual general managers meeting advertising and some strategic investments.
Our team's improved execution and commitment to grow our business while building a more competitive cost structure resulted in a 20.7% increase in operating income versus first quarter of 2011 to $224.6 million.
Our operating income rate increased 167 basis points to 11.5% in the first quarter and 11.3% on a trailing 4 quarters basis.
Our EPS increased 32.6% to $1.79 per share.
Free cash flow grew to $153.1 million for the quarter driven by our strong growth in net income and reduced owned inventory.
As Kevin mentioned our reduction in owned inventory was primarily due to our efforts to increase our accounts payable to inventory ratio which is now at 82.5% versus 74.3% in the first quarter of 2011.
At the end of the first quarter we had $600.6 million of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.1x which is below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
Our average diluted share count was 74.2 million shares at the end of the quarter.
As we have stated in our press release the company's Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million share repurchase program.
This new authorization replaces the remaining $200 million of the company's $300 million share repurchase program authorized in August 2011.
We remain confident with the solid industry fundamentals the commercial market opportunity and our ability to profitably grow over time.
As we have consistently communicated we prioritize growth first as our primary use of capital to increase shareholder value which includes growing our business through our strategic investments and operational performance and looking for future growth opportunities or strategic capabilities that capitalize on the market growth opportunity.
While we see growth as our primary focus to increase shareholder value we will continue to use share buybacks opportunistically reflecting our confidence in achieving our growth plans.
As Darren mentioned our business softened significantly at the end of the first quarter and we are off to a slow start in Q2.
We believe the softness in our business is temporary and we remain confident about our growth prospects given the continued solid industry dynamics market opportunity and consumer preference for necessity.
Our commitment is unchanged to rolling out our strategic investments at the same pace as we originally planned which are focused on Commercial availability supply chain and e-commerce.
We remain relentlessly committed to growing our Commercial Business given the market opportunity and potential.
We have investments aimed at the foundational elements of serving our customers improving the consistency in which we serve and developing additional capabilities such as B2B platform and the in-sourcing of our commercial credit function.
We are pleased with the growth of our Commercial sales per program which currently is at $643 000 and we continue to be confident in our pathway to achieve our goal of $750 000 per program.
We are also pleased with our accelerating B2B e-commerce platform and see much growth ahead.
Turning to profit we are pleased with our continued improvement in our operating income per store and our record trailing 4-quarter operating income rate of 11.3%.
Our performance is driven by our team's solid operational performance and actions we took last year to build a more efficient and competitive business that would enable growth and improve our profit model.
These actions are allowing us to grow our business while funding the investments in areas such as Commercial availability supply chain and e-commerce and improve our profit model.
We are confident that the actions we have taken are the right ones as we have been able to improve the productivity of our store labor each quarter since the first quarter last year as well as the consecutive improvements in our DIY sales performance.
As a result of our commitment to build a more competitive cost structure while funding our strategic investments our total SG&amp;A dollars per store decreased 4.3% to $656 000 per store.
These actions have enabled us to achieve record profitability and more importantly continue to provide us confidence in our pathway to achieve 12% operating margins.
As we look at value creation we continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 20.3% which increased 230 basis points over the first quarter last year and represents a 440-basis point improvement on a 2-year basis.
We are also pleased with our 82.5% AP ratio and continue to see opportunities to improve our AP ratio and reduce our owned inventory.
We are focused on ensuring we are benefiting from our increased inventory per store to meet our customer availability needs and to maximize our cash flow.
Turning to the balance of the year we continue to be confident that the fundamentals in our industry are strong.
However we think it's prudent given the recent softness in our business to temper our second quarter expectations and we anticipate that our comp store sales will be flat to negative low-single digits in the second quarter.
In addition the previously communicated planned expense shift from the first quarter to the second quarter will negatively impact our SG&amp;A during the second quarter by roughly $13 million or $0.10 per share.
All in we anticipate a decline in year-over-year operating income dollars during the second quarter.
Given these solid industry dynamics our plan to maintain our investment profile and our operational expectations we expect our annual comp store sales will grow at low-single digits for 2012.
Our gross profit rate is tracking according to our previously communicated outlook and we will make the appropriate adjustments to trend in our business including adjustments to our variable expenses and maintaining our disciplined focus on managing our administrative and support costs.
As a result we expect that our total SG&amp;A dollars per store will be approximately flat to up 2%.
Although we anticipate our profitability during the second quarter will be constrained we are maintaining our previously communicated 2012 EPS outlook of $5.55 to $5.75 per share.
In closing I would like to thank all of our talented Team Members again for their performance during our first quarter.
They made a meaningful impact with their relentless focus on service and operational excellence which were key ingredients to improving our growth profit and returns in our first quarter.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Greg Melich with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on the top line and then on the SG&amp;A.
The do-it-for-me business there and if I got that right you said it was 38% versus a year ago.
I back into a do-it-for-me comp of around 5%.
One is my math right? And 2 what do you think really drove that deceleration? It seemed like do-it-for-me took a bit more on the chin this quarter than DIY? Greg we never give out the specifics but you're generally pretty good with your math.
And I would say a couple of things Greg.
What we saw and we tried highlight in the script today was the fact that if we would have reported in March it would have been a much better outcome April.
The business just seemed to take a step change down.
It wasn't just in the core but we saw it in our AI business too which is principally a northeast business.
Now we don't get market share anymore regionally so we can't tell you the impacts for the greater market.
But we can tell you that what we saw in April was just in our failure categories in particular in that northeastern section of the country.
It was disproportionally hit.
When we look to the south it didn't take as much of a hit.
So when we back up we'd say let's not overreact because we had a milder winter and we pulled some business probably out of the April time period into March time period.
So that's what we can see in the business today.
So as we said in our conference call script as we look out we have been here before where the business has zigged and zagged in different ways and I don't think and you should have heard on the call we don't plan to overreact we don't plan to stop focusing on what we're focused on and we plan to just drive the business forward as we have been the past 4 years.
Research Division</strong> And then second and I'll take this I guess to Mike on the guidance.
If you just look at how much the EPS grew in the first quarter you're already into your guidance for the range.
So do you think that your EPS for the rest of the year will effectively be flat and the plan is you're down in the second quarter and then up a little bit in the back half for or is it your guidance still doesn't include any buyback and that might be some that that's part of the difference? Could you remind us of that? Yes I think that's exactly the way to think about it.
Greg you heard in the comments we are going to see constrained in the second quarter and that's part because of some of the timing of our GM conference and the advertising of some of the things I referred.
You can see that our EPS for the year is planned to be up -- we plan to be in that range.
If the business is a little bit slower we'll be in the lower end of that range.
If the business comes back and as Darren alluded to then that's why we put a range out there.
But I think that's exactly the way to think about it.
Research Division</strong> Is your buyback in the guidance or not? It is not.
And very consistently we don't put our buyback in the guidance.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on the top line if you could allude to or talk to the experience you had in traffic and ticket particularly in DIY and whether that experience has changed at all over the course of the past few quarters? Yes Matt.
So for the last few quarters we've been talking about the DIY ticket.
The DIY transaction count it's been down.
The ticket has offset that and again in this quarter we did see a positive DIY comp number.
It wasn't a big number but the transactions I would say have roughly remained the same in terms of their consistent trend of being down offset by ticket.
When I look at our overall ticket trend our commercial tickets and our DIY tickets what we saw in the first quarter was that combined ticket trend was a little better than the previous 4 but we just didn't see the growth in the overall ticket.
So transactions -- combined transactions weren't as difficult in this first quarter as they had been in the previous 4 but the overall growth in the ticket has slowed a little bit.
And that probably doesn't come as a surprise when the mix of business out of failure changes a little bit and we haven't seen as many price increases this first quarter as we did last year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My second question relates to capital allocation.
If you could just give us a sense as to your internal thinking about the buyback and the cadence thereof the past couple of quarters you obviously haven't done very much.
The decision to re-up the authorization and more than double it in size presumably reflects some intent to deploy that buyback in the immediate future.
So how have you thought about it? And by the way it looks in retrospect like a fortuitous decision.
How have you thought about the pace of the buyback and what has driven your decision on when you're buying back stock and when you've put that on hold? Yes.
Matt it's Mike.
So share buybacks have been and are an important part of our capital deployment.
But in our view and as we've consistently behaved they're not the only opportunity to deploy capital to create shareholder value.
And we've consistently said that we prioritize growth first as our primary use of capital which includes growing our business through the strategic investments in our Commercial Business our availability and our operational performance and looking for future growth opportunities and strategic capabilities things like B2B.
They capitalize on the market growth we see.
So that's where our first priority is.
That said while we see growth as the primary focus to increase shareholder value we use buybacks opportunistically to reflect our confidence in those investments in those growth investments.
And we measure ourselves on those investments on ROIC which we're very pleased of over the last 4 years.
It's up 580 -- last 4 years up 580 basis points.
And what I'd say if you look back historically we have our behavior showed that we bought shares opportunistically and you can reasonably expect us to buy shares in the future which is why we have a repurchase authorization.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know last year's first quarter probably wasn't what you guys expected now we're seeing this big deceleration in April and a soft start to the second quarter.
Now last year's part of last year's issues was self-inflicted if I remember right.
A lot of changes in the field for us et cetera.
Was there anything internally that may have happened in April or is this simply a function of you saw the drop in traffic ticket whatever it was.
Yes Scott I would say that internally there's not anything that comes to mind.
A matter of fact we were purposeful.
We even moved our leadership meeting out to the end of -- or the beginning of the second quarter in order to keep the teams focused.
I don't know how to say it more clearly that the month of April was just a step change and I think weather evens out over time that deferred maintenance build hasn't changed.
We can see from the northeast to Miami very different patterns of what's happening.
And you know what? Your point is a good one.
We were on this call last year and I look back now and the only thing that's occurred in the last 4 quarters is that our trailing 4 quarters operating income rate is up 150 basis points.
Our ROIC is up 200 basis points.
Our owned inventory is down $170 million and our SG&amp;A per store and maybe this gets overlooked is that we're constantly balancing how do we get to a better operating model.
It's down $30 000 per store.
And there's no doubt in that delicate balance of trying to grow your business accelerate your business and drive the profitability and increase returns.
You're going to have moments that are nonlinear.
And so what you should have picked up on the call is that we learned something from last year in terms of how do we keep the teams focused on the business how do we not overreact to something in the moment and how do we stay going forward on the key strategies that we laid out.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful Darren and then with the slower sales results and the changing compensation plan that you've implemented across the organization do you start to get -- when do you start to get worried if at all about potential increase in employee turnover? Yes that's a fair question.
Well what we can see right now is if you look at the Hay Group they will tell you across the nation in retail we've seen a pronounced pickup in retail turnover specifically mostly in part-timers which is not new.
I think what their data would say is we're returning to pre-2008 levels.
When we look at our own data there are -- we care about all of our Team Members but we look at our parts pros for example which are just fundamentally critical to our Commercial Business and we've not seen any material change in our commercial parts pro turnover in the last 12 months.
So if I had to pick a group of Team Members that we watch very carefully it’s that group when we look at our general managers that hasn't moved but a point or 2 and less than the national averages.
And we look at our CAM workforce our sales force that's picked up a little bit.
Those things will happen.
Sales Team Members are a unique special and hungry group so when sales are happening or not happening they will move place to place as well.
But there's not one group today when I look within our mix over the last 12 months where I go we've got a problem.
But I wouldn't want to mislead you that they have ticked up but they're nowhere near the 2008 levels that we had seen as a company.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Darren a question on gross margin trends in the industry.
So looking at O'Reilly and AutoZone they're seeing the same growing sales contribution from Commercial that Advance is seeing.
And yet those 2 companies are posting higher gross margin rates raising gross margin guidance for the year.
How do you go about reconciling the gross margin direction at Advance compared to those 2 peers? Hey Dan this is Kevin.
I think there's a number of things that would define that.
One is if you were to take the trailing several years we were posting triple digit growth in gross margins multiple years in a row and overachieving our competitors at that point.
Some of the things that we did were opportunities that any modern retailer could pursue.
And just going through the press releases of our competitors there's maybe a sameness of some of those strategies that are getting deployed at different times over the past few years.
I think that explains part of it.
Part of it is also we've explained this we're bringing on additional supply chain capacity and what had been a tailwind in margin had been a consistent supply chain set of assets in a growing company we're leveraging over the last several years.
We're putting on a material facility and the related costs to that which is unique to us.
Additionally we are constantly as an industry competing back and forth and making sure that we are tracking each other's movements and pricing our products to be competitive and that will change from quarter-to-quarter of -- in which direction are you adjusting in any one moment.
But I think if you look at where we benchmark against them in absolute dollars adjusting for the fact that we have a slightly smaller commercial mix then O'Reilly's and a much larger commercial mix than AutoZone I think we stack up well in that comparison.
And Dan it's Mike I think go back to our outlook we are expecting that our margins will be modestly up for the year.
So I wanted to put that context out there for you.
Yes and you would say there are structural moments where margin improves we're early on Remington the benefits the costs are in front of us right in front of us but the benefits of the efficiency are quarters away if not a year away as we build up that capabilities in Remington Dan.
And we see the opportunity after Remington more structural benefits.
But they just the chronology of getting there there's cost before the benefits like many of our initiatives that we run before.
You probably saw earlier this quarter our Wearever Platinum launch of our brake program.
It's just more of the work that our merchandise teams are doing in our private label product as a way of bringing higher quality product to the marketplace.
That has better margin attributes as well.
So the global sourcing benefits continue to be out there and giving us benefits and we recognize there are pockets out there of price competition that we need to respond to.
So it’s a -- this constant balancing act.
But our absolute margins near 50 points our margins that we're happy with.
And as Mike said we still see opportunities to grow those margins not at triple digit rates but to balance it in light of the environment too.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up question on the sales growth performance in April seems to mirror the direction that O'Reilly was highlighting perhaps a bit more of an impact for Advance.
You noted that it appears to be more weather-related maybe transferring business forward rather than economic issues gasoline SARs whatever.
What is your experience -- if this air pocket in revenues is weather-related and transferring sales what will be the duration of this? In other words at what point will that begin to normalize and begin to get back to the sales ramp that you were talking about earlier in the year? Is this 3 months 6 months? Yes.
That's fair in terms of -- there are a couple of things to go into that.
If you give me a very hot summer on into the fall that will be outstanding for our business.
As you know better than many that those extremes really propel our business.
What we're pleased about on the last call and I think we tried to signal this when we gave our original guidance as we were looking out is that gas prices we can see this in the '09 numbers and the '10 numbers that when gas was called at $2.80 a gallon that consumer is from our vantage point continues to be under duress.
I mean they haven't gotten raises in a couple of years many of them.
So when gas begins that downward movement and I would say that I'm hopeful that we peaked the things that we read about today suggest more likely than not gas is coming down and not going up in the near term.
So we see that as we go into the back half of the year as being a plus.
The other thing that we see as a plus and it's partly a result of the milder winter in many of our core markets we saw actual miles driven for the first time pickup.
Last year you couldn't drive a lot in the northeast as a result of the weather and now it's first few months.
But we know miles driven and it doesn't happen immediately but it's wear and tear on the car.
So we see that as a positive sign as we start to look -- as we look further out.
And I don't know if that's the third quarter I don't know if that's the fourth quarter.
And though unemployment is still at a stubborn level I think it's 8.2% that tends to be a little bit of an overhang.
And in an election year who knows how the consumer begins to think about themselves again.
And so when I put that all together I see the positive theme certainly gas prices have plateaued and have begun to come down.
That traditionally is a good guy for us.
Miles driven ticking up it is a lead that typically is a good guy for us and miles driven did go up in the first quarter of the year.
In terms of unemployment rate it's not 9% anymore 8.2% I'll call that kind of steady as she goes.
So neither -- not necessarily a positive but not going backwards again.
And how the consumer is thinking about in an election year just personally their spending habits who knows in terms of what that means to.
It does not change the fundamental number of cars on the road doesn't change the age and it does not change the deferred maintenance bill which is $60 billion.
And if I recall in the '07 '08 period where we roughly as an industry and we can see in the total market share numbers that the total market has come down a bit particularly in March and April.
That when we get relief in terms of some discretionary income that deferred maintenance bill comes due.
It just didn't come due in April and May the beginning of May this year but that bill is going to come due.
Our next question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question and then a follow-up you've done a good job on expenses and is it possible that maybe you've cut too deep in terms of trucks per store or commercial salespeople or change in the comp structure? How do you evaluate that because the weakness seemed to be much more in the Commercial side than on the retail side? Yes Gary you're right.
We have taken out in the last 12 months about $30 000 per store.
When we look at just fundamentally the number of trucks per store the number of trucks in the enterprise those are up modestly.
So they're not up double digits and we have deployed new techniques like Flex Fleet to make sure we're getting the trucks to the right place.
We're not pouring them on at double-digit rates like we were 2 years ago.
So that's -- you're right about that.
Our sales team has grown roughly 6% over the last 12 months.
So we've added salespeople.
But I don't know if this is a but -- and for example we have had a more concerted effort on our B2B platform a little better than a year ago.
That number was probably closer to 0.
Today it's approaching double digits and we think that there's growth ahead of us in terms of B2B penetration.
That has a twofold effect.
It makes it easier for our customers to shop.
The retention rates are better.
In our own Commercial Business what we can see in the first quarter our best customers our retention rates were at the highest levels that they've been in a year.
Those actually went up.
So what we can see going forward to your point is we look at driving the business going forward.
It's going to take a little bit more in terms of driving new customers in because we're feeling good about how we're retaining our best customers.
Now we got to widen that sales bundle a little bit.
And as we said in our prepared remarks whether it's through waves process [ph] or whether it's through our commercial credit program which we think today were competitively disadvantaged that's why we're taking it in-house in order to use that more as a tool to enable more in the sales process that those things are things that we've learned how to do very effectively over the last 4 years.
And over the balance of the year we're not pulling back on those things.
We're pushing ahead of them.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned the offsite that you had I think in Charlotte.
Could you talk about the strategic initiatives that you discussed with the employees? Well I would just say just generally the key theme to our Charlotte leadership forum was one we talked about commercial excellence so this very -- I'm not going to repeat what I just said is that for our commercial programs to continue to grow at the rates we expect them to grow it's going to take more of a combined effort from our sales and operations teams.
And so part of that work together was how do we use the sales and operations team to build more of a commercial sales culture and the execution in terms of whether it's delivery times the number of call CPPs are making the follow-up on focus customers the roles and owning those commercial relationships.
And with culture it doesn't change overnight but it's just a more a concerted effort to own the commercial sales culture throughout the organization was one.
We talked about inventory excellence.
One of the things you did not hear on the call today is that our margin was challenged by shrink.
I can't tell you how proud I am of the team in terms of turning that around.
So part of just being able to make the sale is that we have to just be outstanding at our on-hands and this business as Kevin always tells me it's an item business and making sure we have everything ready and available in improving our close rates at the point of sales.
So we spent a fair amount of time talking about inventory excellence.
We talked about service excellence and service excellence throughout all the key roles in our organization and helping our Team Members understand the customer expectations and the Team Member expectations.
And across the country today different than a year ago every team member knows where they stand every day in terms of their sales performance and sales expectation.
And we're systematically going across the country.
And at this level working to every team member to understand their sales contribution their transactions per hour their DPT per hour and how we can better help them serve our customers better in terms of delivering on the outcomes.
We spend a fair amount of time a good amount of time also listening.
And so a good portion of this we also had 3 days with some of our best commercial customers talking to us about what's on their mind and what we can do better to serve them in terms of where we're falling short or where the industry is falling short.
So we used that time in Charlotte also with our best customers in terms of a customer forum.
And then as Mike alluded to and Kevin alluded to we have many I'll call it technical improvements to the business.
The B2B platform our e-services and how we sell those into the marketplace are important to us to talk to the team about.
We're working on our own new EPC in order to make it easier for our Team Members to sell to the customers and be enabled in terms of the selling process.
And probably lastly and probably most importantly we used a good chunk of that time to just celebrate the outstanding performance of many of our best sales Team Members and general managers.
Our next question is from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about where you saw the slowdown in terms of DIY versus Commercial in April and just kind of -- and you've alluded to it a little bit but just wondering if it was significantly more drastic in the DIY business or if it was fairly evenly spread between the 2.
I'd say relatively speaking they both took a step down.
So as we said our DIY business comped positive.
They comped positive in the fourth quarter of this past year.
It was comping much more positive in the first 3 periods of the quarter.
But David I would say that the last time that I've seen this little step change I think it was Thanksgiving of '07.
There was just from the beginning of Thanksgiving to the Christmas period something just fundamentally seemed to change.
Now it was warmer Christmas back then with the consumers' buying habits.
So that leads me to believe when I can look across both businesses I don't think the consumer is walking away from their car needs.
But I just fundamentally believe and when I don't know I call our Team Members and spend time with our Team Members who have been here 30 years and said we've seen this before and when we look north to south we can see in the failure categories and the wiper categories we can see the impact of those changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to dig a little bit more on the DIY side of the business you mentioned that you were comping much more positively earlier in the quarter but I was just wondering what you're seeing in the competitive environment there and if that's -- obviously this is I think the fifth quarter in a row that at least on a per store basis that the DIY business is down.
And are you seeing incremental pressure there that you think will persist? I don't know that we're seeing anything competitively different.
Probably the fundamental competitive difference between our competitors and our self is just the number of new stores that we've been adding as an organization relative to others.
Now we have said previously as we look out we see an opportunity with new stores to grow them at a faster rate for sure.
Now those new stores and it's one of the things we didn't talk about in our prepared remarks our new stores in the first quarter exceeded our expectation.
As we look out there will be new store closing that gap in terms of new store growth but they're much more commercially driven new stores than DIY-driven new stores.
The overall market we continue to believe in DIY and I think we've said this for years is that '09 and '10 were somewhat of an anomaly because structurally the market we believe is a 1 maybe a 2 grower going forward.
And in that 1 or 2 we know that there's a little bit of inflation that historically has been in those product categories.
So I don’t think there’s been fundamental competitive or fundamental structural changes in DIY.
I think there was just a fundamental choice that the consumer might have spent their money on x versus y because they didn't have the same pressure coming out of a winter season.
And they spent some of those dollars a little sooner.
We might even say that they spent those dollars we didn't have a tough December in terms of weather January.
In many of our markets March was much more historically high warm weather relative to April.
Research Division</strong> Just one final follow-up since you mentioned the new store strategy.
You closed I think 5 AI stores this quarter and the new stores or maybe a little bit less than at least we were expecting.
Just curious if you -- if you're still on track in terms of the store opening plan this year and if the 5 store closures were indicative of anything broader or just one-off choices.
No absolutely not.
They were just small sores.
Some of them will be relocated.
Yes.
We're on pace to open the number of stores we put in our outlook and they're just more -- and it was planned this year just more towards the back of the year versus last year.
Our next question is from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So on your sales on guidance there obviously includes an increase in the back half of the year an acceleration.
If that doesn't happen how much of the SG&amp;A can you take out in terms of what you're planning on spending? I understand you think [indiscernible] the last few months is just an anomaly and so no need to panic.
I get that but if it does turn into a more of a [indiscernible] trend can you pull out some of the expenses? Yes.
So a couple of things happen.
One is there are certain expenses like variable expenses that will naturally flow with sales.
So those will flex up and down as sales flex up and down.
We also have discretionary dollars that we can flex up and down.
The things that we're not willing to compromise are the things that Darren talked about.
We still think the fundamentals in this industry are strong areas.
So investing in areas like Commercial availability our supply chain our e-commerce our global sourcing I can go on are important.
And we also see opportunities for some of the work we did last year to build a more cost competitive structure where we can pull costs out that are furthest away from the customer to fund those investments.
And I'll remind you that's why we gave you a range.
We expect our SG&amp;A per store to grow in the kind of flat to 2 and we will toggle somewhere in that range depending on how the sales flex.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask a follow-up maybe I'm just not getting enough.
But [indiscernible] your total sales and the percent that was DIFM versus DIY I get that total DIY sales are up 0.8%.
And given the square footage growth I guess how do I square that if that is in fact right? How do I square that with your DIY comps being positive? Well you'll have to check your math because we're not -- they were positive but they were modestly positive.
So I think it's just in the rounding.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Then last one if I could.
If you think that the slowdown in April was just a pull forward and May is temporary [indiscernible].
I guess why change the full year comp guidance from low- to mid-single digits to just low-single digits? Is that just you think it was just a pull forward and short-term disruption just being a little bit prudent on that outlook? Yes.
I think that's right.
It's Mike.
I think that's right.
And our final question today comes from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
If you like at the timing of the demand it seems like weather impacted pretty significantly.
Have you looked at a comparable SKU basis over a 2-quarter standpoint? It sounds like if failure parts were soft have you looked at between fourth quarter and first quarter whether the demand was pulled forward or whether it's just total loss of demand given the lack of winter? Yes.
We definitely saw improvement in maintenance categories even in fourth quarter.
It was a very mild December.
If you look switching to the wiper-blade business and you see it sequentially declined from fourth quarter into the first quarter.
So clearly as Darren briefly stated benefit of maintenance categories absolute pull forward into both even as early as November and things like the occurrence chemicals [ph].
So that's what we've seen coming into April.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on the 2-year stack basis do you have a feeling for total of the loss demand on the failure parts? Things just did not break with the lack of winter? Certainly if you look at some of the categories that are heavily indexed into the northern markets like under car yes the cars just did not get the kind of salt and grime that drives damage to those vehicles and we've seen that sequentially from last year to this year in terms of overall failure category performance or lowering performance.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our first quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our third quarter earnings release is scheduled for November 8 2012 before market open.
And our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday November 8 2012.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for one year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Before I begin I'd like to thank our 54 000 team members for their hard work and diligence as they navigated us through a challenging quarter.
As you have seen in our earnings release this morning our second fiscal quarter reflected a near-term slowdown within the industry and in our results.
Today I thought it'd be helpful to provide some context and perspective on the drivers of the slowdown.
As we anticipated the second quarter faced weak consumer demand in both DIY and Commercial with significant slowdown in our cold weather markets principally located within the Northeast and Great Lakes regions of the U.S.
From a consumer perspective gas prices continue to weigh on demand.
The average gas price increased nearly $0.10 a gallon over the first quarter of this year.
The good news is the current outlook is for gas to be lower the rest of the year.
Macro environment continues to be stressed with high unemployment and low consumer confidence which has constrained consumer spending.
This was evident across retail and reflective of our business as consumers were only willing to spend the absolute minimum amount on failure-related parts and were willing to defer maintenance purchases.
This slowdown in both failure and maintenance spending impacted both DIY and Commercial and led to a deceleration in sales growth versus the first quarter.
The principal driver on the deceleration was a sequential quarter-to-quarter decline in the average ticket while our transaction growth was down modestly.
In the non-cold-weather markets we saw transaction growth from Q1 to Q2 accelerate in the low single digits.
The overall company transaction growth in Commercial still remained positive in the low single digits from a comparable store perspective.
The average ticket decline reflects a combination of mix of products sold and our pricing position in the second quarter.
The industry is experiencing the impact of lower inflation in some key seasonal categories like air conditioning and the absence of escalating oil prices and the impact on the oil change special programs.
In addition there are pockets where the consumer is trading down in select categories in pursuit of savings.
Finally while price promotions are not having an immediate positive impact on the top line we believe it will positively contribute to our growth in the future.
From a geographical perspective we saw different results throughout the regions of the company with the greatest deceleration in our cold weather markets again especially in the Northeast and the Great Lakes regions.
Our performance in those 2 markets is reflective of the milder weather conditions during the first quarter which impacted hard parts and pulled the business forward in the second quarter.
Our comparable store sales declined mid-single digits in these regions of the country including our Autoparts International stores within those geographies.
Conversely we saw acceleration from the first quarter through the second quarter in our stores located in the western half of the U.S.
Our comparable store sales continue to grow positively and we're up low single digits in our western geographies where only 10% of our stores are located as they continue to be less impacted by severe fluctuations in weather.
As a result of the declining ticket and lower DIY transaction counts our comp store sales decreased 2.7% which was at the low end of our outlook for the quarter.
Additionally our operating income decreased $19.7 million to $169.2 million in the quarter.
This was in line with our outlook for the quarter.
Despite achieving our previously shared range of outcomes we are not satisfied with our performance during the quarter.
Yet we remain encouraged by the fundamentals of our industry and have specific action plans to improve our performance for the balance of the year.
As such we continue to focus on growing Commercial and competing for the right to serve our customers.
The last few years have been focused on gaining a level of fundamental or basic competitiveness by implementing the table stakes of the Commercial business which simply meant investing in the industry's best parts pros sales team delivery trucks and parts availability.
We continue to focus our efforts in those areas but realize the next level will require us to move from being fundamentally better to providing our customers with even greater levels of reliable service increased delivery speed and superior availability.
As a result we continue to move forward with the in-sourcing of our Commercial credit function the opening of our new DC with daily replenishment capabilities rolling out our B2B e-commerce platforms electric part -- electronic parts catalog and diagnostic tools for our Commercial customers.
These key initiatives will fuel our growth over the next several years and allow us to aggressively grow in Commercial.
Our field and sales teams are more focused than ever at running the business with excellence.
Kevin will provide you with an update on our progress in the opening of our DC and other operations update.
As we start our third quarter and look to the back half of the year we continue to anticipate sluggish consumer demand and choppiness in our business performance.
I want to stress we view this as a moment of unevenness versus a longer-term downward trend in the industry or our performance.
In the upcoming quarter and possibly for the balance of the year we anticipate we will continue to see lower transaction counts driven by DIY partially offset by slight improvements in our average ticket.
However in the second half of the year we will continue to roll out our new Commercial program and make investments and focus our efforts in the following areas: improving our availabilities through the addition of new and converted hub stores and inventory upgrades these availability investments will translate into roughly $60 million of increased parts inventory; we are increasing our traffic-driving advertising to stem the decline in transactions and increase the number of customers that visit our stores; we continue to grow our Commercial sales force and anticipate growing our team by roughly 5%; and finally we will continue to maximize our in-store labor to meet our customers' needs and provide superior customer service.
We expect but cannot guarantee that the hot summer and more normalized winter weather will provide a lift as we enter the back half of the year.
However we remain cautious with our outlook as our current trends suggest that our comp store sales will be constrained.
This view of our business is reflected in the outlook Mike will share a little later.
Internally we are working with a sense of urgency and taking steps to drive a better outcome than our trends suggest.
Our efforts and our focus remain on generating positive comps for the balance of the year.
In closing I want to share a story of how team members Alex Moore [ph] and Chris Webb recently showed what living our values looks like.
Alex [ph] from our store in Christianburg Virginia stayed well after closing one night to help a family who was stranded while driving from Connecticut to Florida.
Their alternator and radiator had failed and their car battery was dead.
Chris an instructional designer on our training team at the support center who was passing by at 10:30 at night on his way home saw the car in the parking lot and stopped to offer his help.
Alex [ph] and Chris stayed well after midnight helping our customers get back on the road again in their time of need.
I would like to recognize and thank Alex [ph] and Chris for their compassion and their focus on service for the decisions they made to help create an Advance customer for life.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer.
Kevin? Thanks Darren and good morning.
I'd also like to thank the team for their hard work during the second quarter.
I'll provide updates on the work that occurred during the quarter as well as update you on our initiatives to support our superior availability strategy and new store growth.
As Darren mentioned our soft performance during the quarter does not overshadow the long-term fundamentals of both our business and industry.
Our focus on increasing breadth and depth of our end market product assortment and availability remains and will continue to aggressively move forward with the availability initiatives we laid out at the beginning of the year.
Those initiatives include: the expansion of our hub network the continuous upgrade of our parts inventory at our non-hub stores the opening of our new DC and the continued growth and rollout of our B2C and B2B e-commerce platforms Commercial diagnostic tool and our electronics -- electronic product catalog.
Hubs and inventory upgrades continue to be a vital component to our availability strategy as it allows us to provide superior end market parts availability.
Due to the aging fleet of vehicles both maintenance and failure parts have increased in order of importance for our DIY and Commercial customers.
We continue to expect the demand for these products to increase as the average age of vehicles increase despite the current slowdown in demand due to unseasonably warm weather.
As a result we continue to increase the number of hubs through new store expansion and upgrade of existing stores which have the space and are strategically positioned to operate as a hub.
At the end of our second quarter our total hub count was 320 versus 288 in the second quarter of last year.
Additionally we upgraded the inventory in 231 non-hub stores during the quarter.
As I mentioned increasing our parts availability is critical to our success and growth.
However we've been working to ensure to free up capital to fund other parts of our business.
As such we continue to expand our accounts payable-to-inventory ratio which increased roughly 784 basis points from 75.1% at the end of second quarter last year to 82.9%.
As a direct result we've reduced our owned inventory by 31.3% or 163.4 million from 521.6 million to 358.2 million.
As previously stated our new Remington Indiana distribution center was slated to start receiving product in the second quarter and I'm delighted that we successfully achieved that milestone.
Work is now under way to schedule the first outbound shipments in mid-September.
We will ship product to our stores in phases ramping up to 400 stores next year.
We're also excited about our ability to provide improved availability by providing daily replenishments to over 200 stores next year.
Essentially adding this new capability will allow us to provide greater coverage to the cars in the market and the customers we serve.
We continue to focus on growing our business through our expanded penetration of our B2B capabilities to our Commercial customers as well as through successful new store openings.
During the second quarter we opened 10 stores including 3 Autopart International stores.
Year-to-date we've opened 35 stores including 6 Autopart International stores.
As of July 14 2012 our total store count was 3 692 including 203 Autopart International stores.
We remain on pace to open approximately 120 to 140 stores this year.
Our gross profit rate increased 16 basis points to 49.9 versus 49.7 during the second quarter of 2011.
The increase was primarily driven by improvements in shrink and supply chain expenses due to labor productivity and lower fuel costs partially offset by increased promotional activity and a higher mix of Commercial sales.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate was 50.0 a 14-point-basis decline over the same period in fiscal 2011.
Again I'd like to thank the team for their hard work during this challenging environment.
We remain confident in the priorities we've laid out and our teams are working diligently to ensure our focus does not get diluted and that we execute our initiatives and the fundamentals of our business flawlessly.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers as we navigated through a challenging second quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights from our second quarter of 2012; two put our second quarter and year-to-date results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2012.
During our first quarter earnings call we shared that we were tempering our second quarter expectations given our slow start to the quarter.
We ended up coming in at the lower end of the outlook range we shared for the quarter.
We believe our softness is a function of the tough economic environment that is taking a toll on our customers as evidenced in our maintenance categories and the lingering impacts of this year's milder winter.
This latter point is evidenced by the significant softness we experienced in our cold weather market such as the Northeast and Great Lakes areas.
This softness drove weakness in both our DIY and Commercial businesses and our Autopart International stores.
While we are disappointed with our second quarter performance we also know our relative underperformance can be partially explained by the fact we have more stores in colder weather markets.
For our second quarter our total sales decreased 1.3% to nearly $1.5 billion driven by a comp store sales decrease of 2.7% partially offset by the net addition of 65 new stores over the past 12 months.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 1.2% to $3.4 billion and our comp store sales are flat.
As Kevin mentioned our second quarter gross profit rate increased 16 basis points to 49.9% versus 49.7% in the second quarter of 2011.
The increase was primarily driven by improvements in shrink and supply chain expenses due to the labor productivity and lower fuel costs partially offset by promotional activity and a higher mix of Commercial sales.
Our Commercial mix represented 38% of our 2012 sales versus 37.2% in 2011.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate decreased 14 basis points to 50% versus 50.2% over the same period last year.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 38.3% increased 135 basis points versus the second quarter of 2011 primarily due to expense deleverage as a result of our 2.7% comp store sales decline and a planned shift of expenses from first to second quarter partially offset by lower year-over-year incentive compensation expenses.
Year-to-date our SG&amp;A rate decreased 56 basis points to 38.5% versus 39.1% over the same period last year.
All in our second quarter operating income dollars decreased 10.4% and our operating income rate decreased 119 basis points to 11.6% primarily driven by the planned SG&amp;A shift from first to second quarter and the SG&amp;A deleverage from the lower comp sales.
While our diluted earnings per share decreased 8.2% to $1.34 versus $1.46 last year roughly $0.08 was due to the SG&amp;A shift.
The planned shift in expenses which was previously communicated during our first quarter conference call was driven by our annual general managers' meeting and some strategic investments.
Through the first half of 2012 our operating income dollars increased 5% to $393.8 million and our diluted EPS increased 12.5% to $3.14.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $265.4 million down 7.6% over the same period last year.
The decrease was driven by increased accounts payable as a result of the in-sourcing of our commercial credit program and lower deferred income taxes due to the lapse of certain corporate tax legislation offset partially by continued reductions in our owned inventory.
As Kevin mentioned our owned inventory decreased 31.3% from second quarter 2011 driven by our continued efforts to increase our accounts payable-to-inventory ratio which now stands at 82.9% versus 75.1% in the second quarter of 2011.
We are maintaining our previously communicated annual free cash flow outlook to still be a minimum $400 million which includes our previously communicated increase in accounts receivable of $80 million to $100 million with a full year from in-sourcing our commercial credit program.
We are excited about this new capability as it will allow us to provide a higher level of customer service to our existing Commercial customers help fuel our Commercial growth as we increase our credit penetration with customers and allow us to build deeper relationships with our customers at lower costs.
At the end of the second quarter we had $448.6 million of cash and $600 million of long-term debt on our balance sheet.
Our adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.1x which is well below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
Our average diluted share count was 74 million shares at the end of the second quarter.
While we're not meeting our expectations as we go through this soft period we remain confident with the solid industry fundamentals the commercial market opportunity and our team's ability to improve our performance.
We continue to measure our performance through the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
As we have consistently communicated we prioritize growth as our primary use of capital to increase shareholder value which includes growing our business through our strategic investments our operational performance and looking for future growth opportunities or strategic capabilities that capitalize on the market growth opportunity.
While we see growth as our primary focus to increase shareholder value we will continue to use share buybacks opportunistically.
At the end of our second quarter we have roughly $500 million left on our share repurchases authorization.
While there will be moments in time where investors will attempt to read into our share repurchase activity we want to remind investors that we take a long-term disciplined approach to share repurchases and we measure our success over years and not over quarters.
We continue to maintain the same disciplined approach with respect to share repurchases which is focused on creating long-term value not short-term earnings.
While this can have a tendency to frustrate short-term shareholders this philosophy has allowed us to purchase over 41% of the company at an average price of roughly $43 since 2004.
Turning to profit.
We continue to improve our profitability which is reflected in our operating income per store and our trailing 4-quarter operating income rate of 11% which is up 100 basis points from 10% during the second quarter last year.
We have been able to invest in both Commercial and availability while preserving our in-store service levels by maintaining the same levels of labor hours in our stores.
We've been able to fund these investments by managing our cost structure through our continued focus to build a more efficient competitive and profitable operating model.
As we look at value creation we continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 19.9% which increased 140 basis points over the second quarter of last year.
Our ROIC has increased over 600 basis points over the past 4 years.
We're also pleased with our 82.9% AP ratio which continues to lower our owned inventory and we believe we can get our AP ratio to 100% over time.
Turning to the balance of the year.
While we are not satisfied with our second quarter performance we believe that the long-term industry dynamics and -- are solid and our commitment is unwavering to continue our strategic investments at the same pace as we originally planned which are focused on Commercial availability supply chain and e-commerce.
These are foundational to our future growth and thus we will not slow or change the timing of them.
That said our business trends continue to be soft with a challenging consumer environment.
This coupled with industry growth decelerating and more challenging second half of 2012 comp sales compares particularly in the fourth quarter which historically has been our most volatile quarter require us to take a more prudent approach to our annual outlook.
As a result we now expect our annual comp store sales to be flat to slightly down for 2012.
We continue to expect our gross profit rate will improve modestly for the full year as previously shared in our outlook.
We will make the appropriate adjustments in our variable expenses with the changed comp outlook and we'll maintain our disciplined focus on managing our discretionary and administrative support costs.
As a result we now expect our SG&amp;A per store will be down 1% to 2% for 2012.
With these changes we now anticipate our fiscal 2012 EPS to be in the range of $5.25 to $5.35 per share.
In closing I would like to thank our talented team members again for their resolve and focus to serve our customers during our challenging second quarter.
We have confidence in our team as they have shown many times that when faced with adversity they always respond with character resiliency and competitive spirit.
We expect to rise to the challenge to improve our performance.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to obviously the results.
When you analyze what's going on obviously your numbers -- everybody slowed down in the sector and Darren you talked about that.
But if you look at the disadvantage that you have because of the fact that your delivery -- I mean you mentioned you're going to have the hub working soon or you're going to have the delivery center working soon but what's the disadvantage caused by that? Have you adjusted labor hours at the store that's maybe hurt you? Do you -- why do you feel you lost momentum in Commercial? This has -- it looks like it was negative.
But how do you address those? And what are you doing to deal with those on a near-term and long-term basis? Yes Gary.
Absolutely the right questions.
Maybe a little bit of context.
When we look at our overall Commercial business in the second quarter -- as we said when we look through it and ask the question "Are we still driving the business as measured by transactions? " our transactions across the company were up low single digits.
As a matter of fact many if not all of our non-weather-affected markets they were up better than mid-single digits.
And so when I look at the help [ph] of being out there are we delivering the parts are the teams making the sales calls are we improving in terms of our relationships with customers I think transactions are a better proxy.
What we see then is that we saw a lot of pressure on ticket and we are seeing a little bit of trade down in the categories.
And in my comments -- and you can look across the industry.
We have some great customers up in the Northeast.
One of them is a public company.
We saw those same challenges in the weather-affected parts of the business principally in our maintenance categories and that include categories like brakes.
When we get down to the next fundamental question you said we're expanding our hub network we're doing daily replenishment maybe a way to think -- maybe a way to answer that question is that we have 315 hub stores today.
Those are big Commercial programs for us many of those well over $2 million in terms of their productivity.
And what we're finding is that as we go across the country we use those hubs to supplement some of the local stores in terms of their availability.
If we could flip a magic wand and convert all of our DCs to daily replenishment we would.
But in lieu of that what we've been doing over the course of several years is just slowly marching up our hard parts SKU count at the local store level and at the hubs.
So we still see an opportunity in the existing network and we still have some of the largest stores in the industry I mean not by thousands of square feet but certainly hundreds to continue to add hard parts at the local level.
We know when have the hard part at the local store our close rates are darn near 100%.
And so when we said we're going to invest $60 million in the back half at the hubs and local stores we're essentially doing the same.
We're going to add thousands of hard part SKUs to those local stores across the network.
Hubs aren't ideal but by themselves they're a great return.
Our first replenishment facility comes online later this fall.
We've inked our second replenishment facility.
And over the course of several years now what we've done is through a balance of custom mix technology by store and actually getting rid of what we'd say some of the slow-moving product we feel like we're in a certainly an improving position each year.
But I'll be -- is it ideal? Not ideal in terms -- ideal is closer to a daily replenishment model but we certainly have tools.
And we certainly are focused by not worrying what we can't control but what we can in terms of adding to that availability.
As to labor hours in the first half of the year our labor hours were up just modestly on a per-store basis.
So it's not a case that we pulled back.
We made a little bit of a bet in the second quarter a little bit on pricing and a little bit in terms of traffic driving.
And my takeaway is is that when we start to snap back in some of those cold weather markets they should start behaving more like some of our non-weather-affected markets which really gives us -- and I don't know if the word is hope but confidence that the business will come back overall.
I think what you heard on our call is that we see the back half.
Our teams are absolutely focused in our internal targets and plans to drive positive comp store sales.
That is absolutely the expectation here.
And we're also realistic that we see trends in terms of that hot weather that we just experienced is -- generally positions us well.
And the benefits of that come when it gets cold principally in places like batteries first and foremost.
So we're trying to both send a message that we're being balanced in terms of what we see immediately in the consumers.
But more importantly in the short term give us a little cold weather in those cold weather markets I'm certain we'll see some of those businesses absolutely snap back.
And it doesn't change the fundamental pieces of our industry of 240 million cars on the road.
They're out there.
And the consumer from our point of view are making choices today where they're just stretching it out a little bit longer principally in the maintenance categories in order to manage their checkbook a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> And just for my follow-up and I won't ask -- Mike kind of scared us off from asking the buyback questions so I'll stick to something else.
I'll do it with somebody else on that one.
Do you think that -- all 3 of you kind of said the weather has had an impact.
A few years ago business wasn't that strong because -- and then all of a sudden all this deferred maintenance started getting spent on and comps picked up a lot for everybody.
I think we're just past that stage where the deferred maintenance kind of caught up and this is more normal.
Or do you think the weather really is the difference right now? Yes you're right Gary.
Back in 2008 I remember having one of these conference calls.
And with ourselves and the industry we're all kind of shaking our head and it was essentially flat comps for the industry but down a couple of places.
And then 180 days later we were all high-fiving   because the comps were closer to 10.
I think if you look at some of the AAI data and other data it's said the deferred maintenance still out there at any one point in time is not less than $60 billion.
So it's still a big number that sits out there in those vehicles for us.
So I think it's certainly out there.
I think the way the consumer is managing their dollars right now is that we've talked about this time and time again that gas price from our vantage point I think is every $0.01 move is $1 billion of discretionary income.
As that comes down and we can see it in some of our markets where there's a little more gas price relief those tend to be markets that are doing a little bit better.
And as you said and I'll reinforce that we have markets where quite frankly they -- the difference and these aren't small markets from the Northeast the parts of the South are literally 15 points difference in terms of how they're performing.
And so I don't think the economies are that different between the 2 markets for sure.
But I certainly pin back to win those markets and competitively they're comparable too.
So I do think we have a little bit of a stretch-out period going on in some markets.
In other markets that were less impacted they're behaving the way we expected them to behave.
Our next question comes from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
First on the sales trend.
I mean Darren clearly the focus is getting those comps back to positive and you listed how things are doing.
But also the guidance infers that it's negative in the back half.
Could you just give us some insight as to how it's been since the end of the quarter? I assume it's still negative but maybe better than they actually were in the second quarter.
And you mentioned in your release the second part of that that the last period of the quarter was better.
Can you just describe what that period was? Yes.
So as we -- a couple of things Greg to your direct question.
Since the beginning of the quarter it's been a little choppy.
And so what I can see and we've talked about this in the remarks I mean this is through our final period which is -- let's talk about mid-July.
Our comps absolutely turned positive in the final period.
And it was low single digit low low single digit but they turned positive which was a turnaround from what we experienced early in the quarter.
And if you said what was driving it it certainly -- we all saw the heat come back into the market.
That helped drive some of the seasonal categories.
And we have that lift.
I mean the thing that tends to benefit from that as you know is -- you take air conditioning.
That was a principal driver.
It didn't help as much this year because as we saw that was one of the categories from an inflation point of view that was literally down 50% this year.
In some cases we could have been up 38% in units but still down 12% in comps because the inflation effect went against us this year and we saw a little bit of that in the ticket.
But all that being said I think the read you should take away from that when we bounced back to I'd say more seasonal trends.
And in many of our markets it went beyond seasonal trend.
It was just plain warmer than it ever has been.
The business reacted appropriately.
When we look to the back half of the year and what we can see is that our confidence -- we're no good at predicting the weather I'll just tell you that.
But what we are good at predicting is that if we have more normalized weather patterns the heat that we just experienced will certainly manifest itself in some of our stronger categories of business that sits in the starters alternators and battery categories.
That -- I think the difference between a strong positive in the second half and a more challenging business trend like we're experiencing in the first half is literally if we find our way back to the more normalized patterns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question in terms of capital allocation.
You guys are running with more cash than ever before and I think I heard your comments mention a second daily replenishment facility.
I'm wondering are you considering another new DC like Remington? Or is there some other spending there? I mean we've seen some acquisitions like Quaker City that came up.
How do you think about allocating that cash? Or is that the new level you need to run at given the commercial credit program? Yes.
Yes.
So 3 things.
Greg you're right.
We're at an all-time high level of cash.
I did say that as we look out we've penciled a new agreement for a second daily replenishment center.
I'd like to actually not get into the details of where it is for competitive reasons but everything that we see certainly says that to take -- to further build on the momentum we built in the last 4 years we're taking the next steps competitively in the Commercial segment.
And we believe that's where the future is.
Mike did talk about commercial credit.
For years I mean it was just lower on the priority list.
We had that outsourced to a third-party bank.
It was principally a retail bank.
What we know is that we're going to spend $100 million which is comparable to our competitors to bring it into the business.
We feel that by bringing that in we're going to actually be able to provide a better level of customer service.
More importantly only about half of our business is done on commercial credit today which is a fraction of where the industry is or even AI.
So we think it's not only a great customer service tool but it also is a sales generation tool for many of our customers that quite frankly could benefit from that credit particularly in difficult times.
So that's 2.
As we look to next year our store count -- and we have purposely -- and I think this is I've said this before is challenging some of our comps relative to others in the competitive set.
We have slowed store growth to about 100 stores a year.
We'll be 125 this year.
Next year that number will be closer to 200.
And the bright spot of our performance this year has really been this class of new stores.
So we've been spending time re-architecting the store model to be a more commercially driven store model a much lower cost model for us in terms of the cost to build it and where we place it.
As we go into next year we see a great opportunity to begin to up the store count in terms of many of the markets that we see in part because of the commercial potential.
And 4 years later we feel like we have a commercially oriented new store program that is worth investing more dollars into for sure.
Our next question comes from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the distribution center is there any way you could quantify the potential benefit that you might see on the sales side as that facility comes online? Yes this is -- Michael this is Kevin.
The -- essentially the center will totally service over 400 stores and approximately half of those will be within a range close enough to the facility to receive daily replenishment.
We do -- or actually have quite a bit of work on what the lift will be.
And it's a good change as it improves the availability of those stores.
Quite frankly in a fleet of 3 700 stores changing 200 to a better availability will have a somewhat of a modest impact on the overall company.
Yet as that program rolls out then it would be a more pronounced impact on the company as a whole.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And my second question is what is the appetite to potentially take your leverage ratio beyond the 2.5x guardrail if you saw opportunities either on the acquisition front or the ability to accelerate the pace of new distribution center openings to really improve the positioning of the business over the long term? Yes Mike.
We have at this particular point in time no appetite to take our adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio above 2.5x.
And we believe actually we can grow our business and do the things that Darren talked about and Kevin talked about and operate our business and grow our business and make the investments in our strategic initiatives and keep within that.
So -- but at this particular time we have no plans to do that.
Yes.
And Mike you would say that -- Mike you asked the question about our daily replenishment centers.
Maybe to put that a little bit more into context in order to make those things happen you have to replace warehouse management systems and that's complete.
We've got to open the first one and honestly work the bugs out.
These are complex centers.
We're excited about what we see right now in terms of how that center's operating in terms of the phase that we're in.
And I would say this is that we have absolutely capital and cash.
If that proves to be what we believe it will prove to be we are not constrained both in terms of dollars and leverage ratio to go a lot faster on that.
What we are doing and we think it's responsible is that we certainly want to work the bugs out on it because if you speed in this area and the supply chain pays the price.
3 600 stores pay the price.
And so you shouldn't read anything into our comments that we will be timid in terms of our ability to invest in the business provided and I'm confident the teams will figure this out we get the results.
Our next question comes from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Mike I think maybe just to become a little bit more direct on the buyback issue.
I understand your response on looking for reinvestment opportunities.
I understand that you use a conservative DCF model to determine when to buy back shares.
But we're also looking at the company running with $400 million more cash than a year ago; stocks off about what 27% from its peak; free cash flow yields up to about 10% now.
But I guess the bottom line is what are we waiting for? Yes so Dan the good news is you listen to our pre-remarks and you understand our philosophy hasn't changed in that our first priority with capital -- and Darren said it is to invest and grow in the business.
And quite frankly that's where we prioritize and quite frankly we're not growing at our level of expectation at this particular point in time.
So the balance of the year we're focused on reversing the trends.
We're going to continue to invest in the business and generate positive comps.
And buybacks don't create sales.
So the -- I think the most important thing is we believe that investing in the business and growing our business is what creates long-term value and buybacks also show our confidence in doing that.
And we've done them over the last few years.
Since 2004 we bought back about 41% of the company at an average price of $43.
So we think that has created good value.
However it doesn't create sales.
And I think the most important thing is is that we get the question a lot.
And we're focused on creating long-term value not short-term earnings.
And we also take it very seriously about what we're going to do with the cash.
So I think to Greg's question and to some of the questions earlier what you're going to do with the cash we typically don't talk about that.
We don't talk about buybacks before we do them.
We don't talk about the other things before we do them.
But just know that this management team takes very seriously what we do with the cash.
And whatever we do do with that cash we'll make sure that we get a good return and we drive long-term value.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a just question about CARQUEST Darren speculation that its ownership may change hands.
Can you remind us the difference in CARQUEST's position in the commercial market relative to Advance and AI? And also if there are certain potential buyers that would create more of an issue more of a headwind for Advance than other potential buyers? Yes.
Dan I'm going to just start first.
First of all we don't comment on specific opportunities that may exist out in the marketplace.
And Darren -- if Darren if you want to give a few insights to his question around comparisons.
Yes.
Dan both your questions are understandable and I understand why you're asking them.
And I would say this is that -- the following.
We -- the market right now as you know there was another public company that was out there for sale that was sold and then put back.
And so there are things shifting in the marketplace right now.
Part of that is that who knows? I couldn't speculate at this point whether CARQUEST gets sold or not or it doesn't get sold.
I can't speculate who buys them or who doesn't buy them.
The most recent evidence we do have is one of the companies in our industry got sold and then it was unsold.
And so I think we'll have to watch how that plays out versus at this point us speculating as to what the outcome will be.
No doubt that as you know and you've watched this industry longer than most.
I mean it is a B2B WD model.
And you know what? That may be attractive to some and it may not be attractive to some.
So instead of trying to lead you down a path of speculation I think we'll all sit back and see how that unfolds over time.
Our next question comes from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have one follow-up on capital allocation and then another on traffic.
First of all on capital you spoke about reinvesting in the business.
If you think about the level of CapEx for this year but also the prospective level CapEx going forward given expansion and any other reinvestment that you're contemplating could we think about a hike in aggregate capital expenditures from your prior run rate or prior thought process? Yes on that.
I think what we said in our outlook is that we're going to be spending this year $275 million to $300 million and we still believe we're going to be in that range.
The big areas that we're investing in capital this year obviously first and foremost in terms of growth is our NSOs [ph].
That's one big pocket.
And the maintenance that goes into maintaining those.
The second pocket is supply chain.
Kevin's been really clear around it.
And we're very excited about the Remington facility and the daily replenishment test that we're going to be doing.
I think it's going to be a fantastic opportunity.
And the first one is always more expensive so that's a big part of our capital.
And then the third area obviously is IT IT and our systems.
Kevin's talked about some of the -- our electronic parts catalog and that's going to be a fantastic tool for our teams in our stores to enable them to serve our customers faster.
So those are the 3 big pockets.
Darren did talk about well as we look out we haven't given an outlook for the out years.
But just to be clear we're going to continue to invest in Commercial we're going to continue to invest in availability we're going to continue to invest in supply chain and we're going to continue to invest in those parts that will grow our business.
So -- but I can't comment at this particular point in time as to whether we're going to increase that.
But we're comfortable with the capital at this particular juncture.
Research Division</strong> And...
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Sorry.
Matt I was going to say if you look back 2 years ago we -- it was roughly a $200 million run rate.
We've taken it up last year.
It was $300 million again this year principally supply chain driven.
I mean next year you can infer from our comments taking our store count from 125 to closer to 200.
That will drive it up.
The other thing that we've been spending capital on quite frankly is our acquisition of and MotorLogic [ph] and DriverSide.
And the other piece of capital though it runs through working capital is commercial credit.
And so again we're trying to stay on strategy and unfortunately strategy and financial results and 90-day windows are 180-day window as we're trying to take that next step in terms of capabilities daily replenishment commercial credit diagnostic tools.
In the fall of this year we'll begin the process of our new electronic parts catalog being rolled out for our stores in order to enable the commercial sales as well as retail hard parts sales to be able -- to be affected in a more customer friendly but more team member friendly way.
And those all sit in the capital buckets.
Usually about the back half of this year we get even more precise as to what the dollars are.
So I agree with Mike we're not going to give you a forecast now.
But we're in that in-between period where many of the larger investments that are positioned to grow I would say our position in Commercial with a larger base and larger customers we're in that transition to the capabilities.
I think we just started in July with internal credit on our own books.
We start in October this year shipping daily replenishment.
We wish it would go faster and the teams are working their tails off to make it go faster.
As that comes through it informs just how fast we can go and then they'll get translated into dollars and projects with the team going forward.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up I assure that I ask you this question in the spirit of your intro with a long-term focus in mind.
The last big buyback push from the company was late 2010 or early 2011.
And you bought back a lot of stock in the low to mid-60s and you've been smarter than most about thinking about intrinsic value and picking the right spots.
Is there any reason to think that your view of the intrinsic value of the business has changed over the last 12 to 18 months as we think about at what levels this might be too good of an investment for you to pass up? No.
No Matt.
Not at all.
Our next question comes from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon on for Peter.
You guys have done a great job stabilizing shrink now this quarter and had just turned it into a benefit.
Based on what you lost in shrink in the last 3 quarters of last year do you think you're going to be able to recapture that in the second half of this year? Yes it's Mike.
Yes I want to really compliment our teams on what we've done with our shrink trends.
And the answer to that is yes.
Our trajectory that we were on last year was going in the wrong direction.
We've reversed that and we're going to get back.
And by the end of this year we'll be almost to those levels that we were at prior to our decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as my follow-up as we think about your Remington distribution center and the margin impacts for both the remainder of fiscal '12 and then going into fiscal '13 should we be assuming a drag to margin now for the -- continue to assume a drag to margin in the second half and then margin expansion in 2013? Yes this is Kevin.
We've had leverage essentially coming from the supply chain this year and it's through predominantly efficiencies that we've been driving through the centers and some smart decisions that we made on forward purchases of fuel.
As we turn the distribution center on obviously the investments that we've made begin to depreciate.
But we'll begin to operate the facility.
But the actual operating cost to the facility are lower than any of our other centers.
So it's actually a significant change in the way that we're operating the level of automation that we've put into the center.
So essentially we get a headwind and a tailwind at the same time.
I think when it's all said and done we'll see a relatively muted impact of that from a margin perspective.
And predominantly what we'll see is an impact on sales.
And our final question comes from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
In the prepared remarks you talked about your pricing position in the second quarter.
And I guess my question is really sort of what the promotional environment is looking like right now and whether the comment was a positive or negative pricing position relative to peers.
Yes this is Kevin.
We essentially keep our ear to the ground on DIY and Commercial prices every day of the week.
And we try to manage in a very tight range of plus or minus 1% of the prevailing prices in the market and we -- we're benchmarking all of our key competitors.
I would -- as we got into the second quarter in that plus or minus 1% range to be honest we've managed the low end of that range purposely.
As we were hitting tough sales we wanted to make sure that it was not being driven by being improperly priced in the market.
And it would be our intention to stay in that position until such point as the sales turn around.
So I think what you're seeing in our numbers is in fact what you would likely see in the quarters ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up.
On the Commercial pricing as a couple of these large players become a bigger piece of your Commercial business is there price deflation? As they wield that clout are you seeing some compression in Commercial pricing through those contracts? Yes Bret a -- to build on Kevin's point but specifically to answer that one as you build more national accounts of course those come with -- they come with both lower margin rates but the truth is they come with greater consistency and growth in the margin dollars for sure.
So as we grow that there will be and there has been for 4 straight years just more pressure in our business inherently because Commercial gross margins are lower.
So I think to your -- just to put an exclamation point or a period on your other question when we look at our performance in Q1 to Q2 in terms of the deceleration in our business what we really saw is that if you broke it down into 2 things really 3 quarters of the deceleration in our comps came from ticket.
And in that ticket you can see both the combination of -- and you would expect this from us that we saw lower transactions.
We certainly went out and I would say used more promotional vehicles in terms of radio and in terms of direct mail in order to drive traffic in our stores.
That's what you do in these times.
And what we also saw is a consumer trading down in certain categories of the business.
I think that reflects some of the economics.
And so as we look out we continue our -- to kind of just manage and assess that balance between driving the promotional activities traffic into our stores traffic to the Commercial accounts and that balance with ticket in the back half of the year.
And you know what? That's how you go back and just fight to get the business back.
Research Division</strong> As you look at -- and to this -- not really a third question I guess responding to that.
As you look at your online pricing which is pretty aggressive is that compounding the ticket compression because people are buying online they're picking up in-store and they're getting what is running sort of like a 20% discount from the online ticket? Yes this is Kevin.
We do have a more promotional stance online.
It's more similar to what we do through our direct mail program.
So those 2 are relatively aligned.
And the honest answer is the -- while that business has grown very large percentages over the past several years it is a very small part of our business today and not large enough to materially move the company's gross margin.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn the call back over to Joshua.
Thank you Shirley.
And thanks to our team for participating in our second quarter earnings conference call.
Any additional questions please call me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
Thanks again to our audience and that concludes our call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]  And today's call is being recorded.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Director of Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor Provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intent will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
Also I'd like to remind you that it is our company's policy to not comment on rumors and/or speculation and we continue to follow that policy throughout this call.
For planning purposes our fourth quarter earnings release is scheduled for February 7 2013 before market open and our quarterly conference call scheduled for the morning of Thursday February 7 2013.
To be notified of the future dates of our earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Before I begin I'd like to thank our 54 000 team members for their hard work and focus on delivering great customer service.
Their determination provided us much-needed momentum during the quarter.
As you've seen in our earnings release and as we indicated in our prerelease last month our business and industry continues to face weak consumer demand in both DIY and Commercial.
Additionally we continue to be impacted by varied geographic performance with softer sales performance in our cold weather markets.
Consumers still face high gas prices which increased $0.49 a gallon since July and averaged $3.73 a gallon during the quarter.
We believe this volatility in higher fuel costs definitely played a role in consumer behavior and spending in the quarter.
As we stated in our second quarter call we anticipated that the market would be challenging and that demand would continue to be weak.
However our focus has been to improve our sales trajectory in the face of near-term decelerating trends in our industry.
As a result of these efforts our comparable store sales accelerated nearly 100 basis points from the second quarter to the third.
Our quarter-over-quarter improvement was principally driven by our Commercial Business with accelerating comp sales growth each period during the quarter for our Advance stores.
Our Commercial business had improving trends in both transactions and ticket.
Our third quarter transaction growth sequentially improved throughout the quarter.
While our average ticket in Commercials still faced declines year-over-year the decline was more moderate versus our second quarter.
Similar to our second quarter the average ticket decline was principally driven by a mix of products sold namely the impact of weaker maintenance category sales and higher promotions.
Further impacting the average ticket has been lower inflation in some key seasonal categories like AC in the absence of escalating oil prices.
From a geographical perspective we continue to see weakness and volatility in our cold weather markets especially in the Great Lakes and the Northeast regions.
Our performance in those 2 markets continues to be impacted by the lingering effects of last year's warmer weather -- let's say this year's warmer weather.
Our comparable store sales declines continue to trail our total company average by several hundred basis points.
However we've seen our comps accelerate in the Northeast roughly 300 basis points from the second quarter and by nearly 130 basis points in the Great Lakes.
This is very encouraging and is a testament to the will and determination of our teams operating in those areas.
We continue to post positive comps in our Western markets where we only have 10% of our store base.
Despite the improvements in our business during the quarter our comp store sales decreased 1.8%.
We believe that the industry will remain soft for the balance of the year.
However we believe we will continue to carry our momentum from the third quarter into Q4 provided we see a reasonable bounce back from the effects of Hurricane Sandy.
The improvements we've made in the second quarter came with a cost.
Our result to work to deliver higher results than our trends suggested as we exited Q2 compelled us to increase the customer facing and traffic-driving elements in our business.
This included increased labor and advertising expense as well as more targeted promotions.
Our increase in labor was focused on providing better service levels to our Commercial customers and coverage during the weekends were we have significant opportunity to better serve our customers.
We invested in labor to position us to get back to positive comps.
Our advertising spend was focused on driving our battery business in anticipation of increased demand as a result of record heat this summer which we expect to be a catalyst for demand over the next 6 months.
Our battery sales performance was very strong with roughly 200 basis points of comp acceleration from Q2 to Q3.
As a result of increased spending to improve our trends our operating income decreased $27.5 million to $150.4 million.
Clearly this was lower than we planned.
As our full year outlook suggests we will adjust our costs in the fourth quarter to more closely align with the previous planned spend profile.
As I previously mentioned we made specific investments in the quarter to position us to capitalize on the underlying fundamentals of our industry which remained positive.
Our focus will continue to be to provide our customers with reliable service increased delivery speed and superior availability which has propelled our Commercial gain and is critical to our DIY success.
Our investments and priorities have been centered on those outcomes.
Our progress on our initiatives this year will provide us with momentum for the future.
The mission-critical outcomes in the third quarter included completing the in-sourcing of our commercial credit program shipping from our new distribution center of Remington Indiana and the expansion into the boroughs of New York.
In closing I want to share a story about Jim Nevins [ph] a commercial parts pro in Dacula Georgia.
Jim is a shining example of how we're striving to consistently deliver fast reliable service to our Commercial customers.
Jim is more than just dedicated.
He truly takes ownership and is fully invested in helping his customers be successful.
Having managed a shop himself he understands that relationships create a 2-way street.
His general manager says that Jim creates true value for his customers and for the advanced brand.
He sees no obstacles when locating what his customers need.
He only sees challenges.
Jim not only finds satisfaction from accomplishing the feat at hand he finds an even greater reward when he knows that he has solved someone's problem and has helped that individual to be successful.
He uses every resource available from the Internet to local suppliers to make sure our customers are satisfied.
Jim's customers know the quality of his service and his ability to find anything they need.
Jim's dedication to Advance and to his customers is truly inspiring.
His drive and unwillingness to accept failure differentiates his level of service from the competition.
Jim thanks and keep up the great work.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer.
Kevin? Thanks Darren and good morning.
I'd also like to thank the team for their hard work in the third quarter.
I'll provide updates on the work that occurred during the quarter as well as update you on our initiatives to support our superior availability strategy and new store growth.
Despite the current softness in some of our major markets we operate in we continue to focus on providing our customers with the best end market availability and consistency of service both in order accuracy and delivery speed.
As I'll share with you our focus continues to be on the expansion of our hub network the continuous upgrade of our parts in our non-hub stores the opening of our new DC and the implementation of our daily replenishment capability and the continued growth and rollout of our B2C and B2B e-commerce platforms commercial diagnostic tool and our electronics part catalog.
During the quarter we continue to expand our hub network through new store expansion in the upgraded existing stores which are strategically positioned to operate as a hub.
Our focus continues to be on strengthening our availability of both maintenance and failure parts as demand for these products will increase as the average age of vehicle increases.
During the quarter we added 8 additional hub stores bringing our hub store count to 328 versus 288 at the end of the third quarter last year.
We also upgraded inventory at 363 non-hub stores during the quarter.
As scheduled we've begun our first outbound shipments in September from our new distribution center in Remington Indiana.
As I mentioned before we're very excited about this new facility as it will be used for a model for our future in terms of automation which will greatly improve our productivity and allow us to replenish our stores daily.
This new facility will ship product to our stores in phases ramping up to over 400 stores next year and provide daily replenishment to over 200 stores.
The initial results at Remington have been good and we're achieving our rollout plans.
Although we're very early in the process we're extremely excited about the prospects and will continue to work aggressively to ensure we get the planned benefits.
As a result of these upgrades and opening of our new distribution center our total inventory increased 4% to roughly $2.2 billion.
We anticipate our total inventory will continue to grow over time as we focus on increasing the breadth of our parts assortment and improving our positioning with larger Commercial customers.
At the same time we continue to work aggressively to free up capital to fund other parts of our business through our supply chain financing program.
As a result of that work we continue to expand our accounts payable to inventory ratio which increased roughly 803 basis points from 75.2% at the end of the third quarter last year to 83.2% this year.
As a direct result we've reduced our own inventory by nearly 30% a decrease of $155.5 million from $523.7 million to $368.2 million.
Turning to e-commerce.
We continue to focus on growing our business through expanded penetration of our B2B capabilities to our Commercial customers.
We've rolled out our B2B online ordering capabilities and we expect to continue to increase the B2B penetration over time.
This will allow us to increase both the frequency and retention rate of our Commercial customers who utilize this capability.
Additionally we continue to broaden our ability to provide more value-added services to our Commercial customers through MotoLogic our shop diagnostic capability and DriverSide which allows us to provide services aimed at helping our Commercial -- our customers grow their business.
These capabilities will allow us to be a much stronger partner for our customers and make it easier and more compelling to them to do business with us.
Finally with respect to e-commerce we continue to make great progress with our B2C site and I'm proud to announce that we now have the #1 multichannel site in the markets we serve.
This is a great feat and reflective of the team's hard work and strength of our brand and online capability.
We will continue to enhance our mobile commerce business and increase the level of convenience for our DIY customers.
We continue to focus on our new store opening strategy with an emphasis of building out more commercially oriented stores and expanding in markets within our current footprint that remain under penetrated.
During the third quarter we opened 35 stores including 7 Autopart International stores.
Year-to-date we've opened 70 stores including 13 Autopart International stores and closed 5.
As of October 6 2012 our total store count was 3 727 including 210 Autopart International stores.
Our class of new stores continues to perform very well and is proving to be our most successful class in terms of sales productivity and the pace of their weekly sales ramp.
Additionally we began opening our first stores within New York City and anticipate opening roughly 18 stores in New York City this year.
The entry into this very large market is an important milestone for us.
For the year we remain on pace to open approximately 120 to 140 stores including the expected addition of roughly 65 stores in Q4 and are building our pipeline that allow us to open approximately 180 to 200 stores next year.
Finally we focused on reversing our decelerating sales trends and as a result strengthened our competitive pricing position and increased our promotional activity during the quarter.
However our gross profit rate increased 31 basis points to 49.8% versus 49.5% during the third quarter of 2011.
The increase was driven by our continued efforts to improve our shrink cost deflation and supply chain efficiencies partially offset by increased promotional activity during the quarter.
Year-to-date our growth -- gross profit rate was 49.9% which is essentially flat during the same period in fiscal 2011.
We will still remain on track to modestly improve our gross profit rate for the year.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers as we navigated through a challenging third quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning.
One provide some financial highlights from our third quarter of 2012; two put our third quarter and year-to-date results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three share with you what we see for the remainder of 2012 and insights into how we are thinking about 2013.
As we shared in our October 22 prerelease of our preliminary financial results our third quarter performance continued to reflect ongoing softness in our colder winter markets driven by the lingering impact of this year's milder winter.
In addition our tough economic environment continues to impact consumer demand for auto parts as evidenced by softness in both our maintenance and failure categories.
While sales trends improved from our second to third quarter we did not achieve our profitability expectations.
Our profitability shortfall was driven by deliberate decisions to improve sales trends and position the business to capitalize on the solid industry fundamentals we see.
We targeted areas such as store labor and seasonal advertising to get back to positive comps sales growth and improve our market share.
We also stayed the course with our planned investments in areas such as Remington DC and commercial credit in-sourcing launches inventory upgrades and more aggressive store opening plans including our new market entry into New York City which is part of our new store opening plan in the fourth quarter.
While we did not achieve internal expectations we were encouraged by our sales improvement from our second to third quarter primarily driven by improvements in our Commercial comps and the fact that we were able to accelerate our sales performance while the industry decelerated from the second to third quarter.
Our decision to trade off profitability in the short term is driven by our confidence in the industry fundamentals and ensuring we position the company for 2013 with momentum as we expect a more normal winter.
Third quarter sales decreased 0.5% to nearly $1.5 billion driven by our comp store sales decrease of 1.8% partially offset by the net addition of 82 new stores over the past 12 months.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 0.7% to $4.9 billion and our Comp store sales decreased 0.5%.
As Kevin mentioned our third quarter gross profit rate increased 31 basis points to 49.8% versus 49.5% in the third quarter of 2011.
The increase was primarily driven by improvements in shrink cost deflation and supply chain expenses due to labor productivity partially offset by an increase in promotional activity.
Year-to-date our Commercial mix represented 38.2% of our 2012 sales versus 37.1% in Q3 of 2011.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate is flat to last year.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 39.4% increased 213 basis points versus the third quarter of 2011 primarily due to increased spending on in-store labor and advertising and expense deleverage as a result of our 1.8% comp store sales decline.
Year-to-date our SG&amp;A rate increased 25 basis points to 38.8% versus 38.5% over the same period last year.
I outlined the principal drivers of the SG&amp;A change earlier in my comments.
All in our third quarter operating income dollars decreased 15.4% and our operating income rate decreased 182 basis points to 10.3%.
Our diluted EPS decreased 14.2% to $1.21 versus $1.41 last year.
Year-to-date our operating income dollars decreased 1.6% to $544.1 million and our diluted EPS increased 3.6% to $4.34.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $298.6 million down $56.2 million over the same period last year.
The largest driver of the decrease in free cash flow was an increase in our accounts receivable as a result of our in-sourcing of our commercial credit program.
As Kevin mentioned our owned inventory decreased 29.7% from third quarter 2011 driven by our continued efforts to increase our accounts payable inventory ratio which now stands at 83.2% versus 75.2% in the third quarter of 2011.
At the end of the third quarter we had $479.4 million in cash and $600.2 million of long-term debt on our balance sheet.
Our adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.2x which is well below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
Our average diluted share count was 74.1 million shares at the end of the third quarter.
As we've mentioned our industry continues to face weaker consumer demand and softness in the colder weather markets both of which are impacting our results and contributing to the overall industry deceleration.
However we believe these dynamics are not indicative of a longer-term market slowdown.
Specifically the deferred maintenance reached a record $68 billion according to the most recent industry data.
We believe the industry fundamentals remains solid and are encouraged by our team's ability to improve our sales trends from the second quarter.
We continue to measure our performance through the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
As we have consistently communicated we prioritized growth as our primary use of capital to increase shareholder value which includes investing in strategic initiatives to improve our performance and looking for future growth opportunities.
Accordingly there will be periods of time when we preserve capital as we assess sales growth opportunities to create value for our business and shareholders.
Over the past few quarters we have been assessing some sales growth opportunities.
At the end of our third quarter we had roughly $500 million left under our share repurchase authorization and we plan to continue our historical practice of opportunistically repurchasing shares in a disciplined manner over time.
Turning to profit.
We remain committed to improving our profitability which requires both delivering on our sales growth goals primarily driven by Commercial and continuing on our journey to develop a more cost competitive operating model.
Improving our profitability requires that we do both.
Given the softness in our top line and our deliberate decisions to increase customer traffic with increased advertising and labor in the short term our profitability growth has been constrained.
We are not satisfied with these results and remain committed to improving our profit model by continuing to invest in both Commercial and availability to drive the top line while more effectively managing our cost structure.
As we looked at value creation we continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 18.9%.
ROIC increased modestly from our third quarter last year driven by efforts to decrease our owned inventory despite increasing our average inventory per store.
Our AP ratio at the end of the third quarter was a record 83.2% and we remain focused on achieving an AP ratio of 100% over time.
Turning to the balance of the year.
We anticipate that the environment will continue to be challenging with our cold weather markets still underperforming our total company average comp store sales by several hundred basis points.
Additionally I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter is our lowest volume and most volatile quarter as we compete with holiday shopping season and lower demand for parts.
We continue to expect our annual comp store sales to be slightly down for 2012 and anticipate that our gross profit rate will improve modestly for the full year.
While we expect to see a more normal winter this will show up in the first half of next year and therefore we expect our cost to deleverage during our fourth quarter given the expected sales decline.
We will continue to adjust our variable costs to business trends but plan to invest in our strategic areas such as Commercial and availability to our previously planned levels so we position ourselves with momentum for 2013.
As a result we continue to expect our SG&amp;A per store to be down 1% to 2% for 2012.
As a result of our third quarter earnings performance and what we see for the fourth quarter we anticipate our annual 2012 EPS to be in the range of $5.05 to $5.15 per share.
As we look to 2013 we will continue to build on our growth and profit successes over the past 5 years.
We expect industry dynamics to remain favorable as a result of the continued increase in the average age of vehicles and the continued increase in the number of vehicles greater than 7 years old.
We anticipate a return to more normal weather patterns and expect our top line growth to be driven by stronger Commercial comps continued improvements in our availability and an accelerated pace of new store growth in the range of 180 to 200 stores.
We expect to improve our profitability driven by a modest improvement in our gross profit rate and through reductions in our SG&amp;A through our continued focus on building a more competitive cost structure and by leveraging a better top line.
We will provide a more detailed 2013 annual outlook on our fourth quarter earnings call.
In closing we were disappointed we did not deliver the financial results we expected in our third quarter.
We are also realistic about the challenging environment and the short-term impact it is having on our business.
We believe the current industry softness will continue to put short-term pressure on our fourth quarter earnings.
We remain committed and focused on our strategies and we have confidence in our team's ability to improve our performance.
As they have shown many times when faced with adversity they always respond with character resiliency and a competitive spirit.
Before I turn the call over for Q&amp;A I'd like to make one final comment.
I am sure you have seen recent press reports about our company.
I would like to repeat Joshua's comments and remind you that it is our company policy to not comment on rumors and/or speculation.
And we will continue to follow that policy as we address your questions.
We will be happy to answer your questions regarding our business operations strategic initiatives and financial results.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I believe in your comments there and you mentioned that you expect to carry momentum from the third quarter into fourth quarter.
When you talk about that is that something that you've seen already? And when you think about momentum is that the sort of 100 bp improvement that you saw from the third quarter to second quarter? Yes Greg.
You were cutting in and out.
I think what your question was our comment on business as we went throughout the third quarter as we saw sequential improvement each period in our Advance stores particularly in our Commercial business.
And our glimpse coming into the quarter as we expected that to happen I said in my prepared remarks inevitably Hurricane Sandy which impacted about 400 stores now we're up and running in all but 2 today certainly gave us a little bit of a setback.
What we've seen before is that as FEMA money comes in and insurance money comes in that tends to bounce back.
Now the Northeaster was a little bumpy too.
So we think if that settles out those trends will continue throughout the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And I'm very hopeful this is better.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So that when you talk about momentum you're talking about that 100 bp improvement that you saw in the third quarter.
You think you can have a similar improvement into the fourth? Yes we didn't quantify it exactly 100 basis points.
But what you should have taken away from it is that period in period out we're seeing improvement in each period.
And as we entered we would expect that to occur in the fourth quarter too.
Whether it turns out to be 100 basis points we'll see at the end of the third quarter.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Darren over the years you and other CEOs in your industry have talked about the rational competitive environment.
And the fact that promotional pricing doesn't drive demand for auto parts that's driven by failure rates.
Curious as to why you now think that promotional pricing could make a change in demand and whether the elasticity turned out to be what you thought it would be? Yes Dan.
This is Kevin.
Essentially as we were trying to improve performance we were looking at various elements of our business that do in fact respond to price.
We have a fairly material direct mail program and the offers that are in those programs vary from period to period based on expectations.
And we took a more aggressive posture in the quarter and got material results or noticeable results.
And is that what the general DIY consumer reacts to? No.
But there are price sensitive or price-conscious customers that do respond and we are able to tailor the mailings accordingly.
On the Commercial side again it's -- if you look at the customer response price does not show up at the top of the list.
But there is some level especially on the chemicals business that we provide in or shop supplies other than the fact our -- have always been relatively promotional.
And we leaned into some of those areas.
I don't know that our general belief on the industry has changed.
But in an effort to essentially turn the business around we adopted a posture in the quarter that's leaned more into some of those categories.
Yes Dan.
Maybe to build on Kevin's point.
I would say that part of our research tells us today when we look back 5 years ago I think it was roughly 20% of our DIY customers started out online in terms of their shopping experience.
Today what it tells us in more recent research is 55% to 60% of those customers are really starting out -- starting online to understand parts availability price location.
And in that same research 5 years ago price was still in the top 5 but it might have been #5.
Today price has moved to #1.
And so that doesn't necessarily mean we put everything on sale.
But I think we're more targeted as Mike said in his prepared remarks.
Deferred maintenance we were at AAPEX last week and it was ASA said that number had risen to a record level of $68 billion now.
What it says to me is that we have maintenance building.
And to Kevin's point this quarter we targeted things like batteries.
It's intuitive given the heat that we had over the summer and even in the quarter.
As we go into the fourth quarter and the first half of next year increasing our awareness not necessarily taking down the price is going to be critical in terms of driving out some of that future traffic in the business.
And also targeting certain parts of the business as Kevin said before in those deferred maintenance categories just spurs some demand.
So it's not a fundamental shift.
But I think it is a recognition that we have maintenance building in the system and we want to be on the front end of some of that awareness and traffic driving.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up.
We estimate during the quarter that Advance needed about a 3.9% comp sales gain for the company to maintain a flat expense rate.
And the hurdle point is the highest since the first quarter of 2011.
The past year you've indicated that the next 200 basis points of operating margin improvement for Advance would come from expense leverage.
Do you still think that's the case? Or are we going to be coming -- and a lot more reliant now on sales growth rather than expense cuts to drive future margin -- operating margin gains? Hey Dan.
It's Mike.
I think it's both.
So first of all obviously our goal is to continue to grow our business.
So when you grow your business you're able to leverage that top line.
So that will always be a priority of ours.
You need to look within the components of what happened in our SG&amp;A.
Actually our SG&amp;A per store fell 1.7% on a trailing 12-month basis.
And if I gave you the breakout of the components I think it will be easier for you to understand.
So 25% of that basis points deleverage was just from fixed costs deleverage of things like rent and depreciation the fixed cost structure.
25% was from us growing our stores.
So obviously we opened up 35 stores.
We're going to have one of our largest store openings in the fourth quarter this -- as we look to the fourth quarter about 65 stores.
And then another 25% of that deleverage was caused by us maintaining our investment profile Remington our credit in-sourcing that Darren talked about our hubs our inventory upgrades as we position ourselves for the future.
Because we believe the fundamentals are good [indiscernible] We get a more normalized winter we would expect the business to come back our east business to rebound.
And then the last 25% and I said it in our remarks is deliberate decisions we made to actually change the trajectory of our sales.
So if you look at our sales from Q2 to Q3 they actually accelerated in terms of they got better a minus 2.7 to minus 1.8.
If you actually look at the industry the industry got a little bit worse.
So we invested a little bit more dollars in labor as Kevin said seasonal advertising.
And we think we changed the trajectory to the industry but our view hasn't changed.
Obviously we need to improve our profit model but that will be both on the top line and the bottom line.
Our next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question -- my first question my follow-up relate to your spending.
So you put a lot of money back into the business here in the third quarter.
If you look at the incremental spending relative to initial Street expectations and our own and you look at the incremental sales to emerge relative to expectations relative to last quarter I guess those sales are pretty costly to come by.
And obviously it's not the optimal environment to reap a return on that investment.
How do you think about the financial return on this reinvestment of the business and marketing and labor et cetera? What are the parameters that you used to decide whether frankly they're justified? And then the follow-up question just to get it in your spending per store this quarter was up about 3%.
Obviously that's different from the trajectory that you're implying for the rest of the year and presumably for your algorithm going forward.
So how should we contextualize that spending level? Yes Matt.
I'll give you kind of high level and Mike will give you some of the details.
So when we went in to this quarter a way to contextualize it is we came out at Q2 a minus 2.7 comp.
I think we said to everyone on the call that what we're going to focus on if you think about a Commercial business in particular is our in-store labor.
I think for the quarter our comp labor hours were up a little over 1% and those related to service levels.
And when I look at our comp stores and comp transactions in our Commercial Business again they were up low-single digit.
It's actually improved off of the Q2 trends.
And that's actually us doing more business building relationships with those commercial shops.
And those things I don't think get measured in the period or they get measured necessarily in the quarter because those commercial shops are going to start doing business again in terms of that $68 billion.
In order to get that done we get 338 upgrades in the quarter is my recollection in terms of inventory added to our hub stores.
In particular took advantage of the 22 stores that we didn't plan to acquire in New York in the quarter as well and opened Remington which put some pressure on those numbers.
And for our business the way I thought about it is that absent making those investments one can make an argument instead of doing a minus 2.7 comp trajectory would have taken you to a minus 4.
So there is almost a 220 basis points pickup in terms of comp store sales trend relative to the trends that were out there.
And so part of the business I would say you got to make a choice as to how you want to get that profitability and rebuild momentum.
I fundamentally believe that part of the decision we made if you go back a year ago I think we had our best expense leverage numbers since we were here in Q3.
So I made a choice and I made the choice to reestablish sales momentum.
I made a choice in terms of the advertising principally around battery and failure parts.
Because it's going to come.
I mean I said this on the last conference call in 2008 we are in a similar third quarter situation and we were all wondering why the business went flat.
And then 2 quarters later we were all high fiving because the comps were approaching numbers that were closer to 10.
And I think that's how this business can turn on and turn off over time.
I think the key is to be positioned for when it's going to turn on again because the reality is those cars are still old.
It's the categories in maintenance which are giving us fits at this moment in time.
But eventually maintenance becomes failure if you don't take care of it.
And so that's what we saw in the quarter in terms of how we think about it.
Those things will pay back over time for sure.
It's just it may not necessarily pay back in a 90-day window.
Yes and Matt your comment we don't comment about SG&amp;A within the quarter.
Obviously we report out on it but we don't think about it that way.
And the reason is so when I broke out previously in the last question the breakout of our SG&amp;A.
So when the sales come back that fixed costs deleverage will take care of itself.
The 25% of that deleverage the came from stores as Darren says I mean we're investing in stores today that are going to pay as we look out into the future.
So we haven't seen any returns from those stores.
And then the -- our investment profile in Remington I mean Kevin has talked about this.
It's in our remarks.
I mean it's one of the most exciting things we got going in our company this daily replenishment capability we have.
Again we haven't seen any of the benefits of that our in-Store credits our hubs our inventory upgrades.
So 3 quarters of deleverage is all kind of -- it will either take care of itself or it will pay back in the future.
And I think Darren talked about the last 25% where the deliberate decisions we made we think we changed the trajectory of the business and built some momentum.
Our next question is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just following up a little bit on that.
It seems like there was a little bit of a change where last year you were more focused on the expense savings.
And then somewhere along the way Darren you looked or the whole company looked and said "Hey we need to make these investments because there's all this  deferred maintenance and there's all this opportunity." And you obviously have the investment in Remington and now more SG&amp;A to set yourself up for the future.
What caused the change? Like what was the strategic decision that kind of say "Hey we're -- maybe we're being too tight on expenses." Or how did you change? Could you walk us through kind of how you're thinking? Yes Gary.
So over the last 4 years as you followed the story in terms of our transition to a 50-50 model Commercial and DIY routinely we used to speak about it in terms of the table stakes in the industry which was first getting the right brands in our store getting the parts pros getting the trucks building a sales force and even getting a website up and being able to do business in terms of B2B business.
And call that the table stakes here of our business.
Today we have more I would say insight and clarity as to the next step of our journey.
That step of our journey took us from roughly 400 000 a program to 640 000 a program.
But we can see and we've talked about this before is we probably got about 1.2 million of potential that sits around our stores today in terms of Commercial potential.
And that 1.2 million we're going to have to be more focused in terms of the customers that we go after.
And there's no doubt given parts proliferation and you just take import parts for example it's going to require more investments in those SKUs.
And those customers are quite frankly they have more choices.
There's more competition in the space.
That's not a surprise.
So what we're going to have to do is invest in things like commercial credit.
We always knew that we would have to make that investment.
As Mike said earlier that's a 50% penetration business for us today.
Most in the industry are closer to 90%.
We find in order to do business with a larger garages and that's the majority of the business we do today we're going to have to target our capabilities hence bring in-sourcing of credit.
Remington which we just opened that facility sat vacant.
It was built before this management team got there.
Through productivity we were able to keep it vacant.
So when we actually had to finish completing it we saw opportunities given tests that we were doing in daily replenishment to actually put a daily replenishment capability.
And we think that will allow us to better serve those larger garages going forward.
The other thing that we talked about in terms of targeting our capabilities going forward is that we spent probably a modest amount of time Gary in terms of the national and some of the regional accounts.
As we position for the future our first step was take your the customers closest to our store.
The next step of our journey is that we unlike some of our competitors we don't have a heavy-duty business.
We don't have a fleet business.
We don't a government business and we're probably underdeveloped a little bit in terms of national regional accounts.
And we're beginning to put a focus in those areas.
And as a part of that focus that is going to have to require us to thoughtfully -- because despite all of that investment in capabilities as Mike said we're still going to be down nearly 2% in terms of SG&amp;A per store.
But we're funneling where we are investing to position us how do we get from 640 a program closer to that $1 million a program going forward? And I think when you -- businesses that they don't grow in a linear fashion.
I think you have to step through them as we did.
Our first 10 years were $1 billion.
The last 4 years we added another $1 billion.
That next $1 billion that comes after that is going to be targeting that against different segments of business and different customers that quite frankly have higher standards.
Hey Gary just to put some numbers to what Darren just said.
First of all I'll start by saying we have not changed our focus on improving our profit model and building a more cost-competitive structure.
And if you actually look at our SG&amp;A per store it's down on a trailing 12 months to $659 000 per store which is equivalent to where we were in about second quarter of 2010.
So what that means is -- and we've built a lot of capabilities.
And what we've done is we've moved a lot of SG&amp;A.
What you can't see the SG&amp;A we moved out and replaced it with things like Remington inventory upgrades hubs and things like that so -- but our focus I want to make sure what you take away from us is our focus has not changed.
And what's probably happening is when your comps are negative it just puts more magnification on the SG&amp;A.
But looking at that trailing 12 months I think is an important number.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up on Remington or the ones that follow Remington.
Because I know Kevin made a comment at AAPEX that you plan to build up a distribution center the distribution facilities.
Can you talk about what's coming after Remington and what the cost of those facilities are? Yes Gary this is Kevin.
We -- essentially we're looking at facilities that we have today which what we had with -- as Darren said Remington was not a building that we built for this purpose.
It was a building that was essentially not needed.
It was built in advance of need based on essentially engineered standards that we had put in the existing fleet of DCs that bought us far more time than the previous management would have had -- would have believed.
So we're leveraging an existing building.
We have 8 other primary distribution centers at this point and a lot of our focus at this point is there and essentially taking what we have built in the model from Remington which was fairly expensive for 2 reasons.
There was a great deal of assistance that we needed to figure out how to pull that facility together.
We went from a relatively low level of automation to a high level of automation changed out the -- both the warehouse management system and based on the automation the warehouse control system.
And so what we're looking at today is how can we leverage all of those investments with the fixed-costs structure that we have with the supply chain that is essentially still using those legacy methods.
Our next question is from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple on the sales trajectory.
I guess I was surprised.
I think you said that the colder weather markets were still about 200 basis points worse than chain average even though I think it's starting to get cold out.
So I'm wondering if that's surprising on the other hand it's encouraging because you are seeing better comp trends overall.
So where are you seeing those better comp trends if not in the cold weather markets? Yes well just to reiterate what we said in the prepared comments.
So the northeast where we have a dominant store footprint those trends improved nearly 300 basis points in the quarter.
In the Great Lakes region I think we improved 130-some-odd basis points in the quarter.
So as you said we were some of the big movers that moved the trends in the quarter it's going to be in those.
Now we still have markets where quite frankly west of the Mississippi.
We've got markets that were mid-single digit markets for us and regions for us.
We said in our prepared comments the west as you hike on down towards Texas that was a good market for us.
Even the Southeast particularly in the Commercial business was mid-single digits strong for us.
But I think the larger picture when you hear about our optimism in terms of as we look out what we see are these regions of the country where they tend to be performing very well and then we see other regions whether it's the Northeast we see them starting to point in the right direction.
It might be getting cold out.
We're selling a few more batteries Great Lakes similarly the Plains we didn't -- the Plains has been challenging too.
It's another cold weather market out there as well.
So our view is is that cold weather starts to come through and we talk about it in our battery comments we saw our battery business which is failure cold weather related we saw those improve Q2 to Q3 200 plus basis points in terms of comp sales trends.
So I think those are all indicative that when we actually do get to turn the starters the alternators the antifreeze and all that tend to work in unison.
The other thing that's occurring too is we are starting to anniversary some of those year-ago trends in terms of escalating oil prices on the oil price -- on the oil change specials.
So it did give us a little bit of relief in the ticket this quarter.
And so I think those all position us as we get to more normalized weather trends as we look out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess if I could follow-up on that.
If you were to adjust those cold weather markets which were a couple of hundred basis points worse than the chain correct me if I'm wrong but your comps would still be in the flattish area? Maybe up slightly or down slightly which is down from where you were a couple of years ago even as the economy seem to be better than it was a couple of years ago.
Is there something in terms of the aging of the vehicles maybe sort of aging out of the sweet spot or cars that can be sold that people are opting for younger cars? Anything along those lines that you think could be impacting your business from a sort of multiyear perspective? Well we can all speculate as to what it is.
I think the average age of vehicles last year to this year even 2 years ago was moved up 6 months.
So you look in the larger scheme of things and you say is it really going to change because it's moved 6 months? I think new cars SAARs this year at 14.9 million will scrap roughly 13 million vehicles.
Just doesn't seem large enough in order to move the iceberg.
I think we said this time and time again on these calls is that it's probably from our vantage point as we look at gasoline prices and again you have to go back to '08 '09 and '10 when we saw that significant move down in terms of gas in the '09 and '10 period I think we averaged about $2.42 a gallon.
I think what happened is that we've freed up some discretionary income.
That discretionary income we could also see -- at that point we had reached somewhat of a peak in deferred maintenance.
It got spent on the car.
We get some gas price relief and I'm reluctant to say we will because it's -- we're no good in predicting it.
We thought we'd have relief in the back half of this year and we're $0.04 higher in the third quarter this year than we were 1 year ago.
Now we dropped about $0.20 a gallon in the last several weeks.
If we can sustain those levels I suspect we'll take a relatively constrained consumer still at that lower income levels and give them an opportunity to spend some of those dollars back on their car because what we can see in deferred maintenance levels is they've reached a all-time high in terms of the numbers that came out last week.
And I would just add one thing to what Darren said is what you're hearing from Darren is confidence and belief in the industry fundamentals.
I'm not sure if you were also trying to get your question when you compare that.
I mean in '09 and '10 we saw some uncharacteristically large growth in the industry from historical levels.
So maybe what you see is a little bit of the industry from a DIY perspective and in the Commercial reverting back to historical growth levels which are still good growth levels but they're just not at the same level as they were.
Yes Mike this is Kevin.
We religiously track the mean time to failure of every component of every car by major manufacturer.
And we clearly are seeing a later point in the vehicle at which key components fail.
And it's just a testament to the quality of the vehicles that are on the road.
We also see a high age average age of vehicle high average mileage per car.
And essentially cars are lasting longer than they did in the past.
But the parts ultimately fail.
And so essentially what is built into the trends of the industry is yes and actually there's been quite a bit written on the sweet spot.
There is a -- there are fewer cars in the sweet spot today than in the past but the sweet spot appears to have moved.
The car essentially retains its usability longer than it did in the past and the sweet spot with which customers repair their vehicle is just occurring later in the life of the car.
Our final question today is from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Mike I just wanted to touch on the commentary around potential strategies to accelerate sales growth.
I know you guys have talked about a couple of things and I was just wondering if you could maybe bucket a couple of the other potential uses of capital.
Because obviously capital allocation has been a big topic of conversation.
But when we look at potential uses you talk about the acceleration in store footprint the acceleration in building out the DC infrastructure.
What are the other types of investments that you're thinking of and how can we kind of think about that process? Yes.
So as we think about our capital and as we have consistently shared we always prioritize growth both organic and inorganic.
So when you think of organic our new stores are probably one of the biggest uses that we have had on capital and we will continue to have in the future.
So obviously that's a big area.
And one of the things that we shared in our comments is that we purchased during the quarter 21 previous [indiscernible] stores so that will be part of our new store growth.
So that will be an example of something organically.
It's been well known that there's been a large number of small and large sales growth opportunities on industry this year.
We don't comment on those.
And what we do is as we look at our capital allocation and look at different sales growth opportunities kind of the way we think about it is is there an opportunity to expand our footprint? Is there an opportunity to support our strategic growth direction particularly in the area of Commercial? And then is there a way in which we can leverage all the capabilities we built out? So that's kind of the frames we look at these things through.
And what we did give you is we just gave you a little perspective that the company -- and I think Darren has consistently said this is a growth story and we're always looking for things to grow our business and that fit with our business.
But we don't talk about specific things we look at.
But that's kind of a frame as to how we think about growth opportunities both organically and inorganically.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And I guess more of a as a detailed somewhat near-term question on the impact of Hurricane Sandy.
Darren I know you mentioned the number of stores that were closed at one period.
But just wondering if you can kind of refresh our memory in terms of how that -- how you think that impacts results over the next couple of quarters.
Is there typically a pickup in business given that you guys obviously do you have a fairly high concentration in some of the areas that were impacted by the storm? And I guess how does that kind of balance the near-term -- maybe a drop for some period of time versus a pickup thereafter? Yes.
Well there's 2 things that occur.
As you come in to whether it was Irene Andrew whatever you see a little bit of a buildup before the storm so lots of batteries gas cans go out the door before.
There is a lull for a period of time.
And it really is connected to FEMA dollars insurance dollars and the amount of devastation in terms of being able to get to our stores.
As we highlighted there were 400 stores.
Of those the good news is all but 2 are opened today.
And there was no loss of life for team members or family in those storms.
There will be a delayed period based on when those dollars start flowing back into the system.
We would expect as we approach quarter's end that we'll see more of those flow into the system.
The question will be do they spend it on Christmas or do they spend it on their car? But inevitably those storms do create more wear and tear on the vehicle.
And so it's again a question of not if it's a question of when.
And if the when doesn't happen within the fourth quarter it will spill over into the first quarter of next year.
So that's what we would expect based upon prior patterns of these storms in the past.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Joshua Moore for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And today's call is being recorded.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Vice President Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements.
We intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor Provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31 2011 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our first quarter 2013 release is scheduled for May 23 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday May 23 2013.
To be notified of the date of future earnings reports you can sign up through our Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our President and Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
The fourth quarter brought to a close a very challenging year yet we reached several important strategic and operational milestones.
Our achievements during 2012 are a direct result of the hard work and dedication of nearly 54 000 team members.
I want to say thank you to our Advance team for their continued diligence and commitment.
Our bottom line results in the fourth quarter were better than expected.
That being said we are never satisfied when comparable store sales and EPS decline.
Our fourth quarter results reflected sequential improvement from last quarter in sales gross margin rate SG&amp;A expense control and operating profits.
As we had forecasted during the third quarter call we anticipated that the market would be challenging and demand would continue to be weak for the fourth quarter.
Our focus was to build on the third quarter sales trajectory while materially improving our operating results in the face of near-term decelerating trends of our industry.
As a result of our efforts our market share gains were greatest in the fourth quarter while achieving a record high operating profitability.
I'm encouraged that our comparable store sales sequentially gained 30 basis points in the quarter when adjusted for the holiday shift.
Our improvement was driven by both commercial and our DIY business.
Quarter-over-quarter improvement in market share was driven by commercial with consistent comp-store sales growth in each period during our quarter when adjusted for the holiday shift in December for our Advance stores.
Our Commercial Business had positive trends in both transactions and average ticket size.
Our DIY comps sequentially improved from Q3 to Q4 driven by an increase in the average ticket size.
The increase was driven by mix of products sold and better in-store customer engagement and staffing on the weekends.
The uptick in overall average ticket was principally driven by the mix of products sold namely the impact of failure category sales.
Further impacting the average ticket growth has been the increasing cost of components driven by the ever increasing complexity of vehicles and the cycling of last year's escalating oil prices.
From a geographical perspective we continue to see weakness and volatility in our cold weather markets especially in the Great Lakes and the Northeast regions.
Our performance in those 2 markets continue to be impacted by the lingering effects of the unseasonably warm weather.
These regions' comparable store sales continue to trail our total company average by several hundred basis points.
However we've seen our comparable store sales stabilize in these regions over the last 2 quarters which is very encouraging as we enter 2013.
Finally we continue to pose low-single-digit comparable store sales growth in our western markets where we only have 10% of our store base.
As you recall during our third quarter we invested more heavily in the sales and service elements of our business in an effort to reignite demand and drive more customers through our doors over our phones and onto our e-commerce website.
Our investments in these areas improved our sales and market share results but reduced our profitability in the third quarter.
We expected our sales and service driving investments in the third quarter would carry over and benefit the balance of the year.
The improved sales momentum combined with our focus on improving our gross margin and cost management resulted in higher profitability in the fourth quarter.
Overall the improvement in our operating profitability was modest increasing to a record 8.5% for the quarter.
More importantly it sets the right focus and tone as we enter 2013 to leverage higher levels of profitability on modest sales gains.
For the year our operating income rate decreased 18 basis points to 10.6% of sales and our earnings per share increased 2.2% to $5.22.
Mike will provide more specific highlights of financial performance a little later in the call.
As I reflect on 2012 we achieved some critical strategic and operational milestones.
Strategically we opportunistically entered the boroughs of New York through the acquisition of 21 former Strauss Auto Parts stores and 6 Steinway Auto Parts locations.
Collectively we opened 137 stores in 2012 which is the high watermark in the last 5 years.
Importantly it is our best performing class of new stores in nearly a decade.
Our success in our 2012 new store performance positions us well as we expect to open nearly 200 stores in 2013.
Competitively it will close nearly a 300 basis point annual sales gap with some of our key competitors that has impacted our total and comparable store sales over the past several years.
Strategically our greatest accomplishment was the acquisition of BWP which closed on December 31.
Certainly BWP helps solidify our position in the very large and competitive Northeast market.
More importantly the Stockel family and BWP team as a whole are extraordinary leaders in the commercial industry.
We gained proven leadership an outstanding team and first-class customer relationships that will provide a significant opportunity to learn and improve our Commercial Business in the short and long term.
We are excited to welcome BWP to the Advance organization and confident that we have one of the most preeminent commercial players on our team.
Operationally our focus on related achievements were in    execution fundamentals and completing industry-leading commercial capabilities.
The commercial capabilities include the launch of our in-house commercial credit program; the opening of our new daily replenishment distribution center in Remington Indiana; reaching double-digit penetration of our new B2B ordering platform; and continued hub store expansions.
These milestones are significant steps which will allow us to more effectively compete in the larger and faster growing commercial market.
Our better execution of the fundamentals including improved delivery times more effective weekend staffing and record-low shrink which enabled record in-stock levels will position us well heading into 2013.
Turning to 2013 we are cautiously optimistic about our outlook.
Our optimism is based on several external and industry factors.
Obviously it starts with a return to more normal weather patterns which alone will provide much-needed strength for our business.
The industry is expecting a gradual increase in the number of vehicles 7 years and older coupled with a record level of deferred maintenance in 2013.
Finally gas prices though very volatile are forecasted to decline which has historically provided nice tailwinds for the industry.
Internally our opportunity still lies within the fact that we have a very small commercial market share.
The investment I mentioned earlier along with our developing capabilities such as our B2B e-commerce site and MotoLogic our new diagnostic tool set along with our rollout of a new electronic parts catalog to our stores later this year will strengthen our ability to compete and allow us to continuously increase our commercial market share while speeding up and improving the reliability and execution of our service at the shop and store level.
Our guarded view is related to a couple key macrodevelopments that temper our optimism.
First is the increase in the number of people purchasing or contemplating the purchase of a new vehicle.
Undoubtedly this will be good for us in the long term.
However it will cause short-term volatility in the industry as customers are more concerned about what they invest in maintaining their aging vehicle.
Second our economy continues to be lurching with high unemployment and wavering consumer confidence.
The level of financial stress on our core customer will become more acute with the most recent payroll and other related tax increases that took effect at the start of the new year.
The silver lining is that this is an economy of necessity where consumers will continue to seek value from their local aftermarket garages or perform needed repairs and maintenance themselves.
My final comment on the industry and customer outlook is whether we are at a structural inflection point or simply a cyclical moment.
Clearly I believe the long-term structural drivers of our industry remain very strong.
Cyclically consumers have a renewed interest in new vehicle purchases home investment and other select big-ticket purchases.
The weather cycle will even out over time.
Structurally parts proliferation parts complexity aging vehicle reliability and extended import part failure rates all underpin a fundamentally sound outlook for the industry.
The roughly 250 million vehicles on the road today that are over 11 years old like human beings are lasting longer and requiring more care.
In 2012 the industry may have caught a cold which simply needs to run its course.
Our recent 2013 regional leadership and sales team meetings conveyed one simple objective for the year which is a company of one focused on fundamentals.
The expected outcome is simple which is to make the day in terms of our customer experience sales and profitability.
Pragmatically that means we will stay the course on a few key initiatives that will drive our growth and improve our profitability including: One growing our Commercial Business through improved levels of delivery speed and reliability increased customer retention and share of wallet with our national and regional accounts; two relentlessly improving our local market availability through hub expansions tailoring and intensifying key store availability and leveraging our supply chain infrastructure; three expanding our new store pipeline to grow at a run rate closer to 200 stores a year versus 100 while successfully capitalizing on our BWP acquisition; four continuing our in-store execution excellence through scheduling effectiveness on-hand accuracy add-on sales training and customer engagement; five and finally increasing our efficiency and effectiveness throughout the support areas and through a more integrated store operating model.
Clearly our company priorities have a more intense operations and execution bias than years past.
Strategically our agenda remains the same as years past.
Operationally our focus has moved from building key capabilities to driving results through outstanding execution.
In closing I'd like to share one example to illustrate the points I've been discussing.
Partnership is key to commercial excellence.
And since last February our new commercial credit team has become a partner that more than half of our commercial customers rely on.
Financial Services Director Bill Corey and his team provide our customers seamless personalized service with flexibility that meets their needs.
Advance commercial credit is creating an improved customer credit experience while helping our team better serve their customers.
This team works closely with our customers from the minute they purchase from Advance to the time they are issued credit and receive statements.
The feedback has been overwhelming.
Our customers love talking to the same knowledgeable people and the program's simplicity like getting credit within minutes instead of hours.
Thanks Bill to you and your team for all you are doing to bring services our best part to life and drive excellence at Advance.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Kevin Freeland our Chief Operating Officer.
Thanks Darren and good morning and thanks to all of our team members.
Even though 2012 was a challenging year their efforts and milestones reached have made 2012 a pivotal year in our profitable growth journey.
As I begin my prepared remarks I'd like to go into a little more detail on these accomplishments and provide an update on our progress on the key priorities that support our superior availability strategy and new store growth.
As I've mentioned on our previous calls our focus with respect to superior availability is on providing our customers with the best-in-market availability and consistency of service both in order accuracy and delivery speed.
The areas of priority continue to be the expansion of our hub network the continual upgrade of our parts inventory at our non-hub stores the opening of our new DC and the implementation of our daily replenishment capability the growth in new stores and the continued growth and rollout of our B2C and B2B e-commerce platforms commercial diagnostic tool and our electronics part catalog.
In our fourth quarter we continued to expand our hub network through new store expansion and the upgrade of existing stores which have the space and are strategically positioned to operate as a hub.
As a result of this work we added 11 additional hub stores bringing our hub store count to 339 versus 294 at the end of 2011.
We also upgraded the inventory at 211 non-hub stores during the quarter.
Including our hub store conversions we've upgraded the inventory to over 1/4 of our total store base.
This was no small effort by our inventory and store teams and this work positions us to provide the products our customers need when they need them.
Our fourth quarter also marked our first full quarter where our Remington DC was fully operational.
The opening of this new DC was critical on 2 fronts: One it gives us much needed additional capacity as the result of our store growth over the past 5 years and will relieve a great deal of pressure on other DCs; two Remington will be a model for us in the future in terms of automation which we expect will greatly improve our productivity and efficiency and allow us to replenish our stores daily.
We'll continue our rollout of shipments to stores within Remington's service area in phases ultimately ramping up to over 400 stores this year.
The initial rollout of daily replenishment has been going well with all 195 stores receiving daily shipments at the end of 2012.
Our initial results are promising as the potential to provide best-in-class availability is one of our top goals.
Once this new DCs begin servicing its entire market we expect it will begin to improve our supply chain costs and strengthen our gross profit rate.
As a result of our store-level upgrades the opening of Remington and a higher mix of parts inventory our total inventory increased 13% to $2.3 billion.
This increase is in line with our expectations and will position us well into 2013.
We anticipate our total inventory will continue to grow in 2013 as we focus on increasing the overall breadth of our parts assortment improving our position with larger commercial customers and integrating BWP.
However our growth in 2013 will likely be at a slower pace than 2012.
That being said we continue to work aggressively to free up capital to fund other parts of our business and improve our return on invested capital through our supply chain financing program.
Our work in this area translates into expanding our accounts payable to inventory ratio which increased roughly 700 basis points from 80.9% at the end of 2011 to 87.9% this year.
Our own inventory decreased 28.5% or $111.2 million from $390 million to $278.8 million.
Over the past year we've been working aggressively to improve our e-commerce capabilities to better compete within our industry.
To that end we turned our efforts toward increasing the amount of our Commercial Business that's transacted online.
We expect to continue to increase the B2B penetration rate over time.
This will position our company to strengthen our relationship with larger and more national commercial garages as well as improve both the frequency and retention rate of our existing commercial customers who utilize this capability.
In April of last year we had our full debut of MotoLogic which we acquired in October of 2011.
MotoLogic provides the best-in-class repair and diagnostic capabilities.
We're still in the early stages of our rollout but our initial customer response has been great.
Our B2C site continues to make great progress and we achieved new levels of performance.
As I mentioned last quarter we now have the #1 multichannel site in the markets we serve.
Our B2C team ended the year with record sales and achieved $1 million in daily sales twice during the fourth quarter.
This progress is fantastic and is only a glimpse of the possibilities our mobile and electronic capabilities can provide.
Turning to our new store openings.
We added 67 new stores including 2 new Autopart International stores and Autopart International's acquisition of 6 former Steinway stores.
This has been a record quarter for new store openings and our teams have done an excellent job ensuring that the quality in which we open stores is at the highest standard.
For the year we added 137 new stores including 21 Autopart International stores and closed 5.
As of December 29 2012 our total store count was 3 794 including 218 Autopart International stores.
Our 2012 class of new stores continues to perform very well meeting our internal expectations of sales growth and overall sales productivity.
As I mentioned last quarter our 2012 class of stores is proving to be our most successful in terms of sales productivity and the pace of their weekly sales ramp.
As Darren discussed we acquired BWP at the beginning of fiscal 2013.
We're very excited about this affiliation as BWP is one of the strongest commercial-only distributors within the markets they serve.
This is a great opportunity for us to learn and integrate the best of Advance Auto Parts with the best of BWP and expand what they do to the rest of our commercial programs.
On day 1 BWP will have a positive impact on our performance.
We expect them to add $170 million to $180 million of sales to our business this year in incremental operating income dollars.
We plan to integrate and convert the 124 BWP stores to our systems and branding over a 2- to 3-year period.
We will continue to give you updates on any material developments as we work to convert these stores.
As a result of this conversion process we anticipate the net impact of the acquisition will be slightly dilutive to operating income for the year.
Finally I want to provide you a brief update on our progress to improve our gross profit rate.
As you might recall our goal after our second quarter 2012 results was to stabilize our sales trends reverse our decelerating trends while improving our overall gross profit rate.
Through our efforts to better safeguard our inventory maintain our disciplined approach in pricing partnering more effectively with our suppliers and better managing our promotional activity our gross profit rate increased 87 basis points to 49.9% versus 49.0% during the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the year our gross profit rate was 49.9% which was up 19 basis points versus 2011.
As we look ahead we continue to see modest improvements in our gross profit rate for 2013 as we improve our product acquisition costs generate increased supply chain efficiencies and continue to maintain our disciplined pricing strategy and shrink management.
The improvements will be partially offset by the continued supply chain investments.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Mike Norona to review our financial results in more detail.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers as we navigated through a challenging fiscal 2012.
I would also like to welcome our new BWP team members.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: One provide some financial highlights from our fourth quarter of 2012; two put our fourth quarter and year-to-date results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three share with you our financial outlook for 2013.
2012 was a challenging year for our business in the markets in which we operate.
Our fourth quarter performance and full year results were primarily driven by the ongoing softness in our colder-weather markets.
In addition our results were impacted by fluctuating gas prices high unemployment and a tough economic environment with more uncertainty which decreased consumer demand for auto parts.
As Darren mentioned our focus all year has been to influence the things that are in our direct control.
And we continue to be focused on achieving our longer-term growth and profitability goals by maintaining our strategic focus executing on the fundamentals and simplifying our operations.
While we are disappointed we did not achieve our growth and profitability expectations we are encouraged by our improved sales performance trends versus the market and generating positive operating income growth in our fourth quarter.
This improvement translated into a fourth quarter sales increase of 0.1% to $1.3 billion despite a comp store sales decrease of 1.9%.
Adjusting for the impact of the calendar shift in Q4 where we lost a couple of selling days as Christmas fell on a Tuesday this year versus a Sunday last year our comp store sales decreased roughly 1.5%.
Offsetting our comp store sales decline was the net addition of 132 new stores over the past 12 months.
Our total sales for fiscal 2012 increased 0.6% to $6.2 billion and our comp store sales decreased 0.8%.
Our fourth quarter gross profit rate increased 87 basis points to 49.9% versus 49% in Q4 of 2011.
The increase was primarily driven by continued improvements in our shrink performance and supply chain efficiencies driven by the increased volume of inventory handled during the quarter partially offset by investments in our supply chain driven by the opening of Remington and increased new stores.
For the year our gross profit rate increased 19 basis points to 49.9%.
Year-to-date our commercial mix represented 38.1% of 2012 sales versus 37% in 2011.
Our fourth quarter SG&amp;A rate of 41.4% increased 79 basis points versus the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to the expense deleverage as a result of our 1.9% comp store sales decline increased new store openings and costs associated with our acquisition-related activity during the quarter partially offset by lower incentive compensation.
For the year our SG&amp;A rate increased 36 basis points to 39.3% versus 39% over the same period last year.
The increase in our SG&amp;A is principally due to our fixed costs deleverage as a result of our 0.8% comp store sales decline.
All in our fourth quarter operating income dollars increased 1.1% to $113.2 million and our operating income rate increased 9 basis points over the same period last year to 8.5%.
This was on top of a 182 basis point improvement in fourth quarter 2011 over fourth quarter 2010.
Our diluted earnings per share decreased $0.02 to $0.88 during the quarter versus $0.90 in the fourth quarter of last year.
For the year our operating income dollars decreased 1.1% to $657.3 million and our diluted EPS increased 2.2% to $5.22.
Our average diluted share count was 74.1 million shares at the end of Q4.
For the year free cash flow was $412.3 million down $94.9 million over the same period last year.
The largest driver of the decrease in free cash flow was our planned increase of $89.9 million in our accounts receivable as a result of the in-sourcing of our commercial credit program.
Our inventory increased 13% primarily in car parts categories driven by the opening of our Remington DC our investments in hubs and store-level inventory  upgrades more new stores and to position the company for a strong availability in 2013.
Our investments in inventory continue to be enabled by reductions in our owned inventory which decreased $111 million compared to the end of 2011 and was driven by our continued efforts to increase our accounts payable to inventory ratio which now stands at 87.9% versus 80.9% in Q4 of 2011.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had $598.1 million in cash and $604.5 million of long-term debt on our balance sheet.
Our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR ratio was 2.2x which is well below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
We continue to measure our performance the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
Our approach in philosophy has always been to prioritize growth as our primary use of capital in order to increase returns and drive shareholder value.
Our investments over the course of this year have been centered on accelerating our commercial growth and stabilizing our DIY business by improving our availability through our hub store openings inventory upgrades supply chain investments and strengthening our market position with increased new store openings.
We are very proud that in our fourth quarter we implemented our first wave of daily replenishment entered the boroughs of New York and finalized our commercial credit in-sourcing.
We are also excited about our acquisition of BWP one of the leading commercial players in our industry.
This acquisition closed at the beginning of 2013 fiscal year.
While we prioritize growth as our #1 use of capital share buybacks have always historically been a part of our capital allocation.
We made the deliberate decision to slow our share buyback program in 2012 to preserve capital as we explored growth opportunities including the acquisition of BWP.
Looking ahead we plan to continue our historical practice of opportunistically repurchasing shares in a disciplined manner in 2013 and beyond.
Currently we have roughly $492 million left under our share repurchase authorization at the end of Q4.
Turning to profit.
We remain committed to improving our profitability which requires both delivering on our sales growth goals primarily driven by commercial and developing a more cost-competitive operating model.
While we are not satisfied with the progress we made to our profit model in 2012 our plans in 2013 and beyond are focused on improving our profit model which I will cover shortly in our annual outlook.
As we look at value creation we continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 19.4%.
ROIC decreased modestly from our fourth quarter last year driven primarily by our planned increase in accounts receivable due to our commercial credit in-sourcing and lower operating income.
Our AP ratio at the end of fourth quarter was a record 87.9% and we remain focused on achieving an AP ratio of 100% over time.
Turning to our outlook for 2013.
Our performance will be driven by continued growth in our commercial sales improved availability increased new store openings improved execution modest improvement in gross profit rate and improvements in our cost structure.
We expect the industry dynamics to remain favorable and anticipate to return to more normal weather patterns.
These will be somewhat offset by continued volatility in the economic environment with more uncertainty impacting the consumer such as increased taxes relatively high unemployment and continued volatility in gas prices.
As a result we anticipate our comp store sales to grow low-single digits driven by stronger commercial comps.
We plan to open 170 to 190 new stores and work to integrate the 124 BWP stores we acquired at the beginning of the fiscal year.
We anticipate BWP to add approximately $170 million to $180 million of incremental sales in 2013.
As a reminder BWP will not be reflected in our comparable store sales calculation until fiscal 2014.
We anticipate our gross profit rate to modestly improve driven by merchandising capabilities and global sourcing offset by competitive headwinds the integration of BWP which has a lower margin rate and an increased mix in commercial sales.
We anticipate our SG&amp;A to deleverage driven by increased new store growth more normalized incentive compensation the annualization of new stores from 2012 and approximately $0.15 to $0.20 of onetime integration costs for BWP.
These costs will be somewhat offset by improved labor productivity more effective marketing spend and improvements in our non-customer-facing support costs.
All in we anticipate our SG&amp;A per store to increase 3% to 5%.
We anticipate our quarterly operating profit for our first quarter of 2013 to decline mid to upper single digits given the current industry softness tougher sales comparisons the annualization of 2012 new stores along with the heavy concentration of stores opened in the fourth quarter of 2012 and higher incentive compensation.
Turning to capital expenditures.
We expect to invest approximately $275 million to $300 million driven by new store development supply chain investments and store systems.
We expect free cash flow to be a minimum of $375 million excluding the acquisition costs of BWP which was approximately 1x BWP sales.
Finally we estimate our 2013 annual operating EPS outlook will be in the range of $5.45 to $5.60 per share excluding onetime integration costs of BWP of approximately $0.15 to $0.20.
On a reported basis including the BWP onetime integration costs our EPS outlook is expected to be $5.30 to $5.45.
This annual outlook reflects a weighted average share count of approximately 74 million outstanding diluted shares.
Consistent with our historical practice our outlook does not reflect any anticipated share repurchase activity.
As we have previously shared we plan to continue our historical practice of opportunistically repurchasing shares in a disciplined manner which could possibly impact our 2013 annual EPS outlook.
In closing we are disappointed we did not deliver on the financial expectations in our fourth quarter and in 2012.
We remain committed to improving our performance in achieving our longer-term growth and profitability goals by maintaining our strategic focus investing in the key areas such as commercial and availability and executing on the fundamentals.
We also have great confidence in our team's ability to improve our performance based on their talents character and competitive spirit.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> One question and one follow-up.
You talked about Remington and what it's doing for you.
Could you -- I don't know if you could quantify in the 195 stores where you said you've already rolled it out the type of impact you're seeing from that.
And then past Remington could you talk about the rollout of further distribution centers into this year and following years? Gary I'll frame it and Kevin will give some of the details.
Maybe I'll start with the back half of that question.
So as we look at the daily replenishment opportunity long term right now as we've said before we're going to start with Remington and understand the lift.
And we're delighted with the first set of stores that we've seen and Kevin will give you a few more details on that.
We've committed to a second center in the Northeast in part because of the expansion in the Northeast and also in part because of our initial optimism that we had been -- that we had seen in some of our tests in terms of daily replenishment as well.
I think longer term what we're trying to balance is that these are not cheap facilities.
We have found a number of ways through the process now to get the costs down.
So after we get done with Connecticut there are a few other places in the country we'd look to go to next.
But I -- what I found is that if you get too far ahead of yourself in terms of kind of the disclosing where those are for competitive reasons that's not good and making sure that the theory that we see on paper turns out in reality.
And right now in Remington at least the initial stores that we're seeing the lift numbers from the stores that are receiving daily replenishment we're pleased with.
Kevin what would you add to that? Sure Gary.
So as I said in my remarks there were 2 reasons why we opened Remington.
One was it's the first DC we've opened in many many years first DC I've opened in the 5 years that I've been here.
And just based on store growth and comp store gains over the years it was needed just to keep up with the demand.
Second is obviously it's a different facility with a different role.
In the lifts that we're seeing we essentially built a pro forma that was based on 2 things: It's less costly for us to run that facility because of automation and then it lifts because of better in-stocks in our stores.
And essentially the lifts that we're receiving today are ahead of that pro forma.
And we're still in the early phases of kind of the shakedown cruise of the new DC.
As Darren said we -- and that would be -- essentially became our ninth DC.
We've secured a 10th DC in Connecticut and work is underway to replicate that work up there.
One of the things that's highly sensitive here is how far can we deliver the product based on the sales lift and the humble assumptions we began with suggested 150 miles.
At this point essentially the question that we have is based on the sales lift can that get pushed to 200 miles.
And we'll have a better sense of that over the next few quarters.
Assuming that in fact that becomes the case most all of our stores are within 200 miles of the 10 DCs we would then have.
And what we have is a new capability that can be deployed into those DCs.
So I think the future of this is to play out over the next several quarters.
But it has a lot more to do with just leveraging what we've already done more so than a significant change of the facilities that we previously owned.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on that.
The -- ignoring let's say like the DCs that are on the outskirts like in Kansas.
But in the other ones could you reformat them to take a lot of what you have in Remington? Or do you have to build new facilities? The existing plan today is inordinately weighted to leveraging the 8 legacy DCs that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just following up we've written about the polar vortex and the impact of the weather on sales.
And we're getting a big storm right in your market this weekend which I'm happy about but other people may not be.
When do you think we'll see -- assuming that it was weather and clearly your results point to that given the difference between the weather impact of markets or not.
When do we start seeing the benefits of the snow and the cold that we're getting this winter? Yes Gary our best estimate as Mike highlighted in his comments is as we look at our business Q1 is our longest quarter with 16 weeks.
We would be looking in terms of the wear and tear is going to continue to occur through the first quarter.
As we begin the second quarter and the balance of the year that's where we see the uptick.
As we said in our comments we're cautiously optimistic.
One of the pieces in the caution is that our Northeast business early on in the year last year was still pretty strong.
It really felt the effects of the winter as we got into say that later in that March April and beyond time period.
So when I step back we have such a large footprint in that Northeast and Great Lakes region.
Great Lakes was equally a good business and we're looking for both of those regions to see that bounce back as we head into Q2 and the balance of the year.
Our next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You alluded to share gains that you experienced in the quarter can you talk about those in a little bit more depth? And is there a way that you could tie the share gains to some of the actions that you may have taken earlier in the year? Yes Michael.
When we refer to that what we're doing is looking at the NPD data in aggregate.
And what we can see is our fourth quarter was by far our best quarter in terms of commercial share gains.
We continue to give up some DIY share in the quarter.
Just to be clear just to highlight one thing over the last several years we made a deliberate decision to slow down new store growth in favor of focusing on our commercial capabilities.
When we did that we've been running at a rate of about half of some of our competitors in terms of new stores.
And principally the way you grow DIY share these days is through new store growth.
And so we expect that share gap particularly as we go into 2013 to close.
And what you should take away from that too the new stores that we are adding we have been over last 2 years focusing on how do we position those to better serve the commercial customers while delivering a DIY experience that certainly we'd be proud of.
The New York class that we have now this is the best class that we've had in nearly a decade.
So we're upbeat about -- we're staying on strategy in terms of commercial -- in terms of commercial growth while being able to reposition the DIY business for share gains in the future again.
Research Division</strong> And  then given the performance of those new stores the most recent class do you get you mean just a modest lift to your comp as those fall into the comp base? Oh absolutely.
Yes absolutely.
Our estimates over the last several years and I've talked about this before is that versus some of our known competitors it's probably about a 300 basis point gap that we've been experiencing.
Certainly you can see it in the totals but the way these store models work you experience significant comp store benefits in year 2 3 and 4.
Usually it's about 4 years before you ramp to a maturity level in the stores.
Research Division</strong> That's super helpful.
One last question maybe for Mike.
On the 3% to 5% growth in SG&amp;A per store how does that going to break down? Or is there any way you could just provide a little more detail on the nature of those -- to quantify the nature of those investments that you're going to be making in the upcoming year? Yes.
There's a couple that are the big drivers of that.
So one of the drivers that's in that 3% to 5% SG&amp;A per store increase is we acquired BWP.
That's over 1/2 of that increase.
And that -- their SG&amp;A isn't growing.
We just put their SG&amp;A now on top of our SG&amp;A.
So that's 1/2 of it.
And then the other big driver -- 2 big drivers are our new stores.
So we've accelerated our new stores.
And we again look 170 to 180 and more normalized incentive compensation.
So those are the 2 drivers.
And then the offset to that is improved labor productivity improved marketing effectiveness.
And then obviously we're going to continue our cost work around pulling out costs furthest away from the customer.
Our next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is about the buyback.
And to your point you had abstained from buying back stock last year.
How do you think about value? You talked about being opportunistic.
What criteria do you use? And in that vein you talked about your buyback through 2012.
Have you bought back any stock year-to-date? Yes so Matt maybe I'll do your last one first.
We don't comment on our buyback before we do it.
So I won't comment on that.
We did say that we did kind of pull back on our buyback program last year as we preserved capital to look at sales growth opportunities including buying BWP.
And what I will tell you is our philosophy on buyback hasn't changed.
So you ask what do we do? We look at value.
And the first use that we think about when we're deploying our capital is we prioritize growth so investing in the business.
And then we look at buyback as also another way to pay back the shareholder and create long-term value and we take a long-term disciplined approach.
We do use a DCF model that we shared before.
And the good news is that can sometimes frustrate shorter-term shareholders that hold us for shorter periods of time but longer term shareholders have benefited because we bought back 41% of the company at an average price of just under $42.
So our philosophy hasn't changed.
What did change a little bit last year is we were looking at those sales growth opportunities and what we did say in our remarks is we do plan to resume our historical practice of buying back shares in a disciplined manner as we've done in the past.
And also as a reminder in our annual outlook we have not included any share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then second question if I could.
So you've spoken about some high level enhancements that you expect to make over time to your fulfillment capabilities.
You also spoke separately about your desire to increase your traction with some national accounts.
And I guess my question is if you think strategically about where you stand competitively in terms of your ability to provide optimal service to all sorts of commercial accounts is there a class of business or a class of customer where you feel you've been underpenetrated from a market share perspective relative to peers? Or you think your ability to compete and maybe for first call is going to grow as a result of some of these logistics efforts? Yes Matt.
So let me put all 3 of those together because being about Advance Auto Parts 5 years ago our Commercial business was $1 billion.
Today it's $2.3 billion.
By and large the growth has all come organically.
So it's not about us simply adding programs to DIY stores.
That was done a decade ago.
And as we have taken that journey from a DIY exclusively focused retailer 15 years ago our first step is that I'll call it the small mom-and-pop garages were just easier for us to deal with.
In many ways they looked like our DIY customers that we were comfortable serving.
And I would say today over the last 5 years we have grown significantly whether it's our relationship with Monroe our relationship with Sears our relationship with Goodyear and our relationship with Brakes Plus.
All of those customers in some ways are helping us understand better what we need to do to be effective with them long term.
Our push in availability specifically and import parts to bolster availability to the customer daily replenishment is all reflective of the reality that serving these larger customers starts with availability.
But it also includes as Mike highlighted our need to get into the commercial credit business.
Our experience on that with our partner just was not what our larger accounts expected was one.
And then two we talked about our B2B platform.
Two years ago our penetration on that was close to 0.
We surpassed 10% this year on our way to 20%.
And the majority of those as you would expect are the larger bay garages in terms of reflecting those capabilities.
I feel like we're in great shape today in terms of our sales force and how we're focusing them in terms of our platinum diamond customers and their growth expectations.
I feel terrific about what the teams have done in-store.
We talked about our shrink results this year.
Shrink is helpful because we see that in the P&amp;L but what's really helpful is the in-stock levels at the local store level.
So organizationally as I said this has been a journey of 5 years to get to a set capabilities that those larger bay customers are an opportunity for us principally versus the traditional WDs for sure.
I will tell you one of the benefits of BWP when we look at their business is that nearly 2/3 of the business that they're doing are with customers that we weren't doing business with.
And they tend to be larger bay customers.
Neil Stockel who is in the Stockel family have been just fantastic.
And we see them as real resource to help us understand how to penetrate and grow even deeper relationships with those larger bay customers.
Our next question is from Colin McGranahan with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> First just on the BWP focusing on that for a second.
Can you give us a little detail on the integration and what those costs will be in 2013? Just looking at the EPS guidance it looks like it translates to maybe $18 million to $24 million of actual integration expenses which seems a little high at 10% to 14% of the sales of BWP.
So maybe you can just give us a little more specificity on what those integration costs are and how that integration is going to go? Yes.
So Colin this is Mike.
I will start that and Darren you can add any comments.
But first of all we're not going to go into a lot of details on our integration costs from a competitive standpoint.
But let me give you a little bit of a frame.
We said that these are onetime costs whenever you buy a company.
One of the things that was a little bit unique about the BWP business is they had the company-owned stores and then they had the independents.
We don't have the independents.
So part of the costs are kind of separating the DCs and moving the DCs to the GPI -- the DC and the GPIs.
So there's going to be some costs associated with that.
And then there's just integration costs.
As you transition as you make changes as you move things around and convert things.
So those are where the costs are.
And I want to be clear those are onetime costs $0.15 to $0.20.
Obviously those are estimates right now and our goal will always be to beat those numbers.
But that's our best view right now.
I think the more important part about that business is and I think Darren said it we're extremely excited about it as it gives us some access to some new capabilities some very talented people including the Stockel family and all our team members.
And so far we're off to a fabulous start in that business.
And then we also said that if you net out and take away the integration costs of that business the sales of $170 million to $180 million is actually accretive to our business.
It's in the commercial space so we're really excited about that.
Yes I don't have much to add Colin except just imagine you have 3 DCs.
Products co-mingle.
There's going to be a fair amount of work on the front end just to realign all the products to support the company-owned stores to support the stores that GPI will be taking as a part of this.
And then there's repositioning in our own markets.
There's going to be real estate related costs that drive a fair amount of that onetime costs.
And then there's just the natural retention in people type of costs too.
So our goal is to actually get those behind us and always to try to achieve a lower level of integration costs than what it takes.
But we thought it was just helpful to frame that for the outside world.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
Just a second very quick follow-up on new store expansion.
2013 and even beyond obviously you're starting to accelerate the expansion a little bit here.
Can you geographically talk about where the emphasis and focus will be contrasting existing markets new markets? It sounds like New York City and then New England area might be a bit more of an emphasis? And then further west as well.
Sure.
Kevin? Yes Colin this is Kevin.
So essentially there's 2 elements.
The easy question -- or easy answer to your question is what's our plan in 2013? And we have markets that were materially underpenetrated.
And as we had in our prepared remarks we entered New York City.
New York City is just on the commercial side over $1 billion in volume and it's a market we just entered last year.
We through the BWP acquisition making a big bet in the Northeast.
But the majority of our stores that we opened in 2012 were in the Northeast and that will remain true as we go through 2013.
So it's essentially storing out markets that we're underpenetrated in.
We're also making a material push into Chicago and that's another underpenetrated market.
As you move forward to 2014 and beyond you look at a map of Advance and it's an East Coast-based company.
And we've commented on that and the impact of the weather.
And the entire West Coast of the United States is essentially what we would be moving to over the next several years.
Our final question today is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Darren you noted a number of initiatives that further grow your commercial market share.
But on do-it-yourself I believe the only catalyst is accelerating the number of new stores.
But beyond that is there anything in the works to improve the do-it-yourself productivity? And also I may have missed it did you provide the do-it-yourself commercial sales mix in your prepared comments? Yes Josh will...what? 38.2% is our commercial mix for the year.
Yes.
And we would see that grow into over 40% next year with BWP and our other commercial efforts.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Joshua what was it for the quarter? 38.2%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was for the year or the quarter? Quarter.
Quarter.
Okay.
And then Dan on DIY it was blended into the comments but it's a great question.
So within DIY Kurt Schumacher who has been in the industry 39 years with us for 12 years took over our store organization midyear our field organization.
I tell you Kurt is just passionate about the simple fundamentals of the DIY business including when you look how DIY trends work these days Friday Saturday Sunday are the days for the business.
He's put a lot of effort into simple things and the fundamentals which include the weekend staffing is one.
We've talked before about down to the team member we can see that average basket each team member is moving in a store these days.
We've put in a lot of effort in growing the average ticket.
We've said for years and others may disagree with us the DIY business is a 0 to 1 grower in total.
The focus we've all been challenged by ticket growth and their -- our transaction growth for years.
What we realize as we benchmark some of our average ticket in store were low.
And so our efforts this year have a lot to do -- and as you travel our stores as I know you do is focusing on our add-on sales efforts.
We talked about later in the year we're going to be rolling out our internal languages find it fast get it fast our new EPC.
So today our EPC doesn't necessarily make it easy for someone without deep auto industry knowledge to be able to put together a complete solution for the customer.
Others have that ability on the EPC to kind of put together a complete bundle.
What we see as the opportunity as we roll out our EPC what we're doing is transferring some of the knowledge in selling process in the electronic parts catalog and allowing that associate at the counter that team member at the counter to be able to put together a complete break bundle to put together a complete oil change offer and to be able to measure it and give feedback on that as well.
And so I am very optimistic.
We had our catalog built by our best parts pros in our stores and our general managers.
We're beginning the as Kevin would say the shakedown process for that.
And making sure that when it does hit the store it works as advertised.
But that's where I see the growth coming in DIY is the combination of new stores and growing the average ticket not through hope but actually through the training process and ultimately supporting that through the new parts catalog as we get through the back half of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick question for Mike.
You're guiding first quarter operating profit to drop what 5% to 8%.
Is the increase in the incentive comp is that the key reason for that decline? Yes.
Hey Dan before I hit that question -- and I know you always like to get to precision with your numbers so let me give you -- so the Q4 mix of commercial was 37.9% and the annual mix of commercial was 38.1%.
And then the drivers -- and then in terms of the drivers there's a few of them.
First of all we're going to be anniversarying -- so we've got more -- if you remember I think we took out about 221 basis points of costs last year of leverage so we're anniversarying that.
Two is our new stores so we're adding new stores.
And last year our new store mix was more at the back half of the year.
This one is going to be spread out through -- evenly throughout the year.
And then we have -- the third one component is the annualization of those stores.
So typically we opened 67 stores up in the back half of the year.
As you know the heavier costs are at the beginning of that so that will be the third component.
And then the last component is the incentive compensation.
So as we know -- it's not increased incentive.
It's just normalizing incentive comp just given our lower performance last year just resulted in lower incentive comp.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you still thinking same-store sales are slightly negative in 1Q before flipping positive? Yes we don't give out quarterly guidance around that but you can read into Darren's comments.
I think Darren gave a good frame of how we think about the quarter.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Joshua Moore for closing comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks for our audience for participating in our fourth quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
Thanks again and that concludes our call.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you very much for joining.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
Before we begin Joshua Moore Vice President Finance and Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you today that our comments contain forward-looking statements.
We intend to be covered by and we claim protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause the results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for fiscal year ended December 29 2012 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found in our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our second quarter 2013 earnings release is scheduled for August 8 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday August 8 2013.
To be notified of dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Joshua.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
To our 54 000 team members thank you for your hard work and focus on our everyday fundamentals in order to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Also I want to take a moment to welcome George Sherman our new President and congratulate Charles Tyson in his recent promotion to EVP in charge of merchandising marketing and supply chain.
Both George and Charles are with me today and will be available to answer questions during the Q&amp;A portion of this call.
Turning to our business.
We highlighted during the fourth quarter conference call that our start to the fiscal year would be challenging and demand would continue to be weak for the first quarter.
We are not surprised nor are we satisfied with the sales and bottom line results.
We continued to experience the temporal impacts to our industry with respect to the unseasonably warm weather in early 2012 that deferred maintenance expenditures and impacted failure rates in vehicles especially in our cold-weather markets.
We expected tougher sales comparisons and the short-term impacts of consumers both considering and increasing big-ticket spending including new car sales to factor into our results.
Yet we did not fully anticipate certain impacts to our core customer including the payroll tax increases the delayed income tax refunds coupled with a very slow start to the spring selling season.
Collectively these factors contributed to a much softer than anticipated comparable store sales performance which declined 3.2%.
Our comparable store sales decline was driven by our DIY business and partially offset by a modest gain in our commercial sales.
Our decline in transactions was partially offset by an increase in average ticket which was driven by price optimization and the mix of products sold.
The encouraging news is that we expected our sales trends to materially improve in April and they did.
Our best weekly performance during the quarter came in the last 2 weeks which ended April 20.
During that period we saw both transaction and average ticket growth.
The principal driver was a return to a more normal weather pattern in the Northeast and the Great Lakes regions.
Specifically we have seen improvements in our seasonal and maintenance categories as customers began to perform that much-needed work on their vehicles that had been deferred much of last year.
This is reaffirming that our market remains strong and consumers still have a willingness to invest in reliable transportation.
These positive trends have carried over to the start of our second quarter generating low-single digit comp store sales increases.
However our optimism continues to be tempered in the face of a solid start to the second quarter.
Our last 6 weeks' sales performance have been positive but somewhat uneven week to week hampered in part due to the sluggish start to the spring selling season.
Our seasonal categories like wash and wax air conditioning and radiators have been the most erratic.
Further our sales outlook for the balance of 2013 remains guarded on account of a couple key macro factors.
First is the increase in the number of people purchasing or contemplating the purchase of a new vehicle.
Undoubtedly this will be good for us in the long term.
However it will cause short-term volatility in the industry as customers become more selective in what they invest in maintaining their aging vehicle.
Second our economy continues to be fragile with declining consumer confidence high unemployment and financial stress on our core customer which became more acute with the most recent payroll tax increases that took effect at the start of the year.
The silver lining is that the economy of necessity where consumers will continue to seek value from their local aftermarket garages or perform needed repairs and maintenance themselves.
Despite our cautious sales outlook we remain committed to growing our business and profitability through our consistent focus on service leadership and our superior availability strategies.
We intend to stay the course in 2013 on our objective of a company of one delivering on the fundamentals.
The expected outcome is simple which is to make the day in terms of our customer experience sales and profitability.
Pragmatically that means delivering on a few key initiatives starting with commercial sales and in-store execution while maximizing the benefits of our investments and availability delivery speed e-commerce diagnostic capabilities and beginning the rollout of our new electronics parts catalog.
Collectively this is consistent with our transition from building capabilities to leveraging them to improve our ability to consistently grow our business and accelerate our profitability.
In the first quarter these efforts are reflected in our improving commercial customer retention and growth rates.
Our gross profit rate was essentially flat for the quarter which was above our expectations.
Our SG&amp;A per store was down slightly on a trailing 4-quarter basis versus the first quarter a year ago.
All in and despite our lower-than-anticipated sales performance this allowed our operating income change in the first quarter to be within our previously-shared outlook of down mid- to upper-single digits decreasing 9.1%.
Mike will share more details of our financial performance later in this call.
Now let me provide you an update on our 5 key priorities I outlined at the beginning of 2013.
First growing our Commercial Business through improved levels of delivery speed and reliability and increased customer retention and share of wallet with our national and regional customers.
We continue to monitor our ability to deliver fast service safely and accurately and leverage our investments on our online ordering and the in-sourcing of our commercial credit.
Finally we have begun to invest in sales activation programs to better grow our national and regional customer accounts.
As a result of these efforts we saw positive comp store sales gain in our commercial sales across-the-board improvements in delivery speed record B2B and credit penetration and our mix of business and commercial during the quarter grew to 40.8% versus 37.9% during the first quarter of 2012.
Our second priority of improving our local market availability is that we continue to increase the number of hubs in our fleet through the new store openings and the upgrade of existing stores that have that space and are strategically located to operate the hubs.
Through our first quarter we expanded our hub store count to 348 adding 9 hubs during the quarter and 31 since the first quarter of last year.
Additionally we see -- we are seeing progress with our operations at our new Remington DC.
As we previously stated we anticipate ramping up to 400 stores being serviced by Remington this year.
Through our first quarter we had 278 stores receiving shipments from Remington at least once per week with more than half of those stores receiving daily replenishment.
The initial results of our stores receiving daily delivery is promising as they are experiencing a mid-single-digit sales lift versus their control stores within the region driven principally by the parts category.
However we are still very -- in the very early stages and need to continue to monitor the results over the next several months to draw any definitive conclusions.
Our third priority is expanding our new store footprint.
As you recall we completed the acquisition of BWP at the beginning of the fiscal year and began our efforts to integrate the 124 stores we acquired to the Advance Auto Parts platform.
We have just completed the integration planning of this work and will begin the process of converting and consolidating stores over the next 12 to 15 months.
We successfully transitioned the independent stores to GPI and retained the outstanding team members at a very high rate and focused much of our attention on maintaining the great relationships built by the BWP team.
We continue to move forward with our more aggressive new store opening plan adding 46 net new Advance stores and 5 net new Autoparts International stores during the quarter.
Mike will provide a little more detail on our new store openings during the quarter.
We continue to be delighted by the performance of our newer classes of stores with our 2012 class of stores continuing to outperform our expectations and our 2013 class of stores meeting our expectations during the quarter.
Our fourth priority improving our in-store execution is supported by our new tools to measure personal productivity to help place our best salespeople during the hours of the days of the week with the highest amount of traffic.
Also we are working to improve the level of individual effectiveness to maximize every customer engagement.
These efforts are simply tied to improving our schedule effectiveness and increasing our customer order size by providing our customers with the full solution all the time in order for them to get the job done right the first time.
We are still progressing towards our goals however we continue to improve our results which are reflected in our increase in average ticket size.
Five and finally improving our profitability through increasing our efficiency throughout our support areas and our store operating model.
Our leaders have been working locally and collectively to identify and deliver efficiencies in our business that will put us on a trajectory to achieve accelerated profitability and reduce the SG&amp;A-per-store gap versus our industry peers.
Additionally we have developed long-term incentive programs designed to accelerate both the growth and profitability.
Collectively our company priorities remain intensely focused on operations to drive results through customer service enabled through outstanding and consistent execution.
In closing I'd like to share an example of how team members bring Service is our Best Part to life.
As we've mentioned we have been very excited about our new service model of daily replenishment in our Remington distribution center and have increased the availability of parts that it has helped us achieve for our customers in those markets.
With any new facility with the new team members it is always important to have someone who is a constant champion of the customer.
For Devon Kurtz [ph] the AGM in Remington this comes naturally.
No matter the question or special request to help serve our store customers he always has the same positive purposeful approach of doing whatever he needs to do to provide that help to provide that service and to get the job done.
He provides a constant focus of quality and integrity with the Team Members in the facility with a calm continual reminder of the importance of providing great service out to the stores and our customers.
Thank you Devon [ph] for being a leader in Remington and for the company.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented team members for their continued efforts to improve our business and serve our customers as we navigate through a challenging first quarter and start to our year.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights for our first quarter of 2013; two put our first quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2013.
As we shared on our fourth quarter earnings call we anticipated our first quarter would be challenging given the industry softness carryover from 2012 tougher sales comparisons the annualization of 2012 new stores along with the heavy concentration of stores opened in the fourth quarter of 2012 and higher incentive compensation.
That was further magnified with the first 90 days being even more challenging than we anticipated especially in DIY driven by higher payroll taxes delayed tax refunds and a slow start to spring.
While we are never satisfied when we do not meet our expectations we were pleased with our discipline to make adjustments during the quarter as we responded to a softer sales environment.
These adjustments along with the stronger sales in the last 2 weeks of our first quarter allowed us to deliver a somewhat better bottom line performance than we anticipated and shared out at the beginning of April.
As I mentioned to you last quarter we continue to remain focused on influencing the things that are in our direct control and positioning our company for long-term growth and profitability by maintaining our strategic focus executing on the fundamentals and simplifying our operations.
As a result of the weaker consumer demand our comp store sales decreased 3.2%.
Our total sales however increased 3% to over $2 billion driven by the acquisition of BWP and the net addition of 163 new stores over the past 12 months.
Our comp store sales decrease was driven by declines in our DIY sales partially offset by a positive growth in commercial sales.
Our gross profit rate in the first quarter was 50% versus 50.1% in the first quarter of 2012 or a decrease of 8 basis points.
This was slightly above our expectations for the quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to the planned increase in supply chain costs associated with the full operation of our new Remington DC and the impact of BWP sales which have a lower gross margin rate due to their higher mix of commercial sales partially offset by continued improvements in our shrink rate.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 39.9% increased 127 basis points versus the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to expense deleverage as a result of our 3.2% comp store sales decline and increased new store openings partially offset by lower advertising expense due to our adjustments related to the softer industry sales environment and a decrease in credit card fees as a result of the in-sourcing of our commercial credit program.
All in our operating income was $204.1 million which was a decrease of 9.1% versus the first quarter of 2012.
This was in line with our outlook we shared during our fourth quarter conference call due to our stronger finish during the last 2 weeks of our first quarter and our team's disciplined focus on expense management.
Our operating income rate decreased 135 basis points to 10.1% in the first quarter.
Our EPS decreased 7.8% versus Q1 last year to $1.65 per share and includes $0.01 of transition costs associated with the integration of BWP.
We still anticipate the transition of BWP will occur over an 18-month period and the cost associated with 2013 to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.20.
Our free cash flow usage of $105.9 million for the quarter was primarily the result of the acquisition of BWP.
Excluding the net impact of the acquisition our free cash flow would have been $72 million compared to $153.1 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Our owned inventory decreased 12.8% versus Q1 2012 primarily due to our efforts to increase our accounts payable to inventory ratio which is now at 86.7% versus 82.5% in the first quarter of 2012.
Our total inventory increased 15% driven by our new Remington DC more hubs more new stores and the acquisition of BWP.
This increase was slightly higher than our expectations due to our lower-than-anticipated sales performance.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 767 000 shares at an average price of $76.72.
At the end of our quarter we had roughly $434 million left under our share repurchase authorization and our average diluted share count was 73.8 million shares.
At the end of our first quarter we had roughly $605 million of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.2x which is below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
We continue to measure the performance of our business with the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
We continue to prioritize growth as our primary use of capital in order to increase returns and drive shareholder value.
As a result our focus continues to be on accelerating our commercial growth and stabilizing our DIY business.
Our goal to achieve this is by improving our availability through our hub stores inventory upgrades supply-chain investments and strengthening our market position with increased new store openings.
We are very proud of our improved coverage and in-market availability driven by the areas Darren covered.
We are also proud of the accelerated pace of our new stores openings including the net addition of 175 new stores during the quarter including the acquisition of BWP which added 124 commercially-oriented new stores in the Northeast; the opening of 49 new Advance Auto Parts stores; and the opening of 7 new Autopart International stores.
Additionally we closed 3 Advance stores and 2 Autopart International stores.
At the end of Q1 our total store count was 3 969 and we remain on pace to open 170 to 190 new Advance Auto Parts stores and Autopart International stores this year.
Turning to profit.
While we did not meet our profit expectations for the quarter we are pleased by how our team responded in the face of a slower sales environment to make adjustments that helped our profits.
As we shared recently we have recommitted ourselves to getting to 12% operating margins over the next 3 years.
The pathway to 12% is going to be modest gross profit rate improvement and a significant improvement in our cost efficiency and execution.
We have aligned our leadership and incentive programs around this goal.
Three big drivers around our cost will be improvements in our labor productivity developing a more flexible cost model that flexes with sales and reducing administrative and support costs furthest away from the customer.
For example we have developed tools that allow us to set goals and measure individual team member productivity and we expect to see improvements in our dollars per transaction.
We also have a high fixed cost model that needs to scale better as sales flex.
Finally we have to get more efficient with our costs including lowering our cost furthest away from the customer.
We have made significant investments in our business and capabilities in the last 5 years and those investments came with the expectations of lower support costs supply chain professional services occupancy costs to name a few.
As a result of a commitment to build a more competitive cost structure while funding strategic investments and to employ a more disciplined approach to cost management our total SG&amp;A dollars per store decreased slightly to $651 000 per store in our first quarter versus $656 000 per store during the first quarter of 2012.
With respect to value creation we have maintained our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 18.1%.
For the quarter our ROIC decreased 223 basis points versus the first quarter last year as a result of our increased invested capital through the acquisition of BWP the in-sourcing of our commercial credit and the accelerated pace of our new store openings.
Also impacting ROIC is our lower operating performance driven by the lower sales environment.
Longer term we see opportunities to improve our ROIC as we begin to generate benefits from our Remington DC our acquisition of BWP and as our sales from our new store openings begin to ramp.
We also see opportunities to reduce our net owned inventory as we move towards our goal of achieving an AP ratio of 100%.
Turning to the balance of the year.
We continue to be confident that the fundamentals of our industry remain strong and are encouraged by our positive comp store sales performance so far in Q2 driven by our improved performance in the Northeast.
Our optimism is somewhat tempered by our soft first quarter which is our longest and historically strongest quarter and slow start to spring.
It is unclear how much of our strong start to Q2 is the result of a bounce-back from the delayed spring versus a fundamental rebound in consumer demand.
Therefore we think it's prudent to temper our full year expectations.
We now anticipate that our comp store sales will be flat to slightly positive for the full year and we will continue to make the appropriate adjustments to our costs in a disciplined way to adjust to these sales trends.
It is still early enough in the year that we are maintaining our annual outlook.
But given the softness in Q1 and slow start to spring we now expect we will be at the lower end of our previously-shared annual outlook of $5.30 to $5.45.
In closing we are committed to our strategies in commercial and availability and remain confident in the industry fundamentals and how we are positioned as a company.
We are focused on improving our top and bottom line and strengthening our returns to continue to drive shareholder value.
We also want to thank our 54 000 team members who lead us every day with their relentless focus on service and commitment to operational excellence and execution which are key ingredients to delivering on our goals.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones both related to the outlook.
On your last call I believe you had given some directional color for gross margin and for growth in SG&amp;A per store on the year.
As you maintained your guidance in essence for the first quarter it was a bit off from what we originally thought.
Is there any change to the geography of the P&amp;L considered in your outlook? Matt it's Mike.
First of all what we said in our outlook is that our margin would be modestly up for the year and we still expect our margin our gross profit margin to be modestly up for the year.
And then from an SG&amp;A-per-store perspective we said that we expected it to be up 3% to 5% for the year.
And I would expect now since we somewhat tempered our annual outlook to the low end we guided to the low end that we would be in the low end of that SG&amp;A per store.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then secondly welcome back to the world of share repurchases.
It's been a while and it's good to see you buying back stock.
It was kind of a -- dipping a toe in -- back in relative to the rate that we have been accustomed to when you were most active.
What's your thought process on the kind of money you would look to put back into buybacks given that your free cash flow remains substantial? Yes.
So first of all I just want to remind everyone we haven't changed our view on how we deploy capital.
We take a long term disciplined approach to our capital and we prioritize investing in the business first and then looking for non-organic strategic investments in areas that are strategically aligned with our company i.e.
the BWP acquisition.
So that hasn't changed.
We also see buybacks as kind of that third leg to return back to the shareholders but our priority is always to give back -- to invest in the business first.
You saw that we bought back about $59 million of shares in the quarter in terms of dollars and we typically -- we don't give a forward outlook in terms of how many shares we buy back.
But our capital allocation hasn't changed.
And as you saw I think last time we said we're going to start buying shares back and you saw us do that in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just very quickly by way of cleanup if you think about the guidance you initially issued I'm not sure that there was any buyback in there.
You've since bought back some stock so should we assume that the implied share count is in line with no incremental buybacks but the buybacks that we've seen year-to-date? Yes.
That's right Matt.
So we don't -- we won't include any -- none of -- no future buybacks included in our outlook but we have incorporated what we purchased to-date in our outlook.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about the pace of improvement that you saw towards the end of the first quarter and it sounds like it's continued into the first period.
It sounds like you've been kind of guarded on your optimism that -– about the acceleration and it may not have been to the same degree that some of the other players within the industry have talked about.
So a is that fair? And is there an explanation for that? Yes.
Sure Michael.
This is Darren.
So a couple of things.
You're absolutely right.
Our comments do reflect that we are guarded.
When we look back at the first 16 weeks of the quarter -- it's our longest quarter for the year as I said in my comments -- our last 2 weeks were as we expected materially improved in terms of our sales trend.
But before that it was pretty uneven.
Matter of fact I would say we started in period one very strong.
The middle part of the quarter was very challenging particularly March and we expected part of that particularly in our colder-weather markets because of the early spring that affected us and many others in the industry and related industries.
When we got into Q2 as I said in my remarks if you look over this the first 4 weeks we've been absolutely positive in the low-single digits as I said in my remarks.
I'm a little guarded because I'm not sure if it's a head fake a little bit in terms of the consumer.
So when I look through the trends we certainly can see -- take our maintenance categories.
We've had an enormous bounce-back in our maintenance categories.
Maintenance is about 45% of our business.
So it tends to skew higher than say some of the others in the industry.
And so that maintenance category has just been stubborn and erratic for the better part of a year.
So that's going to include your oil that's going to include brakes.
And so I guess it's just prudent on our part to temper those expectations 'til we get more than call it a 6-week trend at this point.
Now having said that internally you can imagine we are playing to higher expectations.
But we think responsibly we should manage both to our top line expectations manage our costs in the right way to get to the right profitability outcomes at the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful commentary.
The follow-up question Darren in your prepared remarks you called out rising new car sales and the intention of consumers to buy new cars.
In the past the industry has kind of had an uneven or inconsistent relationship with new car sales.
There's been periods where the industry has done really well in a pretty high-SAAR environment.
And then obviously when the SAAR fell the industry also did quite well.
So what's driving that viewpoint right now? And maybe you could talk a little bit about your decision to include that in the script.
Yes happy to do that.
Let's say more broadly when we look into consumers the one thing in our category we do see is failure has been a consistent performer for us.
And failure categories again think about batteries is probably the anchor in the failure category business.
So we know when something actually breaks the consumer does spend.
And that's been a consistent performer as well.
When we get into the maintenance categories and how it ties to new car sales is that -- not just the cars that are being sold it's the cars that are contemplating -- consumers contemplating a new purchase.
And the other thing I would say is that when our industry really benefited in '09 and '10 what we saw was that release in terms of the deferred maintenance spend and it came at the cost of probably some adjacent industries to us.
So we saw housing slow down in terms of the spend in housing.
We saw home improvements slow down at that moment in time.
I think sometimes we narrowly just think about our industry versus that consumer has a wallet and those dollars tend to go different places.
Clearly they're choosing to use part of that wallet in some adjacent categories today.
The contemplation of a new car will actually make them more selective in terms of what they invest in terms of their aging vehicle.
And then candidly there are just more cars being spent.
So I think a lot of times there are industry-specific things that we must pay attention to in seasonal cycles and we have to be realistic.
Ultimately it comes down to a consumer's wallet and how much open-to-buy they do have.
And so my comments really reflect that guarded but I think pragmatic view about what the consumer is facing.
The next question is from Michael Montani with ISI group.
Research Division</strong> The first one I had related to the comp cadence that you might be up against if you think about the second quarter of a year ago.
And I guess specifically the thought would be if you're positive low-single digit now and we look at the negative 27 comp you did in 2Q '12 was that negative 27 sort of evenly negative low-single digits? Did you start better in April and then maybe tail off towards the back half? I guess selfishly it could imply that the comp could be something better than just 1 or 2 for the quarter.
Well we -- Michael we certainly hope so.
And I think it goes back to my earlier comments.
As I -- I don't have the period-by-period in front of me from Q2 a year ago but my sense is there was just a consistency to it.
I don't think it varied anymore from 1 point or 2 period to period.
So that's not necessarily how we're looking at the comparison in the second quarter.
It really comes back to -- we want to see more consistent stability in that positive comp sales trend.
The good news is we're seeing positive comps week in and week out now.
We have some big weeks still ahead of us as we head towards just this weekend ahead of us in terms of Memorial Day as you head towards July 4 a little later in this year.
But the good news is we do see 2 -- on a 2-year basis our stacks remain positive as well.
So all that's good and I'd just take you back to my prior comments.
We think it's important just to kind of temper some of the expectations but clearly focus our teams towards a higher outcome.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then another question sort of bigger picture was just looking at call it a 600 700 bps deceleration in comps from 1Q '12 for yourselves and the industry broadly we've been thinking obviously weather is a couple hundred bps and disinflation.
Can you just provide an update maybe on what kind of inflation you might be having today in your numbers at retail sort of 1% to 2% perhaps and what it could have been a year ago? And basically the root of this is to understand -- have you now sort of cycled out of a period where there maybe was some inflation and now it's kind of stabilizing? Or what are you guys seeing? Yes Michael.
We're still expecting a very modest impact from an inflation standpoint.
It was more aggressive last year than we expect to see this year.
I think you're going to see some volatility through the balance of the year through the chemical business primarily driven by what expectations drive through oil.
I think in the balance of the business we're going to see a good level of stability in our pricing.
Obviously if we see a change as we've done in prior years we'll react to that pricing to be competitive with the market.
But I think it will be very modest as we're seeing through the balance of the year.
Yes Charles.
You'd probably say -- we're going to have pockets of lower price points particularly in the AC category year-over-year.
So we always have those pockets Michael air-conditioning being the one where the commodities tend to be somewhat volatile.
I think as we look out AC is another one where pricing is such and the cost of commodities will take ASPs down this year.
But we'll have other places in the hard parts categories part because of complexity partly because of inflation that will offset some of that.
The next question is from Christopher Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Your gross margin guidance it was down a little bit here in the first quarter.
What changes throughout the year that should allow it to reverse the trend? And then how much of that is getting Remington up to speed from a capacity perspective? Yes.
So maybe I'll start and turn it over to Charles.
So we were pleased in the first quarter and I think we said in our remarks that we came in above our expectations.
Our product margins were good.
What really drove the decline in our margins was the investments in our supply chain.
So as you know we have Remington up fully operational now.
We have more hubs than we had last year.
So our supply chain costs were that and that was somewhat offset by our progress in shrink.
And I do want to pay a real compliment to our retail teams and our support teams that have been driving -- we're achieving record-level shrink.
So that somewhat offset it.
So the 8 basis points decline was driven by that and we mixed in more commercial.
And that's a little -- that can be lost a little bit in the story.
Our commercial penetration our balance -- or mix of sales was over 40% -- 40.8% of our mix.
So that was the drivers in Q1.
And really what we said for the year is it's going to be very similar types of drivers.
Obviously we're going to continue to invest in our supply chain.
We've talked about our second DC that we're investing in.
And then we expect to see continued strength in our product margins continue the benefits in shrink.
And then the 2 offsets to that will be our supply chain and then we're going to continue to mix in a higher mix of commercial.
So it's really -- really we're going to see the same things throughout the balance of the year.
But again we expect that our margins are going to be up modestly and we planned this Q1 to be down.
And that was part of our outlook as well.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So just the math of that and Remington suggests that it sort of gradually moves to positive and -- more positive I guess in the back half? Yes.
Yes.
As you put more stores on Remington you're going to leverage Remington and those costs of Remington.
So they start to come down over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then on the SG&amp;A side any quantification of those drivers more specifically? And can you point us to -- on the cost efficiency side did you see benefits here in the first quarter of the commitment to drive profitability? Or is that still coming? Yes.
So maybe I'll hit your first one first.
The drivers in the quarter of our cost increase was obviously fixed cost deleverage because we did a lower comp and new stores.
So we've ramped up our new stores we saw a lot that we're annualizing now as we -- a lot of the stores that we opened in the back half of last year.
So those were the 2 biggest drivers and they were offset by some adjustments we made in our marketing spend as we adjusted the sales.
And we had favorability in our credit card fees because of the in-sourcing of credit.
So that's what happened in Q1.
The drivers for the year are very similar.
It's going to be new stores.
We do have $0.15 to $0.20 of transition costs for BWP that are built into that number and then higher incentive comp.
And that's for the year.
And that will be somewhat offset by some productivity improvements.
We're expecting to see some more effective marketing spend and some lower admin cost.
So that's what I would tell you for the year.
In terms of our commitment to get to 12% and the improvements we see there very little of that was baked into the first quarter so far.
Research Division</strong> And then on -- just a segue on the BWP integration cost.
You cited $0.01 in the prepared remarks.
You didn't call it out in the actual release.
Can you -- is that all in the SG&amp;A line item? And as those costs become more substantial to get to the $0.15 to $0.20 will you actually call that out in the earnings release? Yes we will.
We may not call out the specifics but we will tell you.
So we had $0.01.
I think Darren mentioned it in his remarks we're really pleased with the first 90 days.
And really our first 90 days we were really focused on 3 things.
One is the transition of the independents and the Armonk DC to GPI.
The second thing we were focused on is building relationships and retaining our team members.
We're really excited to have those parts -- that business as part of our company and their talent.
So that was an important dimension.
And then the third dimension is making sure we're continuing to build and retain the customer relationship.
So that's where our focus was.
Primarily those -- and then the other thing that we did during the quarter was really we built our -- we finished off the integration planning phase.
So as they become -- as the costs -- so that's what really made up the $0.01 in costs.
We're just getting started.
As the costs become more material throughout the year we'll give you visibility at the highest level.
But we still expect at this time that the $0.15 to $0.20 to -- we still expect that that will be the range in which they're going to be.
The next question is from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask about sort of the comp trends and the improvement that you saw towards the end of the quarter.
Can you share with us whether that was -- whether you saw outsized gains in those colder-weather regions? Or did you see improvement in trends in both colder weather and the regions that actually have been hanging in okay? Can you also tell us if it was -- if you saw improvement in commercial and DIY or one versus the other? Yes.
That's my answer to the question Michael.
So we did see -- in the final 2 weeks the spring selling season showed up and we saw gains across the board.
Did the cold-weather markets outperform the other markets? They absolutely did and we expected them to do.
Did DIY come back and commercial accelerate? Yes it did in those 2 weeks.
And those are things -- as I said in my comments we expected to bounce back in April and we expected that bounce-back to be principally in the colder-weather markets.
I would have said in the first 90 days across our markets we underperformed and we underperformed in those seasonal categories of the business for the reasons I talked about before.
When the final 2 weeks came back -- came in they bounced back.
That bounce-back has continued into the first 4 weeks of this quarter.
So it's an encouraging trend for the reasons we've talked about earlier but that's what we saw in terms of the basic parts of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Two more quick questions if I could.
One at your Analyst Day you mentioned that Wal-Mart was becoming more competitive in this space.
Can you update us on what you're seeing there? And then lastly maybe a subtle point but on your new stores you said 2012 was above plan; 2013 in line with plan.
Is it just that we're too early to really get a good read on the 2013 stores? Or is there some reason why they wouldn't be performing as well as the class of 2012? Yes Mike it's Charles.
I think what we said was several years ago we saw how Wal-Mart had made an adjustment into the category.
But certainly from a promotional perspective we have not seen any material difference year-on-year on how I would see them impacting promotional pricing in the marketplace or a change in mix that fundamentally makes any change in the marketplace.
Yes.
And Michael as to the new stores you're right.
The 2012 class certainly outperformed our expectations last year.
They're outperforming our expectations this year.
2013 are at expectations and I think it's for the reasons we mentioned.
It's too early to tell.
And I would have said in light of the slow start to the spring selling season they're actually outperforming expectations.
They continue to do very well as we mix more into commercial in those new stores and the thing that held them back in the first quarter was more DIY than their commercial business.
Our next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If George is available I wanted to ask him if he could talk about his prior experience and accomplishments and how that could help Advance.
And also what are his initial thoughts on the 4 or 5 weeks he's been with the company? George is available.
Sure.
Thanks for the question.
Let me start with prior experience.
I spent the last 4 years with Best Buy on the services side 5 years roughly with the Home Depot and 15 years with Target.
And I think probably the keyword out of those experiences is operations.
A lot of time as a -- virtually every store role from General Manager through Regional Vice President through Senior Vice President of stores operations with the Home Depot.
So I think if you look at things like beginning to accelerate operating income that's going to require a fair amount of execution.
I think you can count on this being a field-led role for me as President.
A lot of time in the stores a lot of time in the distribution centers a lot time away from the support center and that's been the case up until now.
It's been 30 days almost exactly and those 30 days have been in market time in stores in Atlanta and in Virginia; Washington D.C.; Chicago.
Had a chance to go see the hub strategy play out in conjunction with daily delivery with some of the markets that are affected by the Remington daily delivery.
Out to see the e-commerce team on the West Coast in San Jose.
So very initial but I think the observations so far are -- that they are certainly from my standpoint cause for optimism.
I think where daily delivery and hub strategy meets we're seeing as Darren mentioned some nice mid-single-digit lift relative to the control stores.
And I think -- we had the chance to talk to some of our commercial customers.
We're seeing from a customer service standpoint reliability more consistent in-stock level and a plan that's clearly working.
I'd add that -- and this is always a benefit as you know -- anytime you have the chance to simplify operations in stores and retail that's a very good thing.
The stores with daily delivery are easier to run.
There is less of an event around trailer unloading and truck arrivals when it's not 1 large or 2 large weekly shipments but something smaller coming in daily.
That becomes part of the daily routine as opposed to a labor event in the stores.
So we're able to redirect focus more toward customer service and doing well by our customers.
So I think that's -- in a nutshell it is to be an operationally-focused leader for this business and to be out there quite a bit with our store teams our distribution teams in the field and with our customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> During the 30 days you've been with the company and the work in the field do you see any potential easy wins? Any low-hanging fruit in improving execution? Yes.
I think we're clearly moving toward operational plans now.
As Mike and Darren talk about a goal toward -- getting toward 12% op income that requires planning -- I think we're finessing that at the moment and making some changes to it.
I don't know that there are what I would call low-hanging fruit but there are certainly things that we'll begin to address and make improvement of.
Our next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think this is a little bit of a follow-up from the answer we just got.
But you've mentioned twice now you're seeing the mid-single-digit comp lift for the stores receiving the daily delivery.
I guess my question is can you address the profitability of those sales? In other words are the extra sales being justified by the extra costs incurred on that daily delivery? And then related to that how are you going to think about kind of that balance going forward? Yes Scot.
I'd bring you back to -- we are exceeding the pro formas that we built.
When you build a distribution center there are 3 pieces.
One -- as we talk about Remington Remington enabled a few things.
One it enabled growth and the new store growth we're seeing in the upper Midwest principally in our Chicago markets.
So in part that distribution center was positioned 8 years ago -- we just finished before I got here -- to position us for growth.
So certainly that DC is paying for itself in part through the growth we're seeing in those key markets.
Two the daily replenishment as George highlighted in his comments and my comments we're actually exceeding the pro forma that we've built and that's a double delta.
So we are simply comparing to a control store group and we are exceeding those expectations.
Are we blowing them away? We're not blowing them away but I am encouraged that we're -- shoot we're probably a -- our first full quarter we're not even fully operational in terms of all the stores that we'll serve out of that DC and this is the sixth DC I have opened in my career.
And generally it takes the better part of the year to work the bugs out because it's both a new facility a new set of technology a new set of processes and a new team.
So I am pleasantly surprised that we're reporting what we're reporting right now in light of that level of change going into that facility.
And then lastly it comes down to the cost of running the building.
If you remember part of how we're paying for it is that that sales lift has to pay for the incremental transportation.
And it's certainly paying for it.
But the other thing that it just takes time to measure it will get measured in customer retention on the commercial customer side.
So that longer-term commercial customer retention if we think about that in terms of oh I don't know lifetime value customers there's a big benefit to that that quite frankly we're not going to know the answer to that for probably another year.
But what we can see so far in customer behavior in terms of our bigger accounts we like what we see.
And so I'm very encouraged that we're this early in the journey both in terms of enabling growth seeing the lift in a way that certainly pays for the transportation.
We can -- we're still working through the cost side of the technology and the people.
More importantly the longer-term benefit is in the commercial customer retention and availability for the DIY customer when they come in and the longer-term profitability that comes from that.
And just to -- I think what we want you to hear is we're optimistic.
It's still early.
We're seeing lifts on both sides of the business.
Also as we mix in more parts these -- we're expecting that that will be accretive to our margin as well.
And then we're expecting down the road to see labor productivity.
These are automated DCs.
And like I said it's early -- still early.
Our next question is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the same theme I guess given the success you've seen in daily delivery is there any thought about accelerating the Connecticut distribution center that's sort of next in the pipeline? Or I guess when would we expect to see that opening up? We have our plans in place in terms of the investments we have to make around building that facility.
We are on target for a third quarter plan for 2014.
It's pretty complicated.
So yes we would always love to want to accelerate but we want to stick to our plan and do it the right way to make sure that we execute the opening and fulfill the need for those stores.
So the teams are focused on it.
They're taking their learnings from Remington.
They're doing some parallel parking through Remington into Connecticut.
So we expect to open in the expected time frame that we announced before.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one question on the commercial given the national account sales focus.
Could you tell us of the 40% that's commercial in the mix what would you consider sort of national account versus up and down the street business? And maybe compare the growth rates given the accelerated focus on national accounts and maybe the -- it may be lumpy but clearly some bigger wins when you get them.
Yes Bret.
Usually what I do is -- in part we're not going to go into all of those details in terms of how we're focusing our national account strategy.
But I'll say this is that over the first quarter what we did see is our national account business led the way.
I mean we saw business in terms of national accounts that was closer to higher-single-digit comps than the overall comps for the business.
So as you recall -- I mean you've been following us for a while we started to build the business I would say principally through the mom-and-pop business up and down the street.
We've made good headway in terms of the regional accounts.
Our national account penetration is rolling.
I'm very pleased in terms of how the team performed in the first quarter.
As I said in my comments our focused customer retention this quarter we exceeded our plans and our expectations for the quarter.
So all in all I think we continue to walk that journey in terms of Advance growing its business with the right accounts and focusing our attention in terms of the service levels.
Our next question is from Peter Keith with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> On the commercial credit program as you called it out as actual benefit to SG&amp;A I don’t recall seeing that before.
Is there some aspect to that that that's now beginning to grow more quickly? Or is just other pieces of the business outside of it are changing in terms of how everything flows through the income statement? Yes.
So maybe just specifically how it flows through the P&amp;L.
Prior to us in-sourcing it we used to pay -- let's call them credit card fees to HSBC who used to run our program.
When we in-sourced it we now have people doing that and systems doing that.
When you net all that together we're seeing benefits on the credit card discount line so that when we talk about benefits to SG&amp;A that's specifically what we're talking about.
In terms of the program I mean there are 3 primary benefits on that.
One is we expect this to be a key enabler to grow our commercial business.
Our team members have an opportunity now to have -- put customers whether its controlled limits and the approvals and things like that.
So we think we can drive our commercial business.
So that's the first benefit.
The second benefit is we just give a better service level when we handle things internally.
So now all the touch points with our customers are done with us.
So whether it's through a store through a sales associate through our SSC or through our call centers we're doing all that so we can give better service levels to the customers.
And then the third one is the one you hit is we expect that this credit program will also hurt our -- or help our costs as well through lower credit card discounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Mike.
So is it -- now that you say you've had it in-house for a couple of quarters is it now beginning to accelerate for you? Yes.
So maybe I'll talk about the penetration.
I think we've talked before that the leaders in the industry are over 80% credit penetration and we were in the low 40s when we started this.
We're slowly making our way.
Now we're in the high-40s.
We'll probably get to 60 before we get to 80.
But I think we're working collaboratively across our organization.
We're building the muscle across our -- whether it's with our commercial sales teams our retail field teams and our credit group to actually build a program that we can go to the customer.
So we're early on.
We think it's going to happen over a matter of years but it's going to be a really important key enabler to helping our commercial growth.
But it will be over years.
Our next question is from Craig Kennison with Robert W Baird.
Research Division</strong> With the success you're seeing at Remington so far -- it's exciting on the comp side -- what do you see in terms of the cost required to build future DCs? Do you see an opportunity in other words to reduce the expenditure required to advance that strategy? Yes Craig we certainly do.
So Remington is going to be the most expensive facility that we build and I say that because it both reflects our new WMS system it reflects the workforce that was brand-new in terms of just teaching them the distribution processes for the company.
And naturally it's going to experience all the bumps in terms of process and learnings of all the DCs.
Enfield will be cheaper because we'll be able to take the footprint and avoid some of the natural startup challenges one has in a new DC.
I think the material cost savings that we'll see is that we're on the -- we're building the blueprints now to ask the question given our existing facilities "How quickly can we retrofit them versus build new?" We don't have a complete answer for that now.
The teams are working on that as we speak.
But to the extent we retrofit them the good news is we can materially get the CapEx costs down.
What you give up is some of the ongoing SG&amp;A or labor efficiencies because you won't be able to essentially get the same level of technology in.
But the teams are evaluating that now.
We're optimistic we'll end up with both the build profile and the retrofit profile.
So as we grow our business west of the Mississippi we certainly have a footprint that we see in terms of Remington and Enfield.
East of the Mississippi we're looking for a solution in terms of retrofit.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to housekeeping here how many commercial programs did you end the quarter with? 3 300.
Right Josh? Yes.
And 16 yes.
3 316 if you're keeping score.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I will now turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our first quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me Joshua Moore at (952) 715-5076.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also today's conference is being recorded.
Before we begin Kevin Quinn Vice President Finance will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially including competitive pressures demand for the company's products the economy in general consumer debt levels dependence on foreign suppliers the weather business interruptions and other factors disclosed in the company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29 2012 and other documents the company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found in our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our third quarter 2013 earnings release is scheduled for October 31 before the market opens and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday October 31 2013.
To be notified of dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations website.
Finally a replay of this call will be made available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter conference call.
And I'd like to start off by thanking our 54 000 team members for their hard work and dedication as we continue to strive to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who'll provide you with an update on our 2013 priorities; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financials.
While we are pleased with our nearly 100 basis point gain in operating income rate achieved in the quarter which resulted from improvement in our gross profit rate and more disciplined expense control we are disappointed with our comparable store sales performance.
As we shared with you on the first quarter call despite our positive start to the second quarter our sales outlook remained guarded to ensure the sustainability of yearly trends.
Shortly after the call our sales softened and the weakness continued throughout the rest of the quarter leading to a comparable store sales decline of 0.3%.
Our comparable store sales decline was driven by our DIY business and partially offset by an increase in our commercial sales.
While our sales were softer than expected in the quarter we believe that the long-term fundamentals of the industry remain positive.
Some of these factors include the increasing age of vehicles which are now over 11 years with 70% of those vehicles over 7 years old stabilizing gas prices and increasing number of miles driven.
However as we discussed last quarter we are still dealing with several unfavorable macro factors including more consumers contemplating the purchase of new vehicles which creates some short-term volatility as consumers are selective about how much more money to spend on aging vehicles.
The economy also remains challenged by higher payroll taxes high unemployment and financial stress on our core customers.
Further in an economy of necessity consumers are only performing repairs that are absolutely necessary to keep their vehicles on the road.
As a result deferred maintenance remains at record levels.
For example our base oil business which is core to our maintenance business was down low single-digits in Q2.
Conversely we are encouraged by the turnaround in our brake and ride control business after a tough first quarter.
Additionally we saw significant impacts to seasonal categories of our business due to one of the wettest second quarters on record in the eastern half of the United States versus record heat in the southwest.
These weather conditions helped drive double-digit increases in wiper sales and lifted the gross margin rates but at the same time had a significant negative sales impact on several seasonal categories like wash and wax air conditioning and radiators.
Our comparable store sales shortfall was offset by improvements in our gross margin and disciplined expense control in the quarter.
The team effectively managed our gross profit rate to 50.3% which was 40 basis points greater than Q2 of last year despite continuing headwinds from full operations of our new Remington distribution facility.
Similarly our diligent expense management resulted in an SG&amp;A rate of 37.7% in the quarter.
The rate improved 58 basis points in the second quarter versus Q2 last year.
We saw improvements across all areas of the business in the store support center field infrastructure and labor productivity as measured by our sales per hour.
We believe that some of the pullbacks cut into our top line growth in select areas.
That being said it was consistent with our profitable sales growth and long-term 12% operating margin goals as a company.
Culturally the focus on achieving profitable sales growth will result in quarters like this one.
Striking the right balance is important and I'm proud of how the team delivered on our bottom line goals.
Overall we remain committed to our 2 core strategies of service leadership and superior availability.
Collectively the company financial objective is to expand our operating margins to 12% over the next 3 years.
Our second quarter operating income rate improvement of 98 basis points is a solid step towards our goals.
Mike will share more details in a moment.
In 2013 we introduced our company to one focus on the fundamentals as our core objective that will guide us for the foreseeable future.
Similarly the outcome to make the day for our customers which drives our sales and profitability is the measure of success.
Broadly when I step back and look at the direction of Advance over the last 5 years we remain on track with our original mission focus of diversifying the position of the company to reflect the broader auto aftermarket.
Structurally the customers and the addressable $40 billion market for Commercial is nearly double the size of DIY and growing at 2x the rate of DIY.
Our Commercial business is expected to be over $2.5 billion by the end of 2013 and will represent approximately 40% of our business which is up from $1.5 billion 5 years ago.
We remain committed to the original mission.
Our growth has been driven by focusing on basic core capabilities to serve Commercial customers including improved availability sales force development Commercial Parts Pro deployment delivery driver and truck expansion B2B and other capabilities.
The buildup of these basic core capabilities are complete with few exceptions.
The key remaining capabilities are our daily replenishment supply chain and our commercially focused EPC which are still in the very early stages of rollout.
These capabilities position us to take our sales per advanced commercial program which stands at $640 000 to much higher levels over time.
We intend to complete our daily replenishment centers and retrofits over the next 5 years and our EPC rollout in 2014.
Capabilities though important only enable growth whereas consistency of our sales service and operations are required to take the next step in accelerating our business.
Growth and focus on the fundamentals has supplanted building capabilities as our key objective for the next 5 years.
Predictably growth includes our new commercially formatted stores our BWP commercial acquisition and commercial services including MotoLogic DriverSide and Keylink.
The customer channel growth that we've prioritized for 2013 has been our Commercial National Accounts.
I am very pleased that Monroe has expanded its business with us in the quarter and Goodyear has awarded us with first call status in key parts of the country.
National Accounts were a natural next step in our commercial growth and they're growing at double digits in 2013.
Looking ahead heavy duty fleet PP&amp;E government and banner programs are still ahead of us which our key competitors include in their numbers today.
Holistically diversifying our business while adding more growth options will enhance both our financial and business objectives.
Focus on the fundamentals is about prioritizing consistency over building new capabilities.
Consistency in our sales service and operational execution is always easier said than done.
Our recent management changes to more tightly integrate the leadership sales and operations of our business are expressly focused on the cultural and operational priorities of the business specifically the need to simplify our operations while consistently raising the level of service is what George will discuss in a few moments.
Overall the results for the second quarter are encouraging including our 6.1% total sales gain driven by our growth including the acquired BWP stores and our new stores.
Our Autoparts International sales grew 13% during the second quarter versus the second quarter last year while improving our operating income by 21%.
We continue to grow the number of stores served out of our new Remington Distribution Center and are seeing the expected sales lift.
Fundamentally both our gross margin rate and sales per labor hour performance reached near-record levels in the quarter as well.
Finally the leaders that are focused on moving from building capabilities to driving sales and operational excellence began the transition into their new roles this quarter.
In closing I'd like to share an example of how growth and focus on the fundamentals bring "service is our best part" to life.
Under the leadership of Regional Vice President Morgan Schafer I'm proud to announce that tomorrow we are opening our 4 000th store which will be located in Montgomery New York.
This is a significant milestone in the company's history and further evidence of our commitment to long-term growth and continuing to serve our customers I couldn't be prouder of Morgan and his team District Leader Michelle Murphy and General Manager Melissa Mertey [ph] as they prepare to open this new store.
Morgan is a consistent leader with proven results and I'm excited about the work he will continue to lead for us.
This new store is also another example of continued expansion in the Northeast which is a strategic growth area for us.
Morgan Michelle and Melissa thank you for your roles in this historic achievement in Advance's history.
Lastly as you know George Sherman joined us as President about 90 days ago.
And I'm excited that he is taking ownership in ramping up on much of our operational work he will update you on today.
I'm encouraged by the progress we have made in our strategic initiatives and I know under George's leadership we will continue to see positive results in these areas.
While we are not satisfied with our comp store sales we feel that the progress we made on the gross margin and SG&amp;A is a step in the right direction.
I have confidence that George will lead us to accomplishing our previously stated goal of getting 12% operating income rate in the next 3 years while also driving increased sales.
I will now turn the call over to George to update you on the work he is leading on our 5 key priorities that support our 2013 objectives.
George? Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
I too would like to thank our over 54 000 team members for their commitment to customer service while making strides in our 2013 priorities during the quarter.
During my first 90 days I had the opportunity to visit stores in many markets visit with Commercial customers and also spend time with our support staff at our offices.
I'm excited at the potential I see in our team members and customers.
Realizing the potential of each and every team member and customer will be critical to our success in 2013 and beyond.
I'll now provide you with an update in our 5 key priorities that support our 2013 objectives of growth and focus on the fundamentals.
First growing our Commercial business through improved levels of delivery speed and reliability and increased customer retention and share wallet with national and regional customers.
Our delivery speeds continue to improve across-the-board and commercial credit penetration continues to grow as a result of our insource credit program.
We're proud to be able to add Goodyear to our growing national accounts base and we're continuing to grow our national accounts.
We also saw double-digit growth in our national and regional accounts during second quarter which is a critical component of our Commercial growth strategy.
While B2B e-commerce business is up roughly 40% in the quarter and we continue to be pleased with the industry-leading e-services offerings we have for our Commercial customers.
As a result of these efforts we saw positive comp store sales gains in our Commercial sales.
When including the acquired BWP stores our mix of business in Commercial during the quarter grew to 40.3% versus 38.1% during the second quarter of 2012.
Second improving our local market availability.
Our work continues to increase the number of hubs that we operate through the new store openings and the upgrade of existing stores that had the space and are strategically located to operate as hubs.
Throughout the second quarter we've expanded our hub store count to 354 which is an increase of 34 since the second quarter last year.
We also continue to see progress with our operations at our Remington DC.
As previously stated we anticipate 400 stores will be serviced by Remington this year.
Through our second quarter we have 355 stores receiving shipments from Remington at least once per week with more than half of those stores receiving daily replenishment.
The results of the stores receiving daily delivery continues to be promising as they've been achieving the expected sales lift since receiving their deliveries versus their control source within the region driven by parts categories.
We're still in the early stages and we'll continue to monitor results over the next several months before we can draw any definitive conclusions.
Third expanding our new store footprint.
As you'll recall we completed the acquisition of 124 BWP stores at the beginning of the fiscal year we're well into the full integration of the BWP stores into Advance stores and the sales and profitability of the BWP stores are currently exceeding our expectations.
Most importantly during the transition we're remaining focused on employee retention and customer service.
Our first 2 stores have been successfully converted our product lines are beginning to roll through the supply chain and we expect to convert approximately 40% of the stores by year-end.
We remain on track for finishing the integration by mid-2014 consistent with the timeframe previously communicated.
During the quarter we added 21 new Advance Auto Parts stores and 5 new Autopart International stores keeping us on track for a more aggressive new store opening plan this year.
The performance of our 2012 and 2013 classes of stores continue to exceed expectations primarily driven by a faster ramp-up of Commercial business than previous classes of new stores.
Fourth focus on fundamentals starts with consistently executing to exceed our customers' expected service levels.
While we saw positive signs during the quarter with our increased dollars per transaction units per transaction and [indiscernible] sales productivity along with our improved customer satisfaction levels better profitability and low return rates we realize this is an area where we need to drive improvement.
As part of this focus we're continuing to improve the level of individual performance to maximize every customer engagement.
These efforts include improving our scheduling effectiveness and team member product training which leads to increasing our customer order size by providing our customers with the full solution all the time in order for them to get the job right the first time.
In addition we are enhancing our commercial model to enable a higher rate of growth including empowering our field teams to meet the demands of our Commercial customers.
This includes simplifying how we run our stores including report in cash reductions process improvements and placing a clear field-wide focus on business and customer outcomes.
Fifth and finally improving our profitability for increasing our efficiency and effectiveness to other support areas and our store operating model.
The work that our leaders have been doing locally and collectively to identify and deliver efficiencies in our business is a contributing factor to putting us on our trajectory to achieve accelerated profitability and reduce our SG&amp;A per store gap versus our industry peers.
For example the insourcing of our commercial credit processing has significantly reduced the cost of processing those transactions.
Additionally we developed a long-term incentive program designed to accelerate both our profitability and growth.
Collectively our company priorities remain intensely focused on operations to drive results through customer service enabled through outstanding and consistent execution.
Again I've enjoyed my first 3 months with Advance and could not be more excited about the future growth opportunities for the company.
I look forward to continuing to update you on these important priorities in the future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented team members for their continued efforts to improve our business and serve our customers as we navigated through our second quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: 1 provide some financial highlights from our second quarter of 2013; 2 put our second quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and 3 provide some insights on the remainder of 2013.
As we shared on our first quarter earnings call we were encouraged with the strong start we had to our second quarter and we were somewhat tempered with our sales expectations.
Looking forward as we were unclear of how much of our strong start was the result of a bounceback from the delayed spring versus a fundamental rebound in consumer demand.
We are not satisfied with our second quarter comp sales performance which softened in the final 6 weeks of the quarter after tracking up 2% in the first 6 weeks.
We believe this softness was the result of record levels of precipitation in our core markets and a continued challenging macroeconomic environment on our consumer such as increased payroll taxes.
While we are disappointed with negative comps sales our operating profits grew 15.1% versus second quarter last year and exceeded expectations driven by both an increase in gross profit rate and disciplined expense management which led to a 98 basis point increase in our operating income rate of 12.6% for the quarter as we work towards our longer-term operating margin goal of 12%.
We remain focused on influencing the things that are in our direct control and positioning our company for longer-term growth and profitability by maintaining our strategic focus executing on the fundamentals and simplifying our operations.
While we are pleased with our bottom line results during the quarter we realize in order to achieve our 12% goal we must improve our sales performance while continuing the disciplined spending we've exhibited over the last 2 quarters.
As a result of the weaker consumer demand and record levels of precipitation throughout the majority of the eastern half of the United States our comp store sales decreased 0.3%.
Our total sales however increased 6.1% to $1.5 billion driven by the acquisition of BWP and the net addition of 175 new stores over the past 12 months.
Our comp store sales decrease was driven by declines in our DIY sales partially offset by positive growth in Commercial sales.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 4.3% to $3.6 billion and our comp store sales declined 2%.
Our gross profit rate in the second quarter was 50.3% versus 49.9% in the second quarter of 2012 or an increase of 40 basis points.
The increase was primarily due to higher merchandising margins driven by lower product acquisition costs and a favorable product mix partially offset by planned increases in supply chain costs associated with the operation of our new Remington DC and the impact of BWP sales which have a lower gross margin rate due to their higher mix of Commercial sales.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate increased 30 -- 13 basis points to 50.1% from 50% over the same time period last year.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 37.7% decreased 58 basis points versus the second quarter of 2012 primarily driven by the timing of last year's company-wide leadership meeting lower marketing expense improved labor productivity and a decrease in credit card fees as a result of the insourcing of our commercial credit program.
These were partially offset by higher incentive compensation due to individual store team member performance and operating income growth fixed cost deleverage as a result of our negative comparable store sales and increased new store openings.
Year-to-date our SG&amp;A rate increased 46 basis points to 39% versus 38.5% over the same period last year.
All in our operating income was $194.7 million which was an increase of 15.1% versus second quarter of 2012.
This exceeded expectations and is a testament to our ability to drive our gross profit expansion and the team's disciplined focus on expense management despite softer comp store sales performance.
Our operating income rate increased 98 basis points to 12.6% in the second quarter.
The increased operating income rate came both from our Advance stores as well as our Autopart International business which grew operating income over 20% during the quarter.
Our EPS increased 18.7% versus Q2 last year to $1.59 per share and includes $0.01 of transition costs associated with the integration of BWP.
We still anticipate the transition of BWP will occur over an 18-month period from acquisition and the associated costs with 2013 to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.20.
Through the first half of 2013 our operating income dollars increased 1.3% to $398.8 million and our diluted EPS increased 2.9% to $3.23 including $0.03 of BWP integration costs.
Year-to-date free cash flow is $27.9 million which is down 89.5% over the same period last year primarily as a result of the acquisition of BWP.
Excluding the net impact of the acquisition our free cash flow would have been $198.3 million compared to $265.4 million over the same time period last year primarily due to an unfavorable change in owned inventory offset by less capital expenditures.
Our owned inventory is approximately flat to Q2 2012 and our accounts payable to inventory ratio is 85.1% versus 82.9% in the second quarter of 2012.
Our total inventory increased 14.8% driven by our new Remington DC more hubs more new stores and the acquisition of BWP.
This increase was higher than our expectations due to a lower-than-anticipated sales performance.
At the end of the second quarter we had roughly $605 million of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.2x which is below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
We continue to measure our performance of our business through the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
We continue to prioritize growth as our primary use of capital in order to increase returns and drive shareholder value.
As a result our focus continues to be on accelerating our commercial growth and stabilizing our DIY business.
We plan to achieve this goal by improving our availability through our hub store openings inventory upgrades supply chain investments and strengthening our market position with increased new store openings.
We are proud of our improved coverage and in-market availability driven by the areas that George covered.
We're also proud of the accelerated pace of our new store openings including the net addition of 21 new stores in the second quarter.
This includes the opening of 21 new Advance Auto Parts stores and 5 new Autopart International stores offset by the closing of 3 Advance stores one Autopart International store and the consolidation of one BWP store into an existing Advance store.
At the end of Q2 our total store count was 3 990.
Including the acquisition of BWP in Q1 we've increased our net store count by 298 over the last 12 months.
We remain on pace to open 170 to 190 new Advance Auto Parts stores and Autopart International stores this year.
We continue to prioritize our use of capital to drive shareholder value by first investing in the business; second looking at strategic opportunities; and thirdly returning money to shareholders through share repurchases.
In every case we have taken a disciplined approach to capital deployment weighing the long-term value creation opportunities of each.
Over the past several quarters we have built up our cash position as we wanted to maintain financial flexibility as we assess a range of organic and inorganic growth investments in our business.
As our industry continues to consolidate we believe there maybe opportunities which will enable us to drive profitable growth and value creation particularly in the commercial space.
As we evaluate these opportunities we are focused on driving attractive financial returns like we have achieved with our recent acquisition of BWP which year-to-date has added $0.04 per share to our earnings.
With this context year-to-date we have deployed over $250 million of capital in a manner consistent with our priorities.
This includes investing approximately $180 million in our acquisition of BWP and returning approximately $75 million to shareholders via share repurchases including $15.7 million in our second quarter.
At the end of the quarter we had roughly $418 million left under our share repurchase authorization and our average diluted share count was 73.3 million shares.
As we have said before we take a long-term view and look beyond individual quarters in making our capital allocation decisions as we balance investment opportunities against returning capital to shareholders.
Ultimately our focus is on maximizing long-term value to shareholders in a manner consistent with our capital allocation priorities.
And to that end we do not intend to maintain our current levels of excess cash beyond the short to medium term.
Turning to profit.
We are pleased that despite softer sales we were able to exceed our profit expectations in the second quarter.
During the quarter the 98 basis point increase in our operating margins was driven by some of the key drivers we have identified that will help us get to our long-term goal of 12% operating margins.
They include gross profit margin improvements driven by our merchant and field teams in the areas of merchandising capabilities global sourcing and the execution and continued improvement in areas like shrink.
We also made progress in our expense management where our field teams delivered record labor productivity as measured by our sales per labor hour.
And we continue to lower our administrative and support costs in areas such as professional fees and credit card fees.
As a reminder the pathway to our 12% goal requires sales growth modest gross profit improvement and a significant improvement in our cost efficiency and execution.
While we are disappointed with our comp store sales performance during the quarter we believe our gross profit and SG&amp;A progress is a solid step in the right direction.
As a result of our commitment to build a more competitive cost structure while funding strategic investments and to employ a more disciplined approach to expense management our total SG&amp;A dollars per store decreased slightly to $654 000 per store in our second quarter versus $656 000 during the second quarter of 2012.
With respect to value creation we have maintained our disciplined approach to capital which is reflected in our return on invested capital of 18.5%.
For the quarter our ROIC decreased 136 basis points versus the second quarter last year as a result of our increased invested capital due to the acquisition of BWP the insourcing of our commercial credit and the accelerated pace of our new store openings.
Longer term we see opportunities to improve our ROIC as we begin to generate benefits from our Remington DC our acquisition of BWP and as our sales from our new store openings begin to ramp.
We also see opportunities to reduce our net owned inventory as we move towards our goal of achieving an AP ratio of 100%.
Turning to the balance of the year given our year-to-date comp of minus 2% we are now expecting comps will be slightly down for the full year.
We continue to expect our gross profit rate will increase modestly and we'll continue to adjust our costs appropriately given our sales trends to deliver on our profit expectations.
All in we continue to be confident at this time in our ability to deliver the previously shared earnings per share annual outlook of $5.30 to $5.45.
In closing we are committed to our strategies in Commercial and availability and remain confident in the industry fundamentals and how we are positioned as a company.
We are focused on improving our sales performance while continuing to improve our profitability and strengthening our returns to continue to drive shareholder value.
We also want to thank our 54 000 team members who lead us every day with their relentless focus on service and commitment to operational excellence and execution which are key ingredients to delivering on our goals.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I've got I guess 1 or 2 quick ones.
First I just want to make sure we understand the impact of the inventory accumulation on gross margin.
Some of the companies we've dealt with including I think U-Haul a couple of years ago from time to time get some benefit from UNICAP when the inventory's up to a greater degree in sales I guess having to do with timing of capitalizing versus expensing distribution.
Has this been and is it a factor for you as we think about gross margin here in Q2? Matt it's Michael Norona.
No it wasn't.
If you're referring to LIFO LIFO was actually a little bit of a headwind a little bit of an expense for us in the quarter but it was offset by some of the other things that we adjust prices and things like that.
But no inventory and LIFO had no impact on our gross margin during the quarter.
True.
A fair amount of the inventory build Mike is you got to put into it Matt BWP in the quarter.
Our new store count year-over-year is up 175 and Remington in the quarter.
So I think when you get down to the core Advance inventory growth it's nominal in terms of inventory growth for the quarter.
Yes Matt.
The inventory growth in the quarter was 14.8% for the areas primarily driven by the areas that Darren just talk about.
And we expect that to normalize throughout the year and the growth at the end of the year will be more modest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question relates to costs.
Clearly your operating margin is outperforming expectations as your sales to some degree underperformed I think your own expectations.
And Darren you referred in your comments to perhaps some of your cost cuts having weighed on sales.
I know you have a 12% margin bogey and that seems to be the driving force behind your strategic direction.
Given that the top line is lagging a bit are you considering perhaps reinvesting a bit more? And do you think incremental expense dollars would help the top line story? Yes.
Matt that's a natural question.
It's certainly a question for us.
I would say this -- what's important is staying consistent with our team as we shared with you and many that we went into this year focused on consistency and profitable sales growth.
As you go to achieve that pool there will be cuts that you make in certain parts of the business.
Honestly where you give up the sales dollar but you save an expense dollar and that the profitability of the company improves a bit for us.
We know we have gaps relative to some of our competitors in the industry.
And so we're trying to do that very thoughtfully.
And in my comments there was as many expense dollar takeouts in what I would say the store support center the regional field infrastructure.
And as we think about the stores our field organization one of our focuses is a proxy organization where do we have productivity opportunities and that really is location by location and in many ways team member by team member.
There's no doubt in my mind that as we make some of those adjustments and you have to go through that process we're going to give up some sales momentum in parts of the business.
That being said the other thing that we're growing through is that in the last 12 months we've added nearly 300 stores.
And so as you ramp up the new store growth the core new stores continue to meet or exceed targets in terms of sales growth and profitability.
I couldn't be more thrilled with BWP.
As Mike talked about earlier we're balancing bringing Remington up to speed.
So there are many places where we continue to invest looking at the long-term growth profile hence the 6% sales growth that we saw in the business and growing Remington our margin was up 40 basis points in the quarter.
But that's a constrained margin given the cost that we had to overcome in Remington this quarter as well.
So as I've said in my comments we have to strike a balance so we'll have these quarters where we have the combination.
Our seasonal categories quite frankly were very tough for us in the quarter; that constrained some of our comp store growth materially in places of the country.
And in other places we achieved a total sales growth that we were looking for too but it's not lost on me that we have to strike the right balance.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Darren it looks like the 2-year stack comp sales performance took a turn for the worse in the second quarter.
And based on your guidance it looks like that continues for the balance of the year.
It appears that all of this deterioration is due to the weakness in your Do-It-Yourself channel yet during your prepared comments and George's prepared comments all of the discussion was focused on Commercial.
Just surprised that there's not a greater level of urgency on resuscitating the Do-It-Yourself business given it's still 60% of your total revenues.
Yes.
Dan that's -- you're right.
We were pleased with the sales gains that we continue to see in our Commercial business.
Our DIY business was challenged again in the quarter.
Organizationally we looked across the organization we have the team focused on -- in terms of the DIY business and we talked about before across all of our organization that growth really is growing the basket.
We saw again in this quarter across the industry units continue to be challenged in the industry.
I would say one of the things that started to weaken our sales trends because we actually started the quarter in a good place in our DIY business our seasonal categories in DIY particularly air conditioning wash and wax they tend to kick in this time here.
In the south we saw the wiper business clearly pick up for us and I continue to believe that for DIY consumer and again the way they're recovering in our economy are uneven across the country too that that pressure that's on that core customer in some of our core markets just continues to be higher.
So organizationally we're focused on what we can control which is the customer in front of us and trying to make sure that we're serving them the best and filling that basket in front of them.
George would you like to add anything? Yes I think there's a couple of other initiatives on the DIY side of the business.
One is around store simplification.
I think when you look at our stores we have a lot of metrics we have a lot of messages we're saying in the stores and we're rapidly cutting back on that.
So cash management and getting our teams focused on power hours the main portions of the business day when our customers tend to come into the -- our DIY retail stores is a key focus area for us as long as -- along with the DIY dollars per transaction that Darren mentioned as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up Mike in the past you had indicated that that 12% operating margin goal would be contingent on comp sales growth of around 2% based on the reduction in the payroll hours.
Are you now thinking you can achieve that 12% EBIT goal with less than a 2% comp? Yes.
So maybe Dan what we've said is in order to get 12% we really need 3 things.
We need to have sales growth.
And I think the assumption we've made is in around that 2% growth and that kind of makes the assumption that the DIY is on a total basis is flat and Commercial is in that 1% to 3% 2% to 4% range.
And we always expect to overperform the market so that's the assumption in how we get to 2%.
And absolutely it starts with -- we have to get the sales growing and I think Darren and George both in their remarks and just now shared that that is a primary focus for us.
The second element is modest margin improvements and we've talked about -- it would make good progress in the quarter and we continue to see some upside in our margins.
And then the other aspect is in terms of our cost.
And you mentioned taking hours out.
That's not how we actually think about our labor.
We actually think about our labor as getting more productive.
In the last number of years we've invested a number of tools around performance management and we're doing better performance management within our store.
And we now have tools to measure individual productivity.
And I think we think about it more on improving the productivity but we need to have all 3.
So -- and I think you asked the question around the outlook.
One of the things -- one of the reasons we're able to maintain our outlook is the progress we're making on the pathway to 12% and how we're doing with respect to our margins and our cost.
And I think the last time in our remarks that we said we were kind of guided to the lower end of the range we think we're firmly in the range now partially because of our beak [ph] during the second quarter and the continued improvements we see coming for the back half of the year.
The next question is from Michael Montani from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> One question I had was if you think about the gross margin rate improvement that you had this quarter and then rolling out to increase the penetration of national accounts how are you able to have the conviction that the gross margins could continue to expand in the back half of the year? Maybe if you can expand a bit on some of the initiatives there that you have under way including Remington.
And then just a follow-up after that.
Yes sure.
Charles why don't you talk about gross margin improvements going forward and I'll take the national accounts.
Yes I mean as we look through the quarter we continue to see benefit from product acquisition costs.
Some of that pricing work that we continue to drive through.
So while we planned for our margins in national accounts and as we -- the team had done a great job in expanding that business.
We built that entire plan for Q3 and Q4 so we've got good visibility to what we see the impact of mix is going to be and we feel comfortable with the guidance that we put out there.
Yes.
And like Mike said on national accounts to be honest the way we look at it is gross margin dollar productivity.
And so those national accounts as I said in my prepared remarks what we're pleased about is we're growing our business with Monroe again this quarter.
Goodyear has awarded us first call in parts of the country.
And those businesses tend to be growing those national accounts.
For us they're growing at double-digit rates.
And they tend to be a higher average ticket.
And so if you think about the economics of Commercial when you have a higher average ticket a higher average truck rule that can be a very profitable transaction versus just chasing margin rate on some of the low end.
I think we've talked before and I tried to highlight in my comments that think about it this is a business that you stand in line and earn your way up first call status.
And so you earn your way up the reward tends to be a higher basket and you end up in some cases as you serve those larger customers you may give up some rate at the bottom end but you certainly add more profit dollars to the overall organization.
Research Division</strong> And then a housekeeping question which is really -- if you could quantify the sales dollars of BWP this quarter? And then obviously with the great progress on national accounts should we think about that as mid-single-digit percentage of the business? Is there a way to help sort of contextualize that there? Yes I'll take the first part and then I'll let Darren take the second part.
So Mike we're not going to quantify -- we've integrated BWP as we think about it as part of our growing our Commercial business.
I will hum a few bars we're extremely pleased with that acquisition so far.
The quality of people we have the capabilities around Commercial we're learning a lot from that business.
And also we're very pleased with what we've been able to do in the stores to retain our customers and we think they're going to provide us with a lot of benefits looking forward at helping us build out our commercial capabilities.
But we think about that as embedded in our -- we had a positive commercial growth in the quarter.
They don't count towards our comp yet.
They're in our total sales growth of 6.1% and we're very pleased with how that acquisition has started off.
Yes.
And Michael I would say this is that if you look across all of national accounts we're still well below a double-digit penetration as a company.
We don't give out specific targets for competitive reasons but it has been a focus area for growth this year and we continue quarter in and quarter out to make double-digit progress in terms of the growth of that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just say one last question which is I think key to the investment thesis is really when you look at the comp guidance it seems to imply that you all could go positive in the back half of the year despite you mentioned sort of negative trends in the last 6 weeks.
Is there anything specific that you could point to to sort of inflect the comp in the back half as the compares are easy but sort of similar? And is there initiatives that you have going on that you can point to specifically or just help us form your view and thought process? Yes.
So Michael a couple of things.
So as we get to the back half of the year a couple of things happen.
One as we said in our prepared remarks we certainly like the turnaround that we've seen in the friction business.
We like the bounce back that we saw in the ride control business.
The other thing that becomes important to us as we begin the fourth quarter we begin to anniversary some of the new store growth that we focused on last year.
So we're going through a full year of ramping up new store growth which tends to put pressure on the comp because when you're opening stores in new markets that will put a little pressure on the comp.
You don't have the benefit yet of anniversary-ing those comps.
We'll begin to anniversary those comps in the fourth quarter of this year.
They tend to have been new store growth in cold-weather markets that tend to hit their stride as you're going into the back half on the Commercial side of the business.
Now we all take a step down seasonally in the back half but we have been positioning those maintenance categories new store growth and as we talked about seeing some signs of that deferred maintenance cycle particularly in the brake business start to -- start to life again which tends to be better for us particularly in those colder weather markets which were tough a year ago.
The next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess one of the questions I have is you've been trying to make a lot of changes to the business over the last couple of years.
Is there anything structurally or maybe even just philosophically that you've made to the business as you focus more and more on Commercial and maybe it's had an adverse impact on the DIY segment? Well I think more broadly Scot I mean you asked about a philosophical change.
I think it is certainly getting ourselves squarely wrapped around sales and service as the key outcomes in the store.
I mentioned we've sent a lot of messages to stores and sometimes that begins to cloud what's most important.
We're eliminating tasks we're eliminating reports we're eliminating metrics.
We are changing our focus in getting our teams squarely focused on sales and service every day.
Outcomes not inputs.
So that is work that we've been working on with the field team over the last couple of weeks.
That messaging is being cascaded across our stores.
Our teams want to hear it.
It leeches [ph] them on sales so I do think that there's going to be an orientation change as to how we run our business which is a more of a field-centric led organization.
Having great dialogue market-by-market on what we need to do to drive our business while really getting our team focused around selling.
LLC Research Division</strong> In previous conversations with the management team I know you haven't been privy to all of these but my sense was that the company is -- that there's certain structural parts of the business that are just fundamentally different from commercial versus retailer.
And I guess my question is have any of the changes that you've made as you try and really refocus the company on being a commercial provider had an adverse impact in any way shape or form on DIY segment? Well if you get all the way down the store level Scot you think about a general manager 5 years ago what we asked that general manager to do is virtually exclusively focus on the DIY side of the business.
So today as that general manager puts together their schedule what they have is more intense focus on making sure we have the delivery drivers in place engaging with that CPP in a different way.
And you can see it as we've talked before that you got to earn your way up in relationships.
So when you're asking the general manager to go do visits to commercial customers 5 years ago 6 years ago we wouldn't have had that level of intensity and I tend to think about -- and part of the reason the changes that we've made as you listen to George is that how do we now bring that consistency across all the stores and continue that cultural journey and so the Commercial business unlike the Retail business doesn't turn on and off based just on marketing and based on just seasons.
It works based on relationships and we're asking that general manager and the sales teams to work together in a different way to continue to build the relationships with those key customers over time.
And whenever you ask somebody to do something and to actually focus on something a little different than it was before you do pay a little bit of a price in other parts of the business.
But given the size of the commercial market and its growth profile I'll go back to what we said our original mission is to see this business to reflect the overall market as well.
Our final question today is from David Gober with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus a little bit on the productivity gains that you saw in the stores.
Could you give us a little bit more color on what really led to that? Was it just the changing in labor hours in the store or anything more specific that you can give in terms of color there? Maybe I'll start and then George can talk about specific measures.
Over the last and I think I mentioned it earlier over the last couple of years we've put some tools in that now allow us to measure individual productivity and then performance managed.
So it allows us to -- and the whole idea of this is improving sales.
So it allows us to set goals by individual team member and it allows us to measure productivity.
And that's been one of the opportunities in our company and it's been a key focus for us.
So what we saw during the quarter is record labor productivity as measured by our sales per labor hour so that's how we measure productivity in terms of sales per labor hour.
So I think we said in our remarks that we saw record labor productivity which we're pleased at.
And one of the things that we've spoken about and our pathway to 12% in our costs one of the big areas that we've said there that has to improve is our labor productivity.
So we're actually pleased with the actual measurement and the performance of our field teams and maybe George you can talk about some of the things we're doing to improve that.
Yes Mike.
I mean I think we look at labor productivity that we experienced during the quarter and in general terms we're happy with that.
On balance we feel that we're taking expense out of the right places.
With that said anytime you try to trim out some expense you always run the possibility of hitting some muscle and we're clearly open-minded that may have done that in some cases.
So that's going to be something that we look at but to Mike's point we've seen increased productivity.
That is a key metric for us.
That is something that we have to do is to get better sales productivity in our stores and we're seeing that.
Yes.
And David you would expect us to also balance that in terms of what the customers satisfaction levels are.
We get those by store -- IMR does research on the commercial side.
In the second quarter we saw those metrics improve.
And so there's a delicate balance between cost and service levels.
And it really goes back to the team because they have to balance those so in the quarter we are very pleased with our IMR scores we were pleased with our NPD stores and our internal scores in the quarter.
I will now just turn the call back over to Kevin Quinn for any final comments.
Thank you operator and thanks to our audience for participating in our second quarter earnings conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me at (540) 561-6454.
Reporters please call Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Director of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures are described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our fourth quarter 2013 earnings release is scheduled for Thursday February 6 2014 before the market opens.
And our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday February 6 2014.
To be notified of the dates of the future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by thanking our 54 000 team members for their hard work and commitment to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who'll provide you with an update on our 2013 priorities; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financials.
As you're aware 2 weeks ago we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire General Parts.
We are excited about this transaction and the opportunity it presents for both organizations' shareholders and over 70 000 team members.
As we said this combination will position Advance as the largest automotive aftermarket provider of parts accessories batteries and maintenance items in North America.
Strategically it provides us with a compelling opportunity to expand our geographical presence channels of distribution and commercial capabilities to better serve customers and deliver value to shareholders.
We anticipate the closing of the transaction late this year or early in 2014.
Lastly and importantly due to the pending close of the transaction we will limit our comments relative to the General Parts acquisition to the information that we have already shared publicly.
Now let's review our third quarter results and the work our team has been doing and will continue to do as we move forward.
Our total sales increased 4.3% for the third quarter.
And earnings per share increased 17.4%.
While we are pleased with our earnings performance we are not satisfied with our 2% comparable store sales decline.
The decline was driven by our DIY business and partially offset by a modest increase in our commercial sales.
The sequential decline in our business from the second quarter results was however consistent with the slowdown in the overall market growth.
The overall market continues to face headwinds from a backdrop of limited consumer spending as the consumer appraisal of the economic conditions continues to affect consumer confidence.
Specifically the market softness we witnessed in July and early August continued through the third quarter.
We continue to deal with several unfavorable macro factors including a very apprehensive consumer that is navigating uncertainty with our government healthcare reform and a very uneven economic recovery.
The result is consumers are only performing repairs that are absolutely necessary to keep their vehicles on the road.
Consequently deferred maintenance remains at record levels.
The short-term volatility is evident as the overall aftermarket growth slowed in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.
Additionally looking within Advance's competitive set we continue to see our competitors intensifying their efforts to drive growth resulting in more new stores in our footprint.
This proliferation of stores and commercial programs in this slow growth period dilutes sales with over 80% of the new store growth from our competitors occurring in our footprint over the last 12 months.
Our comparable store sales shortfall was offset by improvements in our gross margin and disciplined expense control in the quarter as we proactively managed the business and made the necessary adjustments to conform to the market.
The team effectively managed our gross profit rate to 50.2% which was 42 basis points greater than Q3 last year despite continuing headwinds from the full operations of our new Remington distribution facility and the acquisition of BWP which has a higher mix of commercial sales.
Similarly our diligent expense management resulted in an SG&amp;A rate of 39% in the quarter.
The rate improved 49 basis points in the third quarter versus Q3 last year.
We saw improvements across numerous areas of the business.
Notably we saw lower administrative and support costs lower marketing expenses and improved labor productivity while absorbing higher incentive costs versus a year ago.
In addition to the consumer macro factors I discussed earlier we are witnessing structural change within the industry.
We continue to see divergence in the growth patterns between DIY and commercial markets.
Even looking at current market trends we see a variance differential.
Specifically the market deceleration from Q2 to Q3 this year was led by a 400 basis point decline in DIY versus a 200 basis point decline in commercial amid the continuing consumer concerns.
Looking ahead we believe the addressable commercial market is $40 billion which is nearly double the size of the addressable DIY market and growing at 2x the rate of DIY.
In response to these macro factors and structural market shifts we are managing our business forward accordingly.
First we are matching our expenses to the economic conditions within the industry.
More specifically we are managing our cost to the slower sales environment and making pragmatic trade-offs as we balance profitable management of our important DIY business while following the consumer and market trends by continuing to invest in commercial.
Second we continue to evolve our business to the market trends and make specific investments to capitalize on the fundamentals of our industry which remain positive.
I'll speak more about this in a moment.
Our strategy over the last 6 years has targeted growth of our commercial business through a series of deliberate stair steps.
Our strategic intent hasn't changed.
Today approximately 40% of our business is commercial.
We have reached this point today through organic growth as well as through regional acquisitions most notably with our AI acquisition and we are also seeing success early on with BWP.
Looking ahead the pending acquisition of General Parts is another strategic stair step for Advance as we accelerate our growth strategy.
Ultimately these underlying consumer shifts coupled with industry fundamentals are the core indicators that point to a stable environment for growth.
Specifically the average age of vehicles has a clip [ph] of 11 years with approximately 80% of the vehicles over 6 years old.
Deferred maintenance has reached record levels.
And the increasing complexity of vehicles and parts is prompting customers to entrust complex repairs with independent repair facilities.
These customer shifts and fundamentals position Advance to deliver incremental growth while increasing our overall share of the customer's purchases.
Despite the near-term sales slowdown we remain committed to growing our business and profitability through the consistent focus on service leadership and superior availability strategies.
We continue to stay the course on our company of one focusing on the fundamentals as our core objective that will guide us for the foreseeable future.
For the last number of years our team was clear that we needed to invest in what the customers wanted most.
As a result we have strong availability enhanced delivery capabilities more technology more talent and we're in the best position we've ever been in to serve customers.
Today our priorities will continue to include commercial growth parts availability and improving execution and productivity.
George will discuss the work going on in these priorities shortly.
Overall despite challenging sales I'm encouraged with the progress on the fundamentals and execution as an organization.
Great execution is a trademark for all organizations that sustain the balance of structural and motivational initiatives leading to profitable outcomes sales being just one part of that outcome.
Beyond sales a number of other elements must come together successfully to drive profitable outcomes.
And our team has again demonstrated evidence of strong execution through our gross profit rate improvements in addition to effectively managing costs which resulted in a 91 basis point improvement in our operating income this quarter.
As we head into the fourth quarter we remain cautious with our sales outlook based on the current market trends.
This view of our business for the remainder of the year is reflected in the outlook Mike will discuss a little later.
Internally we continue to remain focused on our strategies and are confident in our team's abilities as we work diligently to drive improved sales outcomes.
Looking ahead I'm excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for our team members our customers and our shareholders as I look forward to the combination with General Parts where our execution of the fundamentals that I spoke of earlier will be the cornerstone for success as we go forward.
In closing I'd like to share an example of how growth and focus on the fundamentals brings service as our best part to life.
Regional Vice President Rich Flaherty is a leader who has developed a store environment where all team members work together to serve our customers no matter what they need enables partnerships with our field operations and commercial teams that are solutions-oriented.
They truly focus on solving customer service issues to ensure we're always exceeding the customers expectations.
Rich and his team have worked tirelessly to build an internal bench of high-performance team members at all levels.
Rich communicates very effectively through market meetings with his GMs PPPs to ensure they're all well aware of the keys to driving the business and have in place ways to remove barriers from serving the customers.
Rich I commend you and your leadership and thank you for the great work your team is producing.
I will now turn the call over to George to update you on the work he is leading on our key priorities that support our 2013 objectives.
Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to thank our over 54 000 team members for their commitment to customer service while making progress on our 2013 priorities during the quarter.
Additionally I'd also like to express my excitement over our pending acquisition of General Parts and the tremendous opportunity that we have before us as a result of this transaction.
I'll now provide you with an update of the key priorities that support our 2013 objectives of growth and focus on the fundamentals.
First Commercial Business has been and will continue to be a key priority and the primary growth focus of the company.
We continue to intensify our focus on executing against the integrated model strategy comprised of DIY and Commercial.
Although the commercial market growth rate is outpacing the DIY market DIY remains an important part of our business our profitability and our go-forward strategy.
And despite the industry-wide slowdown in traffic through our focus and solid team effort we saw notable growth in the third quarter in our dollars per transaction.
In the quarter our Commercial Business continued to see improved levels of delivery speed and reliability and increased customer retention and share wallet with national and regional customers.
Our national and regional accounts growth approached double digits during the third quarter due to our strength and availability and delivery speed growth in commercial credit card penetration resulting from our in-source credit program and dedicated focus on strengthening relationships with commercial customers.
Overall we are pleased with our commercial program productivity generating $700 000 per program all-in between Advance BWP and Autopart International stores.
In addition we are pleased with the leading e-services offerings that we have for our commercial customers.
Our B2B e-commerce business grew roughly 50% in the quarter as we continued to advance our capabilities and improve the breadth of services we offer to our customers.
We have also rebranded our motor shop suite of services highlighting Advance's commitment to providing an innovative and holistic customer experience through continued investment and product development new technologies and customer service.
Second our work continues toward improvement of in-market availability.
A key component of this is our hub store strategy.
During the quarter we added 16 hub stores either through new store openings or the upgrade of existing stores strategically located to operate as hubs.
At the end of the quarter our hub store count was 370 an increase of 42 from the third quarter last year.
We also continue to work on our daily replenishment capabilities at our Remington DC.
As previously stated we anticipate 400 stores will be serviced by Remington with approximately 45% of those stores receiving daily replenishment by the end of fiscal 2013.
SKU assortments in stores receiving daily replenishment have increased over 1 600 SKUs from the same time period last year as daily replenishment allows us to carry a larger breadth of inventory.
Since we deployed our rapid replenishment capability performance of stores receiving daily delivery have outpaced our control stores within the region driven by parts categories.
We are still in relatively early stages and we'll continue to monitor results before we can draw any definitive conclusions.
And third we are working tirelessly on improving business performance through effective execution and enhanced productivity overlaid by an efficient operating model.
We're relentlessly committed to simplifying our operations by reducing tasks and improving process in our stores so our team members have more time to focus on engaging with the customer.
This focus has started to yield outcomes as we significantly improved our sales per hour performance during the quarter.
Broadly speaking we continue to simplify our field priorities while strengthening our operational DNA [ph] and reorienting our field teams toward profitable sales outcomes versus being a task-based team.
When I refer to outcomes I'm referring holistically to intensifying our customer experience our customer satisfaction levels and our sales and operating income performance.
We are already starting to see positive steps taken in this direction with our expense control and gross margin improvement contributions over the past several quarters.
We're also investing in our team members.
We remain on course with DIY and continue moving closer and closer toward a more balanced model between DIY and Commercial.
This type of evolution requires both an operational and a cultural shift in order to be successful.
We are investing in our field leaders and supporting their individual journey within our dual model environment.
We are providing our team members with the training and tools to equip them to deliver on those outcomes I referred to earlier.
Notably this year we've implemented new general manager onboarding and district leader training programs.
These programs are geared toward developing our leaders consistently on the fundamental principles of effectively coaching and leading our team members providing the best experience for our customers and effective management of their stores and districts.
Turning to new stores.
During the quarter we added 35 new Advance Auto Parts stores keeping us on track for our new store opening plan this year.
The performance of our 2012 and 2013 classes of stores continue to perform at or above our expectations primarily driven by a faster ramp-up of Commercial Business than previous classes of stores.
We are pleased with the performance of our Autopart International business.
The solid third quarter performance was led by strong execution driving double-digit top line sales growth and diligent expense management resulting in strong bottom line performance.
We are well into the formal process of integrating our BWP stores and remain on plan to complete the integration of 124 BWP stores into Advance Auto Parts stores by mid-2014 consistent with the time frame previously communicated at the beginning of the fiscal year.
The sales and profitability of the BWP stores are currently exceeding our expectations.
Most importantly during the transition we are remaining focused on employee retention and customer service.
As of the third quarter we successfully converted or consolidated the first 9 stores.
And I've learned a lot from the integration process and now expect to complete approximately 30% of the stores by year-end.
Despite fewer conversions and consolidations than originally anticipated this year we remain on track to complete the process on time.
Collectively our company priorities remain consistently focused on operations that drive results led by a focus on delivering on our customer promise and enabled through outstanding and consistent execution.
Additionally looking ahead we could not be more excited about the future growth opportunities for the great work that our teams are already driving forward and with the pending acquisition of General Parts.
To be clear as we prepare to undertake the integration of General Parts post-close we will be focused to ensure our integration efforts are closely aligned with our operations while continuing to flawlessly execute and deliver the best customer service throughout the process.
I've thoroughly enjoyed my first 6 months with Advance.
I look forward to continuing to update you on these important priorities in the future as we continue our focus on commercial to build deeper relationships with our core customers and work diligently to drive and improve sales outcome.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented team members for their continued efforts to improve our business and serve our customers as we navigated through our third quarter.
I would also like to say how excited we are about our future partnership with the General Parts team and the transformational opportunities it presents for value creation.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights for our third quarter of 2013; two put our third quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial dimensions we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2013 and how we're thinking about 2014.
As we shared on our second quarter earnings call sales began to soften during the last 6 weeks of the quarter.
And that softness continued through the third quarter.
We believe this continued softness was primarily as a result of the ongoing challenging macroeconomic environment.
While we are disappointed with the negative comp store sales we are pleased with our operating profit performance.
Operating profits grew 13.5% versus third quarter last year and were in line with our expectations driven by both an increase in the gross profit rate and disciplined expense management resulting in a 91 basis point increase in our operating income rate to 11.2% for the quarter.
We remain focused on influencing the things that are in our direct control and positioning our company for longer-term growth and profitability.
While we are pleased with our bottom line results during the quarter we realize in order to continue our profit expansion we must improve our sales performance while continuing the disciplined spending we've exhibited over the last 3 quarters.
As a result of the weaker consumer demand our comp store sales decreased 2% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our total sales however increased 4.3% to $1.5 billion driven by the impact of the acquisition of BWP and the net addition of 170 new stores over the past 12 months.
Our comp store sales decrease was driven by a decline in the number of transactions partially offset by an increase in the dollars per transaction.
The decline in transactions was primarily in DIY while the dollars per transaction increased in both DIY and Commercial with a larger increase in Commercial.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 4.3% to $5.1 billion.
And our comp store sales declined 2%.
Our gross profit rate in the third quarter was 50.2% versus 49.8% in the third quarter of 2012 or an increase of 42 basis points.
The increase was primarily due to higher merchandise margins driven by a lower product acquisition cost partially offset by planned increases in supply chain costs associated with the operation of our Remington DC and the impact of BWP sales which have a lower gross margin rate due to the higher mix of commercial sales.
Through the third quarter our gross profit rate increased 22 basis points to 50.2% from 49.9% over the same period last year.
Our SG&amp;A rate of 39% decreased 49 basis points versus third quarter of 2012 primarily driven by lower marketing expense improved labor productivity and lower administrative and support costs.
These were partially offset by onetime costs related to the pending acquisition of General Parts higher incentive compensation and the impact of increased new store openings.
Through the third quarter our SG&amp;A rate increased 18 basis points to 39% versus 38.8% over the same period last year.
All in our operating income for the third quarter was $170.7 million which was an increase of 13.5% versus the third quarter of 2012.
This result was in line with our expectations and is a testament to our ability to drive gross profit expansion and the team's disciplined focus on expense management despite softer comp store sales performance.
Our operating income rate increased 91 basis points to 11.2% in the third quarter.
The increased operating income rate came both from Advance stores as well as our Autopart International business.
Our EPS increased 17.4% versus Q3 last year to $1.42 per share and includes $0.02 of transition costs associated with the integration of BWP and $0.04 related to the pending acquisition of General Parts.
We still anticipate the transition of BWP will occur over an 18-month period from acquisition and the associated costs with 2013 to now be in the range of $0.08 to $0.11.
Through the third quarter 2013 our operating income dollars increased 4.7% to $569.5 million.
And our diluted EPS increased 7.1% to $4.65 including $0.05 of BWP integration costs and $0.04 of costs related to the pending acquisition of General Parts.
Free cash flow through the third quarter was $81.1 million which is down 72.8% over the same period last year primarily as a result of the acquisition of BWP.
Excluding the net impact of BWP acquisition our free cash flow would have been $251.5 million compared to $298.6 million over the same time period last year primarily due to higher owned inventory versus last year offset by lower capital expenditures.
Our owned inventory increased 10.4% from Q3 2012.
And our accounts payable to inventory ratio is 83.5% versus 83.2% in third quarter of 2012.
Our total inventory increased 12.3% driven by the acquisition of BWP more new stores and investments in availability.
This increase was higher than our expectations due to our lower-than-anticipated sales performance.
We expect our inventory growth will be lower by the end of our fourth quarter and continue to be focused on improving our accounts payable to inventory ratio with a continued goal of getting to 100%.
At the end of the third quarter we had roughly $605 million of debt on our balance sheet.
And our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.2x which is below our previously stated ceiling of 2.5x.
We continue to measure the performance of our business through the financial dimensions of growth profit and value creation.
During the quarter we continued to accelerate the pace of new store openings including the net addition of 28 stores.
This includes the opening of 35 new Advance stores offset by the closing of 7 stores including 5 Autopart International stores and the consolidation of 2 BWP stores into existing Advance stores.
At the end of Q3 our total store count was 4 018.
Including the acquisition of BWP in Q1 we've increased our net store count by 291 over the last 12 months.
We remain on pace to open a total of 170 to 190 new Advance Auto Parts and Autopart International stores this year.
In addition to our core store growth we believe our acquisition of General Parts which we anticipate closing in late 2013 or early 2014 will accelerate our commercial strategy and position us as a leader in the market creating a pathway for further growth by opening up new attractive channel opportunities diversifying and expanding our customer base and enhancing our geographic presence.
We expect the acquisition of General Parts to be a significant step to accelerate our commercial growth which is and will continue to be the growth strategy for our company.
It will also give us an expanded footprint to expand our DIY business.
Turning to profit.
Advance has been on a mission to improve our profitability through sales growth gross profit margin expansion and improving our cost structure.
Despite softer sales during the quarter our operating margins increased 91 basis points driven by gross profit margin improvements primarily driven by our merchandising teams resulting in lower acquisition costs and field execution.
We also made progress in our expense management where our field teams improved our labor productivity as measured by our sales per labor hour compared to the third quarter last year.
And we continue to lower our administrative and support costs in areas such as professional fees.
As a result of a more disciplined approach to expense management our total SG&amp;A dollars per store decreased to $654 000 per store during the third quarter on a last 12-month basis versus $659 000 during the third quarter of 2012.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of General Parts provides a compelling opportunity to derive shareholder returns through the growth in our business that will drive incremental operating profit earnings and strong cash flows.
Year-to-date through the third quarter we have deployed over $317 million of capital including investing approximately $180 million in our acquisition of BWP and returning approximately $79 million to shareholders via share repurchases.
At the end of the quarter our average diluted share count was 73.1 million shares.
Our disciplined approach to capital is reflected in our return on invested capital of 18.6%.
For the quarter our ROIC decreased 38 basis points versus third quarter last year as a result of our increased invested capital due to the acquisition of BWP the in-sourcing of our commercial credit program and the accelerated pace of our new store openings.
Turning to the balance of the year.
Given current market conditions we expect the softness in the sales environment to continue in Q4.
As a reminder Q4 is our lowest volume and most volatile quarter as we compete with holiday shopping season and seasonally lower demand for parts.
As a result we are maintaining a cautious outlook for Q4 sales and now anticipate our annual comparable store sales will be in the low negative single-digits for 2013.
We continue to expect that our gross profit rate will increase modestly for the full year.
And we will continue to adjust our costs appropriately given our sales trends to deliver on our profit expectations.
We also expect to have headwinds in Q4 with incentive compensation given our profit growth this year as we anniversary lower incentive compensation in Q4 last year.
We expect our SG&amp;A per store to be approximately flat inclusive of BWP integration costs and all General Parts onetime costs incurred through the third quarter.
Given what we see for the fourth quarter we are maintaining our annual 2013 EPS outlook to be in the range of $5.30 to $5.45 inclusive of BWP integration costs but excluding all onetime costs incurred in the fourth quarter related to the General Parts acquisition.
As we look to 2014 driving top line growth and bottom line profit will continue to be the focus as we begin integrating General Parts.
We remain cautious in the short term as our customers continue to adjust to a difficult macroeconomic environment.
We expect that longer-term industry dynamics to remain favorable as a result of the continued increase in the average age of vehicles and the deferred maintenance remains at record levels.
We expect our top line growth to be driven by stronger commercial comps improved execution new stores and continued improvements in our availability.
We also expect growth from the additional scale new channels and capabilities from our pending acquisition of General Parts.
We expect to continue to improve our profitability through our existing work to improve our gross profit rate and cost structure and through the realization of the synergies from the pending General Parts acquisition.
A key success factor will be to ensure we remain focused on our current day-to-day business operations delivering on our company objectives and executing against our customer promise which we are confident we will do.
We will provide a more detailed 2014 annual outlook on our fourth quarter earnings call.
As a reminder in anticipation of the pending closure of the General Parts transaction our prepared remarks and any subsequent commentary related to the acquisition will be strictly limited to the transaction materials Advance has already shared.
In closing we are committed to our strategies in Commercial and availability and are focused on improving our sales performance while continuing to improve our profitability and strengthening our returns to continue to drive shareholder value.
We also want to thank our 54 000 team members who lead us every day with their relentless focus on service and commitment to operational excellence and execution which are key ingredients to delivering on our goals.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Simeon Gutman with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So Mike you maybe touched on a couple of areas of SG&amp;A where you're finding some savings.
From a high level can you talk about the balance between corporate and the stores? And do you think any of the comp decel is attributable to lower spending? Or as Darren mentioned this quarter was more just a function of the environment? Yes.
So maybe I'll start and I'm going to pass you over to George.
So if you remember in the beginning one of the things that we've been talking about and we're pleased with is we needed -- about [ph] the profitability of our model.
And at the beginning of this year we said that that would come from 3 main areas: improved marketing effectiveness labor productivity and then our store and administrative costs.
And we're pleased with the progress we've made in all those categories.
I'm not going to break it out in terms of the pieces just because we don't typically give that kind of information.
But we're pleased with the labor productivity.
We've had record productivity the last 2 quarters from our field.
And that's a credit to our team members that are serving our customers and are doing it in a more effective and efficient way.
The SG&amp;A that we're taking out of -- one of the things that we're on a mission on is taking costs out that aren't giving us a good return.
And when you take out things like professional services and other costs -- another big driver of our costs and I think we mentioned it in the release is last year we in-sourced our credit program.
We're seeing the benefits coming through our credit card fees lower credit card fees.
We're doing that.
So the whole idea is to take costs out furthest away from the customer or improved productivity and not to impact sales.
But I'll pass it over to George as to the impacts to sales.
All right.
I think it's very much what Mike said.
We try wherever possible to go after noncustomer-facing activities to make expense adjustments.
We're always aware and keen to the possibilities that we may do something that could affect sales.
We wish that it was more surgical in taking costs out of the operation.
Sometimes it does.
And we're quick to correct those.
I think we're also quick to recognize shifts in our business.
So if you look at where we're seeing progress on the sales -- where we're seeing progress in the market we are committed to a consistent and high level of service to our Commercial customers.
And sometimes that takes the form of drivers in a store but we look at it.
We look at the results.
We are always open to the possibility that we could do something that affects our sales.
And we react quickly.
But our bias is to go toward noncustomer-facing activities keep it as far away from the customer service model as possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up regarding the spending backdrop.
We get some of the issues that are happening I guess in DIY and some of the fleet things that are happening in DIFM.
But there is a good amount of deferred maintenance as Darren mentioned.
Gas prices have come in recently.
As we turn the year we'll start to cycle some payroll tax cuts.
So is there any reason to be a little more upbeat after you get through this whatever government adjustment process any reason to be more upbeat as we get into early part of next year? Yes.
Simeon this is Darren.
You hit on a couple.
I think the anniversarying of the payroll tax holiday the cost of it the absence of it is certainly one.
And you know what gas prices moving towards $3.25 a gallon nationally is obviously another one that should be a tailwind versus a headwind.
I think the government whether it's healthcare or the shutdown I think what's happening and we can see it in the mix of our business is that consumers are clearly squeezing those dollars a little harder.
And they're just making choices around what must get done versus what's nice to get done.
And so that being said when they have a few more dollars in their pocket and those 2 events will help them for sure that is a reason to be a little more upbeat.
I think the other reason is if you're stretching it out I think the number jumped nearly $6 billion this year in deferred maintenance.
I suspect when the number comes out again in another 4 months we'll find that -- I don't know that it's jumped another $6 billion but I bet it's jumped another few billion dollars in terms of what's out there.
And that will put them into a mode if it's anything like we saw in '09 that's when we saw a big relief of that deferred maintenance number.
So I don't think it's a question of if.
I do believe it's a question of when.
And that's really going to come down when the consumers prioritize more of the spending and some of the preventative maintenance spending that really helped fuel those years of higher growth.
The next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My primary question relates to expenses.
I just wanted to take a step back and get a sense of how you think about this philosophically as you plan your SG&amp;A.
Are the cost cuts that you're implementing a function of really response to the competitive backdrop -- not competitive backdrop I'm sorry the macro backdrop or it is more a function of a benchmarking exercise where you get a sense of where you stand versus your competitors? I asked the question because you index [ph] quite well from a sales productivity perspective less so from an operating margin perspective.
So is this an attempt in a sense to rebalance those metrics to get to a higher level of profit dollars with a lower cost structure and a willingness to absorb a sales hit? Or am I reading too much into that? Matt it's both.
So certainly at the front end of the year probably about the first quarter we were not as bullish on the overall year in terms of sales trends.
And early on we told -- I think we told the greater world that we just -- we're going to be more conservative on the sales trends.
And we're going to match our expenses to those sales trends.
And for a number of years we've said look we know our SG&amp;A per store is high.
And we have taken steps net SG&amp;A per store not to artificially hit an artificial target.
But what I would say is step through where we see productivity opportunities.
And those productivity opportunities aren't in every store.
There are many stores that the productivity we're not only happy with we're thrilled with.
There are other places in every business through outlier management where you go in and you're just looking at store standards and productivity and targeting the efforts there.
And it's not just about a store because I think Mike talked about in marketing too you target return on advertising.
It's not just there.
You look at IT.
You look at different places whether it's a percent of sales or other measure.
And it doesn't happen overnight.
It really is somewhat of a building towards the cultural piece of that but really executing against some very specific I would say more fact-based productivity measures that you're looking for.
And it's a balance.
And certainly we have edited some sales as a result of that.
A simple way to think about it is that I couldn't be more thrilled this year that we're growing our large bay and our national accounts.
And I'm certain that we are giving up some sales in our non-focused customers that are 10 miles away from a store.
That expense trade-off is actually good for 3 reasons: one our service levels just got better for our larger and more important accounts; two we weren't servicing those accounts 10 miles from the store in a consistent way that was going to build our brand; and three what it allows us to do at a store level is effectively plan as well as the sales team plan and focus as to where we're spending our time.
And Matt I do want to mention one other thing.
You're also looking at net SG&amp;A figures.
Included in those SG&amp;A figures Darren's exactly right.
For many years we were criticized with our high cost structure.
And it was very planful.
We did -- I think we did the work first before we started pulling the costs out.
And as Darren said we've adjusted the variable to the trends in the business.
And we've actually strategically made moves.
But included in that SG&amp;A we're also investing in new stores.
We're also investing in availability.
So these are net numbers that you're looking at as well.
So the offset to some of that SG&amp;A -- because people talk about the SG&amp;A cuts that we're making.
And our SG&amp;A per store is coming down.
But we're also netting in those numbers is we're opening more stores this year than we did last year.
And we're improving our availability too.
Research Division</strong> So understanding that there is a game plan behind this P&amp;L geography as we think about the next couple of years and let's forget about the existence of the deal how far along are you in this process of cost cuts with some potential sales hit [ph] associated with it? Are we halfway there if you think time-wise or level-wise? Well it's too early Matt to talk about what will happen with respect to the acquisition.
It's just too early.
We haven't done that work yet.
I can tell you the things that we'll continue to talk about as a company even when we put these 2 organizations together is we're always going to want to take costs out furthest away from the customer that aren't giving us good return.
So that will always be a plan of ours.
We'll also always want to improve our productivity.
So those 2 things.
And George I don't know if...
Yes I would add to that.
I think while we continue to look for opportunities to sharpen our cost base there is no question that we're not going to put a cap on productivity.
We think that building a productivity culture and a sales culture within our organization is very important.
We've spent a lot of time and put a lot of focus on that this year to really get our teams focused on driving sales per hour and becoming more and more productive at every level.
Research Division</strong> And finally Mike you have from time to time given us a target for growth in SG&amp;A per store as part of the guidance thought process on the calls.
Do you care to do that today for the fiscal year? No we won't.
I'll give you more details when we do our Q4 call for next year.
We do that.
We don't look out further than that.
So we'll give you that.
I will say -- we said it on the call that we're expecting our SG&amp;A per store to be roughly flattish this year.
And part of that we built in and we said it in our remarks.
We're going to continue our progress on our cost work.
But when we hit Q4 we do have some headwinds this year that we didn't have.
So we're going to be anniversarying a lower incentive comp last year.
And as you remember a lot of people in the company didn't get bonuses last year.
With the profit improvements we've made this year there's going to be more incentive.
So that's probably the biggest impact that we'll see in Q4.
But we're expecting it for the year to be roughly flattish.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike I guess just continuing on this theme.
In the quarter operating margins were up 90 basis points.
But if you were to add back in the deal expenses with GPI I guess you're up 120 bps.
Thinking back to the Investor Day last spring and your goal of 200 basis points of improvement over a 3-year period how much further ahead are you of that goal at this point than what you were talking about last March and April? And are you now thinking maybe that 200 basis points upside could be conservative? Again that's excluding the transaction.
No.
Dan I don't know if we're ahead.
I think we're pleased.
So I think that the numbers you're talking about is -- so we leveraged SG&amp;A 49 basis points.
Well that includes the deal costs.
So when you take those deal costs into account I think that if you just do the math I think that's 84 basis point of leverage we would have in SG&amp;A.
And then that includes BWP costs.
So I think that's how you're getting through the numbers.
I think in a bigger frame I think we're pleased with the margin improvements we've made.
We're expecting modest this year.
We're pleased with the SG&amp;A improvements.
When we set the 12% goal quite frankly too we also planned that the comp would be better.
So I think for us where we're focused on is while managing our costs is the right thing we've always said that in order to get to 12% it was 3 pieces: it was growth and it was profit through SG&amp;A and margin.
And I think we're pleased with the SG&amp;A.
I think we're pleased with the margin.
And I think as George and Darren said we've got some work to do on the sales.
And there's parts of our business -- Darren gave a great story that's happening in Boston.
We've got pockets of the business that are doing well.
And I think where we're focused is getting that top line going.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is a follow-up.
Darren you had noted that 80% of the stores opened from your competitors are going into your territory.
Unfortunately that's not going to change based on where O'Reilly is indicating.
They're going to open all these stores in Florida and up in the northeast.
What kind of competitive response can Advance make? I know you're not going to compete on price.
But what kind of competitive response can you make to help protect your market share in those regions? Well the most important thing you can do in those regions Dan is take care of your customers and take care of your team.
And so in certain of those markets there's tactical things that we'll do to protect our customers and tactical things that we'll do in terms of growing our business.
I think in the DIY business we've seen this in other industries when 83% of the customers make their choice around DIY based on who's closest to their home you're balancing the impact of what I'll say is just core human behavior.
And you're trying to offset that with your team and how you're treating your customers.
I mean as we look out and without getting into things we can't talk about in terms of General Parts we see enormous opportunity rolling Advance beyond our traditional footprint.
And we talked about this a lot in terms of 88% of those stores are east of the Mississippi.
We certainly see General Parts giving us a multipronged approach to growing our business through WORLDPAC which we think is just an extraordinarily special model and led by a great team.
And we see the opportunity with the Advance brand.
And more recently as we've spent some time with the independents meeting and greeting them we see that as an opportunity for growth too.
And there's a lot of growth outside of our footprint that is now -- that will be available to us once we complete the process.
The next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the productivity and sales culture that George mentioned trying to drive in the organization.
As you think about getting that balance right would you consider on the DIY side doing things like loyalty programs like O'Reilly's doing to maybe reinvest some of that margin or productivity gains into the selling side of that equation? Then I had a follow-up.
Yes.
I don't think we discount any possibilities as to how we would serve our DIY customer.
I think when you talk about the sales and productivity culture as it applies to DIY we've been very focused on training our teams getting more automotive systems training in place getting more training and reporting around how the entire project our job is sold into the store and become very focused on when our traffic patterns are at their highest and putting task management in place and move it away from those peak periods of the day.
So we won't put any limits on what we would do in terms of serving that customer.
But we're certainly not in any way shape or manner walking away from DIY.
It's a huge part of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I just wanted to follow up.
In the prepared comments I think Darren you mentioned that sequentially DIY you think was 400 bps weaker and do-it-for-me 200.
Was that for you guys or the industry? That was the industry Greg.
So all we're doing -- we don't get granular industry data anymore.
But we do get it at a pretty high level from NPD just quarter-to-quarter.
And you could just see a slowdown Q2 to Q3.
And you shouldn't read into it it went negative but it was pretty pronounced in DIY.
And I think as our competitors have talked about earlier in the quarter I think we just saw part of that malaise come through part of it governmental and part of it for different reasons from the consumer.
Research Division</strong> And with merchandising margin being driven with the reduced sourcing costs imagine there's some deflation there.
Was there any LIFO? Or are we seeing that also show up on the top line where there's actually deflation now on the top line? Yes.
So I'll talk about LIFO and then Charles can talk about it then.
So LIFO if you look at just the LIFO line we had a little bit of income this year anniversarying against more income last year.
So LIFO was actually a headwind for us in the quarter.
But just looking at the LIFO line is the wrong way to look at it.
You've got to look at did we change mix did we adjust prices? And when you put that all together the inflation deflation had minimal impact in the quarter.
Charles? Yes.
And I think the other thing is a sourcing.
We work across our whole vendor structure to continue to work on improving acquisition costs and improve our overall gross margin.
So it doesn't mean that we necessarily would deflate at top line through price positioning.
And it's very rational pricing in the marketplace.
So you're seeing that benefit across a wide array of our vendor structure in terms of how we're driving the margin equation.
Our final question today is from Bret Jordan with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A little follow-up on George's comment there on sourcing and I guess lower product acquisition costs came up.
Is it same product at a lower price or are you shifting the product mix? Is there more private label products coming into this -- into the category that's driving the gross margin up? And I guess to some extent is the higher owned inventory also having an impact? Are you getting better pricing in exchange for less aggressive payable terms? So I'll answer the first question first.
We've said consistently in the last 3 years that our investment in our global-sourcing capabilities has continued to drive benefit.
And that's driving through a higher percent of private label penetration.
So the answer to your question is yes.
In terms of the inventory builds we're making those strategic investments in our markets.
If you look at our Remington DC and you look at our 6x [ph] delivery we're putting more product closer to the customer to make sure that we drive a better availability.
We're not trading off terms for price.
And we continue to maintain that discipline as you see in our AP [ph] ratio continuing to improve over the last 3 years.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess one other question on the margin.
The SG&amp;A benefit from some of the lower marketing expenses was there inefficient marketing spend? I guess as you talk about new competitors coming into your footprint or increasing competition in your footprint does marketing need to come back up to some extent? Or was it just inefficiency you were able to take out and you can continue to run marketing at these levels despite increasing competition? Yes.
I think Bret there's a couple pieces.
Charles do you want to provide color? I think when we stood back and looked at our marketing we had a broad range of vehicles last year.
I think what we did is we stood back and looked at those multiple vehicles whether it was direct marketing through the mail.
Certainly we're all spending a lot more online than we have in years past.
And in radio and many of those have different timelines in terms of the returns.
What we could see is that ability to consolidate under fewer vehicles this year.
And when we made that consolidation we really made it against a view of which one of them are future facing call it the Internet.
Which one of them quite frankly are we renting the business for short periods of time and which ones of those do we have to be more consistent over time.
And we added it against that lens and really are staying the course in that approach to the business.
And I'd say years before that you're just -- you're probing the wall a little bit in terms of how the consumer is reacting.
And as you better understand what they're reacting to in how things are changing you're narrowing the mix based against an effectiveness measure not just against a total dollars spent.
Would you add anything Charles? George? No.
I think you said it perfectly.
That concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Zaheed Mawani for closing comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5097.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Director of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Certain financial measures have been reported on a comparable basis to exclude the impact of costs that were incurred in fiscal 2013 in connection with the integration of B.W.P.
Distributors and the General Parts International acquisition.
A reconciliation of any non-GAAP financial measures mentioned on the call with the corresponding GAAP measures is described in our earnings release and our SEC filings which can be found on our website at advanceautoparts.com.
For planning purposes our first quarter 2014 earnings release is scheduled for May 15 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday May 15 2014.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by thanking all of our team members for their hard work and commitment to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you on our business operations; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financials.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to convey a warm welcome to the new team members from General Parts that have now joined our Advance team bringing our total team strength to approximately 71 000.
The foundation of any business is its people and I'm proud to be surrounded by an exceptionally talented team as we head into a special and transformative year for our company in 2014.
Since our last conference call at the end of the third quarter we are very excited to have closed the General Parts acquisition on January 2 2014.
The closing of this transaction was a historic day for our company.
This investment positions Advance for leadership in the industry while broadening and accelerating our growth strategy.
Advance's 80-year history has been a story of growth and adapting to the changing industry and customer needs.
This combination is another strategic step forward for our great company and I couldn't be more pleased and privileged to be part of this next chapter in our journey.
I will begin my prepared remarks today updating you on our fourth quarter performance followed by my thoughts on our 2013 outcomes as well as our priorities for 2014.
I am pleased to report that our results in the fourth quarter were better than expected with total sales increasing 6% for the quarter.
Our comparable earnings per share increased 6.8% versus the fourth quarter in 2012.
Now I'm also very happy to report a positive comp sales albeit slight of 0.1% increase in the quarter.
This increase was a 210 basis-point acceleration from our third quarter.
Notably both our DIY and Commercial same-store sales accelerated from the third quarter with Commercial outpacing DIY.
Entering the fourth quarter we anticipated continued sales softness and that our comparable store sales would decline by low single-digits.
However we saw increased levels of customer demand in the back half of the quarter due to favorable winter weather generating increased sales particularly in battery and the wiper categories.
Sales in all of our markets accelerated from the third quarter with our cold weather markets accelerating at a faster pace.
The sales performance was also a testament to our supply chain and retail operations team for having strong inventory in-stock positions and delivering exceptional service to our customers.
Clearly the extended deep-freeze in the Eastern U.S.
has and should benefit our business in 2014.
During the quarter our gross profit rate declined 8 basis points to 49.8% versus 49.9% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
That was expected.
Our SG&amp;A performance in the fourth quarter was in line with our expectations as comparable SG&amp;A increased to 41.7%.
Mike will discuss this in more detail shortly.
Looking back on 2013 we continued to see favorable industry fundamentals as we witnessed an increase in miles driven the average age of vehicles holding steady at over 11 years with approximately 80% of vehicles over 6 years old and deferred maintenance reaching record levels in 2013.
We are encouraged with the overall progress we made in the year despite navigating persistent headwinds from unfavorable macro factors including a very apprehensive consumer that was experiencing uncertainty with employment government health care reform and a very uneven economic recovery.
In addition we were faced with unseasonably warm winter temperatures during our first quarter followed by a late start to the spring selling season.
In light of all these challenges we remained focused on what was in our control and concentrated on our objectives of driving growth providing the best customer service and growing our profits.
The back half of the fourth quarter brought extraordinary cold winter weather which increased consumer demand and led to a strong finish to our fiscal year.
As I've said before weather balances out over the long term.
Strategically our greatest accomplishment was the acquisition of General Parts International which closed just after our 2013 fiscal year end.
The combined business will be more balanced with a growth platform for Commercial and DIY.
We will be able to strengthen our market position and increase service levels to a broader and deeper customer base in the industry.
The acquisition increases our reach with immediate coast-to-coast and North American market coverage.
It also expands our platform to include the important independent customer channel while building on our commitment to national accounts large bay garages heavy-duty fleet and government programs.
The addition of WORLDPAC combined with our existing Autopart International business solidifies our position as the market leader in import parts.
In addition it will create an unparalleled e-commerce engine through our combination with the market-leading WORLDPAC and CARQUEST B2B platforms.
Operationally our focus and related achievements were concentrated on strengthening and executing on the fundamentals aimed at driving sales growth customer service and profitability.
As we entered the year our strategy at the highest level was unchanged in terms of our focus on service leadership and superior availability.
Yet we narrowed our priorities to concentrate on growing our Commercial Business focusing on in-store execution and developing a more efficient operating model with both the DIY and Commercial businesses working together.
Overall we are encouraged by our strong fourth quarter finish in sales especially in the DIY business.
Our focus in 2013 was managing our cost to the slower sales environment and making the necessary trade-offs as we balanced our profit management of our important DIY business while continuing to invest in our customers in key areas of the business.
Specifically our Commercial Business saw positive sales gains resulting from national and regional account growth incremental growth in our e-commerce business and continued positive response to our leading e-services offers.
Delivery speed and reliability continue to improve across the board.
We continue driving improvements in our market availability and assortment through the support of 374 hub stores and the positive impact from our daily delivery capabilities from our Remington Distribution Center that met our expectations.
Collectively Advance and AI opened 172 new stores in 2013 a 35-store increase over 2012 openings.
The performance of our new stores positions us well as we enter 2014.
Concurrently the integration of 124 BWP stores continues to be on track for completion by mid-2014.
George Sherman joined our company as President in the first half of 2013 to lead the operations and day-to-day execution.
His impact has been reflected in our second half results.
We made significant strides with in-store execution improvements and took meaningful steps towards improved efficiency and effectiveness within our operating model.
George and the team have been simplifying how we run our stores driving productivity improvements and investing in our team members through comprehensive product and leadership training programs.
George will speak more about this shortly.
Overall from an operational perspective we are very proud of the progress we made as we remain focused on execution and the team worked with intensity to deliver our priorities being capped off by a better-than-expected fourth quarter performance.
Financially we are pleased with our progress towards increasing our profitability as operating income on a comparable basis grew 5.5% in 2013 despite the challenging sales environment.
Overall comp store sales did decline 1.5%.
However total sales grew 4.7% due to the acquisition of BWP and new stores.
Our teams worked diligently to drive year-over-year gross margin improvements of 15 basis points including the cost of the first full year of operation from our Remington DC that opened in the third quarter of 2012.
Collectively our teams managed expenses and made the necessary edits which helped drive our operating income results in line with our expectations for the full year.
Turning to 2014.
This is arguably the most exciting year in our 80-year history.
The past 6 years have targeted growth of our Commercial Business through a series of deliberate strategic and operational stair-steps.
The acquisition of General Parts is a logical next step for Advance as we accelerate our growth strategy and capitalize on the fundamentals and structural shifts in our industry towards Commercial.
Collectively the acquisition of General Parts positions Advance as the largest automotive parts provider in North America.
While being the largest is certainly an accomplishment in its own right our sights are now set on being the best in the industry.
Our primary focus areas in 2014 will be squarely set on successfully delivering on 2 overarching objectives: first be manically focused on delivering on the core business; and second the successful execution in 2014 of a multi-year General Parts integration plan.
In 2014 we begin the never-ending mission of being the best.
We will build on those successes that have gotten us to where we are today and continue to invest in those areas that will drive our sales growth customer service excellence and profit outcomes.
We are committed to improving our sales outcomes for both DIY and Commercial through continued focus on our fundamentals growing our store base expansion of national and regional accounts and investing in availability through the additional hubs and supply chain efficiencies.
Our focus on improving our business profitability will leverage on our success in 2013 as we maintain our positive momentum with in-store execution and disciplined expense management.
We expect to take meaningful steps in improving our overall customer service by putting our customers first and improving our ability to serve.
Supporting that initiative will be our commitment to continue heavily investing in our team members that serve our customers day-in and day-out through relevant and comprehensive training and development.
Notably our acquisition of General Parts has immediately improved the strength of our overall team.
The General Parts team members come with deep commercial industry and institutional experience and knowledge which will complement our overall talent as the teams begin sharing knowledge and experience.
We are very excited to work as a combined team one team in 2014.
An additional area of focus and investment for us in 2014 will be our import business.
Today WORLDPAC together with Autoparts International position us as the leader in the import market the fastest-growing automotive segment.
The addressable market for imports continues to grow at a faster rate than domestic vehicles based on vehicle registrations.
We will look to accelerate our leadership position in this important segment.
In summary I am upbeat and grounded in our view of 2014.
I remain confident about our industry fundamentals remaining positive and appreciate the return of normalized winter season leading to a strong fourth quarter finish giving us momentum as we enter 2014.
That being said the uneven economic recovery continues to affect the consumer although modest signs of improvement are expected in 2014 with the anniversary of increased payroll taxes and steady gas prices.
We remain balanced and we'll continue to manage our business accordingly as we monitor trends as they unfold throughout the year.
We will be clearly focused on delivering on our core business outcomes while successfully integrating the General Parts acquisition.
In simple terms we'll continually improve our operational execution while investing in our capabilities to serve our customers better than anyone else in 2014.
In closing I would like to recognize a few of the leaders who were instrumental in the General Parts acquisition process.
Transactions of this size and nature are complex and require cross-functional and organizational teamwork to successfully execute.
I could not be more proud of the team that led the acquisition which included more leaders than I could possibly name here.
Yet the leadership and tireless efforts from several leaders including Jim Wade Bill Carter Temple Sloan III and David McCartney were instrumental during the acquisition process.
Along with these leaders I'd like to recognize the human resource finance and legal teams of each organization for carrying added responsibilities keeping our focus each day and continuing to deliver great customer experience.
I will now turn the call over to George to update you on the work he is leading on our key priorities that support our 2013 success and outline some of the goals for 2014.
George? Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to thank our team members for their commitment to customer service while continuing to make progress on our 2013 priorities during the quarter.
I'd also like to extend a very warm welcome to the General Parts team members that have now joined the Advance team in 2014.
With our closing announcement of the General Parts acquisition we now have roughly 71 000 talented team members working together as we look forward to delivering on the tremendous opportunity this acquisition enables while providing the best customer service each day.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide a view on our fourth quarter sales performance followed by an update on the key priorities that we focused on within the quarter and the full year.
Finally I'll share my thoughts on the business as we enter 2014.
Looking at our sales we are very encouraged with our performance in the fourth quarter as the team delivered a positive comparable store sales outcome of 0.1% a sequential acceleration of at least 200 basis points from Q3 on a 1-year and 2-year basis.
Our positive sales performance was attributable to solid execution by our field teams and the continuous improvements we are making to our operational infrastructure which I'll talk more about in a moment.
In addition the winter weather trends during the second half of the quarter across our markets generated incremental customer demand in various product categories.
Our continued investments and availability and superb execution for our merchant and supply chain teams allow us to be well-positioned to respond to a lifting customer demand.
Our field team accelerated performance in both our DIY and Commercial businesses.
Our positive comp sales performance was driven by growth in seasonal categories driving improvements in both dollars per transaction and sales productivity with Commercial seeing transaction growth within the quarter.
All of our regions accelerated from the third quarter with notable acceleration being strongest in the Plains and Great Lakes regions 2 regions that were particularly challenged during the third quarter.
As I mentioned previously we've been on a mission to transform all operational D&amp;A to one that is focused on outcomes: sales great customer service and profitability.
These outcomes are underpinned by fundamental business priorities and structural changes we have been systematically making to our business in order to position Advance for long-term success.
We are continuing to see progress against those priorities and the changes we are making not only help us deliver the positive results in the fourth quarter but also establish all-important momentum heading into 2014.
I'd now like to update you on our progress against key priorities.
But first I'd like to highlight some areas where we're making positive structural changes.
First we've been hard at work simplifying and streamlining our operating structure and charting the course towards a field-centric operating model.
We've been working diligently to decentralize decision-making so that we empower our field team members and effectively push decision-making closer to the customer.
This will result in faster decisions that will improve our customer experience but also allow our field leaders to tailor those decisions and strategies for the individual markets and customer needs.
Second we continue to put focus each day on improving our in-store execution and building an efficient operating model.
As I previously mentioned we're all in when it comes to investing in our team members through training and development.
This is an investment in time and resources and we're clearly committed to providing our team members with the knowledge training and tools to equip them to deliver a fantastic customer experience while empowering them to deliver on our core business outcomes.
Those business outcomes are now clear and concise and are focused on the most important performance metrics.
We have been simplifying our business and removing non-valuated tasks removing unnecessary reporting redundant procedures and shifting our team members' time and focus towards being on the sales floor at the counter or on the phone engaging with our customers and looking after their needs.
Third we're developing a model of consistent disciplined execution and accountability.
We have held firm to a recipe for success and are now seeing improvement in our core operations that give us confidence going forward.
Our move to a positive comp in the fourth quarter was encouraging but to be clear we are working towards and aspire for a greater outcome.
Turning around sales execution is not an overnight process but rather a series of building blocks through a consistent execution day-in and day-out.
The execution of our field leadership teams and their willingness to accept accountability and affect movement to a field-centric organization has been another brick in the foundation that we continue to build as we head into 2014.
Turning your attention now to update you on other key priorities and business outcomes.
Our Commercial Business continued to gain momentum in the fourth quarter with positive comp sales and a Commercial sales mix of 40.4% versus 38.1% in the same quarter last year.
Our sales per Commercial program exceeded $700 000 per program.
Our supply chain and availability work continues and I'll take a moment to update you on: one our Remington Distribution Center; two our hub store initiatives; and three updates on our ongoing focus on inventory availability.
As we previously communicated our goal is to service 400 stores through our Remington distribution facility.
I'm happy to announce that we have not only met that objective but have modestly exceeded it.
Of those 400-plus stores being serviced we have 178 stores that are receiving daily replenishment at the end of the fourth quarter.
We had expanded the assortment of our daily delivery by adding additional categories and providing those service stores with the strongest in-stock positions and we are increasingly encouraged by the performance of those stores receiving daily delivery as they exceed expectations and continue to show a positive momentum and increased sales lift.
Daily replenishment continues to be a priority for us and aligns with our objective of driving availability and breadth of assortment.
Further expansion of the daily delivery program will be considered in conjunction with a more holistic distribution network assessment study we'll be conducting in light of our recent acquisition and the 38 new General Parts distribution centers we will now operate.
Second our work continues towards improvement of in-market availability.
A key component of this is our hub store strategy.
During the quarter we added 4 hub stores either through new stores or the upgrade of existing stores strategically located to operate these hubs.
And at the end of the quarter our store count was 374 an increase of 35 from the fourth quarter of last year.
Third as we look at inventory our inventory growth was up 10.7% year-over-year primarily due to the increase in new store openings our acquisition of BWP our increase in hub stores and the ramp-up of our Remington Distribution Center.
We also continue to drive improvements in our availability as we look to make strategic investments that get the parts closest to the customer.
Looking at our new store growth during the quarter we added 55 new Advance Auto Parts stores that bring our new store count over the past 12 months to 172.
The performance of our 2012 and 2013 class of stores continue to perform at or above our expectations primarily driven by a faster ramp-up of Commercial Business from previous classes of stores.
We are once again pleased with the performance of our Autopart International business.
The fourth quarter performance was once again led by strong execution driving strong top line sales growth and diligent expense management resulting in strong bottom line performance.
Heading into 2014 we're excited about the continued growth of our leadership position in imports.
Integration of the 124 BWP stores progressed largely as expected in the fourth quarter.
We remain on plan to complete integration by mid-2014 consistent with the timeframe previously communicated at the beginning of the fiscal year.
As of the fourth quarter we successfully converted or consolidated a total of 33 stores and continue to capture the integration learnings which will be leveraged as we enter into our large integration of General Parts beginning in 2014.
As we think about 2014 it's important to recognize where we have come from and where we are going.
Since we began Advance 80 years ago we've been on a continuous journey of growth and we couldn't be more proud of our accomplishments.
Fast-forward to today and we're now the biggest in the industry.
However as exciting as that is we aspire for more.
In 2014 we are focused on the journey towards being the best.
The 2 overarching priorities for us in 2014 will be: first to maintain an uncompromising focus on our core operations and delivering the best service to our customers; second to successfully integrate the General Parts acquisition and achieve the benefits we conveyed at the time we announced the acquisition.
We are clear on the absolute importance of successfully integrating the companies and minimizing the distraction factor to our core businesses.
Of paramount importance was to keep our integration team and processes distinctly separate from our core day-to-day run of the business team to mitigate such distraction risk.
Therefore we'll be assigning a team to deliver the integration led by Bill Carter Senior Vice President on our Advance leadership team.
Bill brings an immeasurable level of experience to the table.
From his combined experience both prior to Advance while at Bain Consulting where he led the Sterne Agee work in auto aftermarkets post-merger integration and program execution but also with Advance where he has been instrumental in our Commercial strategy and the integration of our acquisition of BWP stores.
This team will also include members from General Parts which will provide not only deep institutional knowledge but a forum for sharing the best practices within the group.
We are pleased with our performance in 2013 as we made significant strides in our execution framework and drove strong sales performance in our fourth quarter.
Our work on great execution will continue to build off our successes this past year and we will continue to invest in and focus on the fundamentals.
That begins first with our team.
It starts with continuing focus on strong hiring training and development performance management and building on our work of developing a field-centric culture; next concentrating on growth of our sales and service capabilities from national account growth expanding our e-services offering growing penetration of our Commercial credit program and our B2B platform; third continuing to work to support availability-driven growth through a continued expansion of our hub stores and the inventory optimization as we look to continue improvement of in-stocks and as I mentioned earlier getting inventory where it matters most closest to the customers.
A key fundamental and central to our overarching mission will be a continuing -- will be continuing to focus on our customers and invest in those areas that will improve our ability to serve each and every day.
In closing I'd like to take a moment to communicate how thrilled I am to welcome 2 exceptionally talented leaders to my team: David McCartney and Al Wheeler.
David McCartney will serve as President of our CARQUEST operations and has been associated with General Parts for 27 years leading almost every aspect of the organization over his career.
He has a passion for creating and enabling teams that focus on success for the organization as well as for our customers.
Al Wheeler will serve as our Senior Vice President of our combined Commercial Business.
Al has been with CARQUEST for over 30 years and brings a rich experience set that will undoubtedly position us to accelerate our combined Commercial Business.
Welcome to the team David and Al.
I'm excited about our synergy and the combined capabilities that we'll now bring to bear in the marketplace.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers in 2013 and the better-than-expected finish they led us to in our fourth quarter.
I would also like to sincerely welcome all the new team members from General Parts to the Advance team as we successfully closed the transaction on January 2 2014.
We entered 2014 with both momentum and excitement from this combination which will allow us to leverage our new size and scale combined capabilities and a team of roughly 71 000 talented team members to create value for our shareholders customers and team members in 2014.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights from our fourth quarter of 2013; two put our fourth quarter and full year results into context with our expectations and key financial priorities we use to measure our performance; and three share with you our financial outlook for 2014.
As a point of clarity my commentary this morning regarding the 2013 financial performance will be solely related to Advance Auto Parts.
The General Parts acquisition closed subsequent to our fiscal year end and we will begin consolidated reporting and commentary beginning with the first quarter of 2014.
In addition the 2013 results I will be speaking to unless otherwise specified will be on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of BWP integration expenses and excludes any one-time transaction costs associated with the acquisition of General Parts.
We began this year by communicating our 2013 EPS full year guidance of $5.45 to $5.60 excluding BWP integration costs and we are pleased to have exceeded those expectations with a comparable EPS of $5.67 an 8.6% increase from 2012.
This was driven by improvements in our operating profit performance as a result of both an increase in our gross profit rate and disciplined expense management.
We are encouraged by the improvements in our operational execution leading to a strong finish in the fourth quarter.
On a GAAP basis our 2013 EPS was $5.32 which included $0.07 of BWP integration costs for the year including $0.03 in Q4 and $0.28 of transaction expenses including $0.24 in Q4 associated with the acquisition of General Parts.
At the start of the year we estimated BWP integration costs would be $0.15 to $0.20.
However the actual integration costs of $0.07 came in under that estimate due to both the pacing of the integration and our actual expenses coming in lower than original estimates.
We remain on track to complete the integration by approximately the end of our second quarter.
Turning to sales.
Our fourth quarter sales increased 6% to $1.4 billion driven by the net addition of 151 new stores over the past 12 months the acquisition of BWP and a comparable same-store sales increase of 0.1%.
Our positive comp store sales are attributable to the extreme winter weather in the back half of the quarter combined with the strong execution from our retail and supply chain teams.
Our total sales for fiscal 2013 increased 4.7% to $6.5 billion and our full year comp store sales decreased 1.5%.
Our fourth quarter gross profit rate decreased 8 basis points to 49.8% versus 49.9% in Q4 of 2012.
The 8 basis-point decrease in gross profit rate was the result of a higher mix of Commercial which has a lower gross profit rate driven primarily by the acquisition of BWP partially offset by increased merchandising margins due to lower acquisition costs and improvements in supply chain efficiencies.
Our Commercial mix represented 40.6% of 2013 sales versus 38.1% last year.
For the year our gross profit rate increased 15 basis points to 50.1%.
Our fourth quarter comparable SG&amp;A rate of 41.7% increased 36 basis points versus fourth quarter of 2012 driven by higher incentive compensation and increased new store openings.
As shared on our third quarter earnings call the higher incentive comp was the result of better operating income performance this year versus last year as we anniversary lower incentive compensation in Q4 last year.
This was partially offset by lower administrative support costs specifically less professional fees and increased labor productivity.
For the year our comparable SG&amp;A rate increased 7 basis points to 39.4% versus 39.3% over the same period last year driven by higher incentive compensation fixed cost deleverage due to the same-store sales decline and the increase in new store openings.
All in on a comparable basis our fourth quarter operating income dollars increased 0.6% to $113.8 million and our operating income rate decreased 44 basis points over the same period last year to 8.1%.
Our diluted earnings per share on a comparable basis increased $0.06 to $0.94 during the quarter versus $0.88 in the fourth quarter last year.
For the year on a comparable basis our operating income dollars increased 5.5% to $693.3 million and our diluted EPS increased 8.6% to $5.67.
Our average diluted share count was 73.2 million shares for the quarter and 73.4 million shares for the full year.
For the year free cash flow was $183.1 million a decline of 55.6% versus $412.3 million over the same period last year.
Excluding the acquisition of BWP free cash flow was $350.2 million a $62.1 million decrease from 2012 driven by an increase in owned inventory partially offset by a lower increase in accounts receivable.
Our inventory increased 10.7% primarily driven by our increase in new stores our acquisition of BWP investments in hubs and our Remington DC.
Our accounts payable to inventory ratio now stands at 85.3% versus 87.9% in 2012 and we continue our focus on driving continued AP ratio improvement on our new post-acquisition consolidated base in 2014.
At the end of the fourth quarter we had $1.1 billion in cash and $1.1 billion of long-term debt on our balance sheet.
The increase in our fourth quarter cash position was largely driven by the proceeds of our $450 million bond issuance as part of our financing plan in preparation for the close of the acquisition of General Parts.
As we embark upon this next strategic growth step of our business our financial principles remain unchanged.
We will continue to measure our financial performance through the financial priorities of growth profitability and value creation.
Our approach and philosophy has always been to prioritize growth as our primary use of capital in order to increase returns and drive shareholder value.
The General Parts acquisition accelerates our Commercial growth which is and continues to be the growth engine of the company and positions us as the leader in the market creating a pathway for further growth by opening up attractive new channel opportunities diversifying and expanding our customer base and enhancing our geographic presence.
It will also give us an expanded footprint to expand our DIY business.
Turning to profit.
Advance has been on a mission to improve profitability and we are pleased with the progress made in 2013 with our 5.5% increase in operating profit dollars on a comparable basis driven by our gross profit improvements increased labor productivity and our disciplined expense management specifically in reductions we made in our administrative support costs.
Looking forward our mission to improve profitability will continue with the General Parts acquisition and delivering on the estimated $160 million of cost synergies primarily through the areas of procurement as well as corporate store and supply chain efficiencies.
With respect to value creation the General Parts transaction provides a compelling opportunity to drive shareholder returns through growth in our business that will drive incremental operating profit earnings and cash flows.
From a capital structure standpoint we are committed to paying down our debt to get back to a maximum ceiling leverage ratio of 2.5x and maintaining our investment-grade ratings.
Our investment-grade ratings will help us to make continued improvements in our combined AP ratio with GPI.
I'd like to now discuss our 2014 annual outlook.
To begin I'd like to share 4 guiding principles that underline the basis of our outlook.
One the 2014 annual outlook is being provided on a total consolidated basis combining Advance Auto Parts and General Parts results given we see our combination with GPI as an integrated expansion of our Commercial assets and capabilities to grow with our existing customers and attract new ones.
To assist you in understanding the outlook we are providing you with the following 2013 estimated comparable consolidated information including General Parts which was used to develop our 2014 annual outlook.
2013 full year sales is estimated between $9.4 billion and $9.5 billion.
2013 full year gross profit is estimated between 45.5% and 46% of sales.
And 2013 full year SG&amp;A is estimated between 36.5% and 37% of sales.
This 2013 comparable consolidated information has been provided solely for guidance purposes and represents Advance's current estimate and is subject to change pending the finalization of the close for GPI's 2013 year.
Two in 2014 Advance will also include results on a comparable cash EPS basis.
Subsequent to the acquisition of General Parts the company believes this non-GAAP information is significant to understanding trends and is important in analyzing the company's operating results and earnings and is providing this information to investors to assist in performing analysis of the company's operating results.
Three 2014 will be a 53-week fiscal year for Advance.
However the financial outlook provided today is based on a 42 -- 52-week fiscal year.
Four due to the timing of the General Parts acquisition close we are still in the process of working through accounting elements of the acquisition and as a result certain components within our annual outlook discussed today may change.
We will continue to advise you of such changes throughout the year.
Looking at 2014 we expect the strong industry fundamentals to continue and are encouraged by the sustained strong winter weather patterns and unseasonably cooler temperatures that have contributed to a good start to sales this year.
However it is still early and we remain balanced in our view due to the challenging year we just completed and persistent uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment continuing to affect the consumer.
As a result we anticipate our comp store sales to be in the range of flat to low single-digits.
As a reminder of our policy stores are included in our comp store sales calculation once a store has been open for 13 complete accounting periods or approximately 1 year.
Therefore our comp store sales in 2014 will include Advance BWP and Autopart International.
Stores will exclude any General Parts locations.
Turning to new stores.
We plan to collectively open 120 to 140 new Advance Auto Parts stores Autopart International stores and WORLDPAC branches.
We will also continue the work of integrating the remaining BWP stores by the middle of 2014.
Turning to gross profit rate.
Excluding the impact of achieved synergies we expect to see some improvement in 2014 combined entity gross profit rate driven by improved merchandise margins due to lower acquisition costs increased global sourcing and improvements in supply chain efficiencies partially offset by a higher mix of overall Commercial sales which has a lower gross profit rate.
Looking at SG&amp;A we expect our SG&amp;A for the combined entity excluding the impact of achieved synergies to remain essentially flat driven by new store growth annualization of new stores in 2013 and somewhat offset by improved labor productivity and improvements in our administrative support costs.
Moving on to synergies.
Consistent with our acquisition announcement we have estimated total run rate cost synergies of $160 million by approximately the end of the third year post-close of the acquisition and expect to achieve approximately $45 million to $55 million in synergy realization in 2014.
Also as per acquisition announcement we have estimated total one-time expenses to achieve synergies to be approximately $190 million over a 5-year period with the majority of the costs being incurred within the first 3 years.
We expect to incur approximately $55 million to $65 million in expenses to achieve synergies in 2014.
Turning to capital expenditures.
We expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $325 million to $350 million driven by new store development supply chain investments store systems and approximately $50 million to $60 million in capital related to the integration of General Parts.
We expect free cash flow to be a minimum of $450 million excluding the acquisition of General Parts.
As mentioned earlier our BWP integration program will continue in 2014 as we expect to complete the process by approximately the middle of 2014.
We estimate our BWP integration expenses to be approximately $12 million to $15 million for the year.
And as a reminder our outlook is based on a 52-week basis.
All in we expect our 2014 annual comparable cash EPS outlook to be in the range of $7.20 to $7.40 per share.
As a reminder and as further detailed in our press release this estimate includes synergies of $45 million to $55 million related to the acquisition of GPI excludes the amortization of intangibles -- assets associated with the acquisition of GPI excludes the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2014 excludes one-time integration costs associated with the continued integration of BWP and excludes one-time expenses to achieve synergies related to the acquisition of GPI.
In closing we are pleased with our comparable operating profit improvement in 2013 along with the positive momentum we carry into 2014.
We expect 2014 to be historic and we are confident about our future as we begin the journey of integrating General Parts and continue to improve on our base business.
I want to again welcome the new General Parts team members to the Advance team and thank our entire team for what they do every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a -- you've owned BWP now for a little while and that's the closest you've come in terms of having an in-depth knowledge of GPI.
Could you talk about the learnings and recognizing that's a little bit of a different situation because of the franchisee owning other franchisees? Can you talk about what you learn from the way they operate that gives you confidence in terms of things you could apply from GPII or other areas to Advance to improve performance going forward? Yes Gary.
This is Darren.
So there's a handful of things we learned.
First of all we learned culturally we're very similar to the -- whether it's GPI or BWP and that early on the work really is to retain the people that are serving our customers.
What we've seen in the first 12 months is that our retention levels after acquisition were actually better than the year before.
So the team members would clearly have a level of excitement about that.
I would say the other thing that we learned is that we had to do some product transitions and there were some product categories that the customer was very familiar with and very supportive of with their customers and those product transitions went just fine.
So we had to transition into some Advance private label product.
We had to transition some of our belts programs and the stocking programs and our retention levels were very good in terms of just product transitions.
Three it's not simply a real estate transaction that will take 1 of 3 types of transitions with BWP.
I would tell you that the one that we're seeing just outstanding results with are the ones where we consolidate a BWP into the backroom of an AAP what we call tuck and folds.
It seemed to be working really well.
We're retaining the revenues in much better rates than what we thought and we're retaining the team members and the customers.
There doesn't seem to be any customer retention challenges.
Now if we move a little further down the road we'll lose a little bit of business from those closest to us but overall it's exceeded our expectations.
I'd tell you the conversions are just a little trickier.
I would say those are meeting our expectations.
There's fewer of those and that's when we take an existing BWP and essentially inject a DIY business into it.
And what happens is there's a lot more change management with that.
And so I don't think it's a technical challenge.
And one of the challenges we did have is that you have to put an AAP system because the legacy explorer system which is the CARQUEST system was going away.
And one of the advantages we see of now owning GPI is that we have access to both systems now so the change management curve isn't as challenging in some of those conversions overall.
And I would say the fourth thing that we've learned overall is that positioning this integration with an integration team that's fully dedicated we finished what 33 by the end of this year.
We'll finish them all by the middle of next year.
We're using that same integration team.
Obviously we'll have to augment it.
And it's like anything in life you learn with each one that you do and we're able to execute them a little more seamlessly with each one we get done.
That gives me more confidence in terms of how we're positioning for the overall GPI integration.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My primary question relates to synergies.
So you quantified the year end number and it sounds like you're looking to book these ratably over the 3 years.
Can you talk about the qualitative buckets that you would expect to access earlier in the integration process whether one or the others is weighted more heavily in year 1 versus year 3.
Hey Matt it's Mike.
So as we said we expect to generate $160 million in synergies over the 3 years and we guided to the range of $45 million to $55 million in 2014.
If you break out those the breakout of the synergies we talked about was purchasing or procurement as we said in the script; scale and leverage I'm sure kind of cost synergies; and then supply chain.
So kind of the cadence around that we would expect in 2014 to see some of the purchasing synergies a little bit earlier and also some of the scale and leverage.
And then the supply chain just given now we're putting our -- their 38 DCs together with our 12 DCs and now 50 DCs and we've got some studies to do there.
The supply chain would come later on in that 3-year journey.
But the ones you're going to see this year are going to be more from the purchasing categories and the synergies there and then -- and some cost synergies.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then just by the way a very quick follow-up.
Thank you for quantifying the EPS impact of the extra week.
Should we think about the sales impact of that week just as we build up the model as being sort of an average week in your fiscal fourth quarter? Or would there be a reason to think of it differently? Exactly Matt.
And if that changes and throughout the year we'll give you that.
It's just difficult to predict 1 week especially in the fourth quarter just given the volatile that you sometimes see with the weather but I think the assumption you've made is exactly what I would do.
Our next question today comes from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the cash flow and the CapEx investments you've done.
Mike could you highlight what portion of the cost of the integration are cash versus noncash and also put that in the context of the CapEx going forward whether it's the run rate we should expect or does it go up as you start to figure out supply chain? Yes.
So first of all virtually all of those costs that we talked about of $190 million are all -- virtually all cash costs.
So -- and then -- and we...
P&amp;L costs.
P&amp;L costs and then the -- and then we've kind of broken out the capital separate.
So when we -- so you can see when we guided this year we guided our total capital lease year for $325 million to $350 million and we said roughly $50 million to $60 million of that is related to the acquisition.
Things like IT capital conversion capital stores supply chain systems so those are some of the capital buckets.
And then some of the cost buckets if you're interested in some of those buckets I think that was your question Greg is we've got project costs transition costs.
Early on we've got retention and severance costs conversion costs and then the last big bucket is IT costs.
So that gives you just the kind of the P&amp;L versus capital.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if you could just tie that into the $450 million or more of free cash flow I think you said that was x GPI.
Presumably that's x the GPI costs? Or that $450 million that's consolidated? Yes that's an all-in -- so the cash flow number's an all-in number.
The free cash flow number that we got it to the minimum $450 million that's an all-in number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And included in that would be any working capital benefits and if you have any guidance on that and then I'll let you go.
Yes it would be Greg.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much working capital do you think we could get? We haven't shared that out but that's a good one.
Yes.
And Greg those build over time.
I think we've had our first vendor meeting this week.
So...
I mean Greg just to give you a little bit of clarity.
I mean the one thing that we said in the announcement of the deal and I'll share with you again is maintaining our investment-grade ratings was important.
That will help us as we continue to improve our AP ratio.
We see some opportunities with GPI.
They have a lower AP ratio than we do in their base part of the GPI basis excluding the WORLDPAC part and we see some great opportunities improving that working capital through AP ratio with our investment-grade ratings.
But it's still too early to tell and provide any further guidance than that.
And we do have time for one more question from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you give us a concrete example of how you plan to leverage the capabilities and relationships that you kind of brought on board from GPI into the Advance store base? And then just kind of hopefully it's a sidebar how close are you to making any kind of meaningful decisions on store and DC consolidation plans? Yes Scot.
I'll give you 2 examples on GPI.
Last weekend I was in Orlando with members of my senior management team meeting with the TECH-NET customers and meeting with the independent channel customers.
The TECH-NET customers there's 5 300 of them and they tend to be more of the large bay garages.
If you look at the Motor Age they -- the #1 garage in the country this year was the Pellman garage in Colorado Springs and that's a TECH-NET customer.
And so one of the things Advance did not develop is its own auto care program for garages.
We don't need to.
The TECH-NET program is 17 years old.
Al Wheeler who George spoke about earlier has been with CARQUEST 17 years and helped build that program from the ground up.
And we see that as a tremendous asset that we would build upon with all the assets of GPI.
The other one is CARQUEST Technical Institute.
They're a training institute and to that point the WORLDPAC Training Institute goes out.
And when they train installers it's not just training them on new technical things but how to run a business.
We could run those programs 52 weeks a year and have them sold out.
Those are not capabilities that we build to help our -- our installers are more e-commerce-based.
And conversely our Moto shop suite are owned assets that we will offer through the CARQUEST organization and sales teams.
So those are just 2 simple ones.
I think as to the supply chain I'll just say this at this point.
We're just too early.
We recently engaged a third party to help work with us.
The LNO study has just begun and the color on that will be forthcoming later this year.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I will now turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5097.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Director of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
[Audio Gap] And thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically are words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to include impacts of cost that were incurred in fiscal 2014 in connection with the integration of General Parts International and BWP Distributors.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
For planning purposes our second quarter 2014 earnings release is scheduled for August 14 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday August 14 2014.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by thanking all of our team members for their hard work and commitment to better serve our customers and to grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you in our business operations; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financials.
I'll begin my prepared remarks today updating you on our first quarter performance including our business priorities followed by an overview of our integration of General Parts.
We are pleased with our start to 2014.
We continue to build on our momentum from the fourth quarter finish.
Our team members remain focused on our 3 core outcomes and continue to drive improvements into the business.
The base business improvements along with the ongoing benefits from the favorable winter weather enabled solid first quarter results.
Our total sales grew 47% in the quarter compared to the first quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of the acquisition and our positive comparable store sales increase of 2.4% in the quarter.
Our first quarter comparable cash earnings per share of $2.25 increased 35.5% versus our first quarter last year driven principally by the acquisition of General Parts and the base business performance.
Specifically we delivered low single digit comparable store sales gains in DIY and mid-single digit gains in commercial both showing acceleration from our previous quarter.
Entering the first quarter we saw steady customer demand due to the extreme weather.
We experienced some volatility early in the quarter from weather-related store closures yet we capitalized on opportunities including double-digit sales increases in batteries and antifreeze as well as a strong wiper business.
Sales in all markets accelerated from the fourth quarter with our cold weather markets accelerating at a faster pace.
In particular our Northeast and Great Lakes markets benefited the most from the extreme winter conditions.
The consumer continues to be targeted with their spending as they perform needed repairs resulting from part failure or safety to ensure vehicle reliability in tough winter conditions.
Our customers likely benefited from timely tax refunds and stable gas prices versus a year ago to pay for these unexpected repairs.
Overall there has been more consistent day-in and day-out customer traffic in 2014.
During the quarter both our gross profit rate and our comparable SG&amp;A rate declined.
Gross profit declined 446 basis points to 45.6% and SG&amp;A improved on a comparable basis 383 basis points to 36%.
This was due to the acquisition of General Parts and it was in line with our expectations.
Notably our continuing SG&amp;A focus on the base AAP business remains on track.
Mike will be discussing the financials in more detail shortly.
In 2014 we have 2 very clear overarching priorities: First ensure delivery of our base business outcomes; and second the successful execution of the year 1 deliverables of the multi-year General Parts integration plan.
Within our base business consistency is critical through building on our operational and execution achievements.
We will continue to invest in those areas that drive our sales growth customer service excellence and profit outcomes.
We remain focused on driving sequential improvement in our sales of our DIY and our Commercial Business.
In DIY we are increasing our sustained investment in training including the company rollout of a new automotive systems training driving productivity improvements and leveraging our parts availability to meet our core customer needs.
In commercial we continue to strengthen our existing and build new ones our relationships and focus our efforts on moving up the call list.
We are growing the national accounts and our portfolio of larger bay accounts through consistent service and the strongest in-market availability.
We are introducing CARQUEST TechNet CARQUEST Technical Institute and WORLDPAC to existing Advance customers while attracting new customers with the broadest set of capabilities in the market.
An example of a high-impact initiative is our cross-sourcing which is gaining strong momentum between CARQUEST and Advance with over 5 000 CARQUEST and Advance stores currently ordering from each other.
I'll discuss this more shortly.
We are also focused on serving approximately 1 400 independents across the U.S.
and Canada.
Over the last few months our organization has put forth tremendous effort to plan for and support the growth of this important business and we are focusing on the needs of these individual business owners.
We are always working to strengthen our core customer service proposition and the outcomes.
We have been seeing visible improvements from our investments in training simplification and creating a principle of ownership in our field where our team members and our store GMs are leading by example and empowering our teams to deliver the service our customers have come to expect.
George will speak in more detail about this in a minute.
Turning now to our integration.
I'd like to update you on our progress so far.
At the outset of the integration planning process we embraced the following 4 principles as part of our operational framework: Number one prioritize and drive the day-to-day performance of the base business and make decisions in the best interest of our customer; two bring the best from both organizations; three focus on capturing the expected synergies including efforts to achieve economies of scale and enhanced efficiency; and finally balance the delivery of long-term value while establishing integration momentum and rapid execution on specific activities.
Overall we are pleased with our initial progress we have made in the first 4 months of this integration.
We are still in the early days of a multiyear integration process but we're off to a start that we expected.
The important activities out of the gate were first to align our leadership and begin integrating our teams followed by communicate it early and often to our independent customers.
Notably we are pleased and confident in the operating leaders from General Parts that are taking key leadership roles in the combined company including David McCartney Bob Cushing Al Wheeler Steve Gushie and others.
Subsequently we began focusing on early quick win opportunities while commencing some of our longer-tail activities.
One of the first quick win opportunities for our customers was to leverage our leading inventory availability by launching cross-sourcing capabilities between Advance and CARQUEST stores.
We are beginning to see good early results with cross sourcing enabling our teams to say yes to our customers more often.
Our independent customers are also leveraging this advantage to drive increased same day in-market availability and to access new products.
This and other efforts have positioned us for a good start with our important independent partners and we are pleased to report that our independent growth and retention rate is roughly similar to that experienced by CARQUEST prior to the acquisition.
In addition we have successfully introduced WORLDPAC sourcing into Advance Auto Part stores in selected markets.
We believe this is an opportunity to expand the distribution of WORLDPAC products by leveraging into thousands of Advance Auto Parts points of distribution as we look to improve our service levels and assortment to the import customer.
The program is off to a good start and we anticipate continuing to expand the program throughout the year.
Our cost synergy work which is expected to realize between $45 million and $55 million this fiscal year is well underway and it is progressing as expected in the first quarter.
We have also begun parallel planning work on our long-tail activities including our comprehensive supply chain network assessment our store consolidation and conversion strategy and integration to a common set of processes and IT systems.
As we progress through this early planning work the knowledge we are gaining reinforces our confidence in driving the long-term value from the acquisition and achieving our 3-year synergy target of $160 million.
The planning work is revealing adjacent benefits by providing us insights from General Parts on how to more effectively execute future store conversions.
We will provide more updates on these longer-term activities as they progress.
Overall we are pleased with our start to the year.
I am encouraged by the progress we are making with our operational execution.
Our teams are focused on the importance of driving consistent sales outcomes and building upon our comp momentum generated over the past 2 quarters.
The simplification work and training has strengthened our field team's ability to execute on the fundamentals and maintain our customer focus.
The early integration progress suggests it will allow us to leverage our breadth of capabilities build market-leading positions with our commercial customers and enable us to capture scale economics from this acquisition.
Our growth and profitability is on track.
Our first quarter comparable results generated a 35.5% comparable EPS growth a step in the right direction.
Looking ahead to Q2 we are encouraged by the sales momentum resulting from the weather and the sustained execution of our team to meet that demand.
We are very pleased with our integration efforts and these related benefits that they are delivering.
Together our operational and integration momentum position us to expect a very solid year.
I'd like to close by once again thanking all of our team members for their tremendous hard work and good start to the year.
I will now turn the call over to George Sherman.
George? Thanks Darren.
Good morning everyone.
First I'd like to thank all of our team members for their contributions to customer service in the quarter and doing all the right things to show our customers that we put them first.
At the heart of executional excellence is great customer service and our team members drove our success this quarter to their commitment to the customer.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide a view on our first quarter business performance followed by a business update including our key priorities within the quarter.
Looking at sales we're pleased with our performance in the first quarter as the team delivered a same-store sales outcome of 2.4% a sequential acceleration of 230 basis points from our fourth quarter and 100 basis points on a 2-year basis.
Our positive sales performance was attributable to solid execution by our field merchant and supply chain teams combined with a continued customer demand on the frigid winter conditions that persisted throughout much of the first quarter.
Notably we did experience weather-related sales disruptions at intervals in the quarter which kept some of our stores and distribution centers from opening or operating under normal hours.
Overall we're pleased with our sales performance in the first quarter.
We'll continue focusing our efforts on a greater outcome.
As a result of the acquisition our newly combined commercial mix now stands at 56% with our Commercial Business continuing to grow disproportionately.
We generated good comp acceleration in our Commercial Business with the cold weather markets in the Northeast and Great Lakes leading the way benefiting from both transaction and ticket growth in the quarter.
As Darren mentioned we're focused on growing our strategic accounts and we're making progress on that front as we saw double-digit sales growth in the quarter with key accounts.
Our B2B business also continues to perform very well with approximately 40% growth in the first quarter.
Other areas we're starting to leverage in order to drive continued commercial growth include our TechNet program a business that creates a partnership with independent repair shops to drive their sales and retain their customers.
It's already over 5 000 locations strong and primed for acceleration.
Another area we're very excited about is the CARQUEST Technical Institute which is a sales technical and management training program for Advance Auto Parts professional and CARQUEST Auto Parts customers.
Looking at our DIY business we're pleased with our positive comp performance.
Similar to commercial our cold weather markets led the way with comps leveraging the increase in ticket growth due to higher-priced battery sales.
This was a good outcome for our DIY business but we aspire for more.
Make no mistake about it DIY is critical to our mission to be the best.
While commercial is the company's growth engine DIY remains a sizable and highly profitable part of our business.
We're intensifying our efforts to improve DIY and what it takes to win.
We're launching new advertising campaigns piloting a customer rewards program on a test-and-learn basis in select markets and accelerating our B2C business that continues to perform very well with over 80% of e-commerce customers leveraging our site to buy online and pick up in store.
As I've mentioned previously we're on a mission to reignite our focus on sales great customer service and profitability.
The structural changes we've been making to our field organization have been taking root and I can say with confidence the focus is working.
Our efforts around simplifying our business model and taking steps forward to a field-centric operating model are beginning to drive the outcomes that we're expecting.
I now want to touch on the area of customer service.
Our customer service scores are on the rise.
We're working from the customer back and we're relentlessly focused on fine-tuning our current capabilities.
And where we have gaps we're closing them.
We continue our quest of having the best team in the business through sustained investment in our training programs.
The training is resulting in team members having improved counter knowledge enhanced by a deeper technical understanding.
Our robust automotive systems training program is giving them the confidence to serve our customers better than ever.
We're not stopping there.
We're speaking to our customers.
But more importantly we're listening to them.
We're asking how we get better and they're telling us.
We're then taking that feedback into actionable improvements.
Overall I'm pleased with how our customer service and customer-focused initiatives are starting to come together and we're getting stronger.
I've previously talked about disciplined execution and accountability as keys to success.
Our field leaders are building more muscle definition here and are more than ever focused on being accountable to the outcomes rather than the activities.
They're focused on the key financial drivers of their respective businesses and are exhibiting owner-operator mentality on key outcomes such as strong expense control.
Improving sales execution is not an overnight process but a series of building blocks and we continue to lead up [ph] and see many positive signs as we look ahead to the balance of the year.
Turning to our integration I'll build on Darren's comments and share a few additional insights from an operational perspective.
As mentioned our integration efforts are underway and we're progressing as expected.
The second source quick win is a visible proof point displaying the tremendous cooperation and sense of team across the enterprise and it builds more confidence with our field teams and our commercial value proposition.
Second source is a culture of looking to partner internally versus looking outside the company and driving the benefits of a stronger in-market availability and speed of delivery for our customers.
This availability improvement is enabling our teams to say yes to our customers on the critical question as to whether or not we have a part in stock.
The impact of the WORLDPAC introduction in the AAP stores is another significant quick win.
This capability should further strengthen Advance's position as the import authority in the automotive industry.
Continuing on the topic of integration but changing gears slightly I'd like to update you on our BWP integration process.
During our first quarter we successfully consolidated or converted another 35 BWP store locations.
Those stores continue to perform well and generate results that exceed our expectations.
With regards to our remaining BWP store conversions we've deliberately decided to extend the time line for completion.
We've determined there are aspects of the BWP conversions that are best done alongside the CARQUEST integration program enabling us to leverage the strategy integration strengths and efficiencies of a larger reference [ph].
We now expect the BWP conversions to be complete by the end of the fiscal year.
Moving on I'd like to update you now on our supply chain initiatives.
Looking first at our distribution centers we continue to see good performance of our Remington facility and are now servicing 442 Advance locations.
We continue to progress our daily delivery capability and now 282 Advance stores receiving 6x delivery between both our Remington and Lakeland distribution centers with the majority of CARQUEST stores also receiving 5x daily delivery out of the 34 CARQUEST DCs.
As previously stated our comprehensive distribution network optimization study is in flight and is expected to conclude around midyear.
We'll keep you updated on that.
Second we continue to drive improvements of in-market availability through our hub store strategy.
During the quarter we added 31 hub stores through a combination of new stores upgrades of existing stores and the addition of 15 hub stores as a result of the acquisition.
At the end of the quarter our hub store count was 405 an overall increase of 57 from the first quarter last year.
Third as we look at inventory our inventory growth was up over 60% year-over-year in the first quarter primarily due to the General Parts acquisition and our increase in hub stores.
We continue to be focused on our goal of having superior availability the deepest assortment and continuing to invest in our strategy of getting parts closest to the customer.
Looking at our new store growth during the quarter we opened 20 new Advance and CARQUEST stores and closed 9 stores bringing the company total store count to 5 276.
We also added 2 WORLDPAC branches in the quarter bringing our total branch count to 105.
We're progressing as expected and continue to pace our new store openings to be in line with our guidance of between 120 and 140 new stores this fiscal year.
As I close out my remarks today I'd like to share one aspect that is gathering momentum at our company from a cultural perspective.
We are clearly seeing a reinvigoration and pride across the organization.
From our support center taking pride in how they support our stores to our field leaders in stores working together to develop market plans drive business outcomes and taking pride in the sales performance.
Being the best is a journey.
And our next steps are to channel our investments and our energy in a pattern of habitual winning.
That pride and spirit was evident in our first quarter performance and we're excited to continue taking strides forward and progressing against our mission in Q2.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers in the quarter and helping our company deliver solid financial performance in our first quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: One provide some financial highlights from our first quarter of 2014; two put our first quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial priorities that we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2014.
Before I begin my remarks about the quarter I would like to remind everyone Advance will present its financials and supporting commentary unless otherwise specified on a consolidated enterprise basis inclusive of General Parts' results.
We see our combination with General Parts as an integrated expansion of our commercial assets and capabilities to grow with our existing customers and attract new ones.
In addition we will also include results on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of onetime integration expenses related to the acquisition of both General Parts and BWP along with any amounts related to the amortization of intangibles resulting from the acquisition of General Parts.
The company believes this non-GAAP information is significant to understanding trends and is important in analyzing the company's operating results and earnings.
Coming into 2014 we completed the transaction of General Parts and began the work of integrating the 2 companies.
Another significant work stream that kicked off was purchase accounting assessment.
We have completed our preliminary evaluation of the opening balance sheet and the evaluation of accounting policies and conformity with regard to the acquisition of General Parts.
Included in the accounting conformity was a reclassification of approximately 70 basis points of supply chain costs from SG&amp;A to gross profit in the first quarter.
This adjustment had no impact to operating income.
We are pleased to report a first quarter comparable EPS -- cash EPS of $2.25 a 35.5% increase from our first quarter in 2013.
The first quarter results reflect a continuation of the sales momentum from our strong finish in the fourth quarter.
Our sales momentum was driven by sustained progress on our operational execution improvements as well as the continued consumer demand.
In addition to sales momentum other notable drivers include $0.07 in synergy realization in the quarter and $0.05 in onetime favorable tax audit settlements.
On a GAAP basis our first quarter EPS of $2.01 which included $0.11 of intangible asset amortization associated with the acquisition of General Parts and also included $0.10 of onetime expenses to achieve synergies related to the integration of General Parts and $0.03 in onetime costs associated with the integration of BWP.
Turning to sales our first quarter net sales increased 47.3% to $2.97 billion compared to our first quarter of 2013.
This sales growth was principally driven by the acquisition of General Parts our comparable same-store sales increase of 2.4% and the addition of new stores.
As a reminder sales from General Parts are not included on our comparable sales calculation.
As I mentioned earlier our positive same-store sales was driven by strong execution from our field and supply chain teams to meet consumer demand.
Moving to gross profit.
In the first quarter of 2014 our comparable gross profit dollars increased 34% to $1.35 billion from $1.01 billion in our first quarter of 2013.
Our comparable gross profit rate of 45.6% was down 446 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was the result of the acquisition of General Parts resulting in a higher mix of commercial sales that has a lower gross profit rate the approximate 70 basis points of supply chain reclass I shared earlier offset by 24 basis points of synergy savings in the quarter.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
In the first quarter our comparable SG&amp;A rate of 36% was down 383 basis points compared to our first quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was the result of the acquired General Parts business having a lower SG&amp;A cost structure the approximate 70 basis points of supply chain reclass and cost leverage from our 2.4% comp store sales increase offset by increased occupancy costs due to the severe winter weather and higher incentive compensation due to our better sales performance.
All-in on a comparable basis our 2014 first quarter operating income dollars increased 38.2% to $284.4 million and our operating income rate decreased 63 basis points over the same period last year to 9.6% primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts.
Our operating cash flow for the quarter was $81.1 million versus $135.3 million last year driven by an increase in owned inventory partially offset by higher net income in the quarter.
The increase in owned inventory was driven by our continued efforts to improve our availability.
Our total consolidated inventory increased 61.4% versus 2013 driven by the acquisition of General Parts and we expect our inventory growth to flatten as we progress throughout the year.
Our free cash flow for the quarter was $20.1 million and in line with our expectations.
Our accounts payable to owned inventory ratio for the quarter was 76.1% versus 86.7% last year.
This decline was expected due to the acquisition of General Parts.
And as previously shared we see continued opportunities to improve our AP ratio as a combined company.
At the end of the first quarter we had roughly $2.07 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 3.1x driven by the acquisition of General Parts and was in line with our expectations.
As previously stated we are committed to quickly paying down debt with our free cash flow to get back below the 2.5x leverage ratio and maintaining our investment-grade ratings.
We continue to measure the performance of our business and prioritize our investments to achieve growth profit and value creation.
Our growth engine continues to be our Commercial Business and our acquisition of General Parts has positioned us to accelerate our commercial customer growth.
Growth will also come from our new store development including WORLDPAC as we see significant opportunities to increase our geographic footprint.
Finally we expect to continue to improve our operational performance and execution through investments and availability supply chain store systems and team member development.
Turning to profit.
As a newly combined company we are pleased with our 9.6% operating income rate that we achieved in our first quarter and see continued opportunities to improve our profitability.
We remain on track to achieve our year 1 cost synergies of $45 million to $55 million on our way to achieving the total expected cost synergies of $160 million over the next 3 years.
We're also focused on improving our profitability by growing our sales to better leverage our new size and scale and improving our cost efficiency.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of General Parts provides us a compelling opportunity to drive shareholder returns through incremental earnings and strong cash flows.
We see this -- we saw this in the first quarter with a 35.5% increase in our comparable EPS.
As a combined business with General Parts we expect to drive strong operating cash flow which will enable us to rapidly pay down our debt to get back to our previously stated leverage ceiling of 2.5x within the next 2 years.
Once our debt is paid down we will continue to leverage our capital structure to maximize shareholder value.
Turning to the balance of the year we are pleased with our start to 2014 and the momentum we have.
We shared this morning in our press release that we have raised our full year annual consolidated comparable EPS outlook to be in the range of $7.30 to $7.50.
Historically we have not raised our outlook this early in the year.
However we are now 120 days into our combination with General Parts and have learned more about their business through our integration efforts.
This coupled with our business momentum has allowed us to increase our outlook.
As George shared we now expect our BWP conversions to be complete by the end of 2014 versus our prior expectation of completing the conversions by midyear.
We still estimate the BWP integration cost to be between $12 million to $15 million for the full year.
As previously shared we had a favorable onetime tax settlement within the quarter.
Consequently our first quarter tax rate is not representative of the rate for the balance of the year due to this onetime event.
As such we expect to maintain an effective tax rate of 38% for the balance of the fiscal year.
Finally we estimate the 70 basis points reclass between SG&amp;A and gross profit that I shared earlier will have approximately the same impact to the remaining quarters.
Turning to phasing.
We're on pace to deliver our first year cost synergies.
However we expect the majority of these synergies will occur in the back half of the year.
In closing we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and are off to a good start to the year.
Our focus is still squarely set on our 2 key priorities of delivering on our base business outcomes and successfully integrating General Parts.
The integration is progressing as expected with the team generating some early quick wins while delivering the synergy benefits we expected.
We continue to see team momentum and incremental progress in our efforts to simplify our business and are pleased with the progress we continue to see with our operational execution.
I want to once again thank our over 74 000 talented team members for what they do each and every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our great company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Gary Balter with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Darren when you were talking you were talking about sourcing and the first initiatives of WORLDPAC sourcing going into the markets could you or George expand on that a little bit? And as part of that how does AI fit into the picture? Yes.
WORLDPAC a couple of things.
One their speed-dial system which is their online ordering system for a long time they've had those installed in the capability in the CARQUEST stores.
What we've done is taken a version of speed-dial and put it in 2 markets right now that allows our parts pros to be able to order the WORLDPAC products.
So instead of going to maybe another competitor or dealer to get that product to deliver to our customers what we're doing is offering a deeper selection of WORLDPAC product in our stores.
We thought we'd test it in 2 markets.
I got to tell you it is an outsize piece of the second source business we do today which means there's a group of customers out there that WORLDPAC has an industry-leading reputation but there's still other customers that desire it that may not get as much access because they don't do enough volume but they want it.
And what we're seeing in our stores we're able to supply that.
In terms of Autoparts International right now it's business as usual in that we have so much going on in the integration process.
That team is heads down in terms of executing their business plan.
And the small things they are doing with the integration include working with the WORLDPAC team to see other parts of the Autoparts International product offer that could be distributed to WORLDPAC.
And I think we won't take that decision lightly.
We want to make sure it works for the WORLDPAC customers but Autoparts International has product lines like their exhaust lines absolutely revered in the industry.
And so if we can increase distribution of their products where we're not essentially stepping on each other whether that's Canada whether that's out west or other select markets we think that's yet another opportunity and the teams are sizing that amongst many of the revenue opportunities that we're still working through.
Would you add anything George? Just a couple things Darren.
First of all I mentioned in my comments that second sourcing is a practice of looking internally.
That's obviously a counterintuitive statement.
Normally second sourcing is looking elsewhere to find the parts because we didn't have it.
I say that because we are now seeing a significant portion of second sourcing happening within the family the combination of Advance Auto Parts CARQUEST WORLDPAC and Autopart International.
So they both play key roles in that.
I further say that the test of WORLDPAC in Advance stores is giving us a very nice halo effect.
We think that WORLDPAC is a dynamite service model and it's now bringing that into the Advance store.
Research Division</strong> And do you find -- like because you're bringing it into Advance how do you deal with the potential conflict from the CARQUEST store that had that already? Yes.
So Gary we are going to have a few places again where there's conflict overall.
But what we're talking about is a level of volume that I think the overall relationship between the stores is -- the way we've tried to build up between all of them is that our first goal is to always serve the end customer.
And the volumes that we're talking about at this level I don't think are really creating any angst at this point.
You're going to have some flare-ups for sure.
But at this point the customers that are -- have the increased availability are really giving us positive feedback for it.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then one follow-up and then I'll get off.
We keep on talking about $160 million of cost synergies.
But I'm assuming that doesn't include like any of the benefits you're seeing like it's purely cost that we're talking.
So we're not talking about any benefits from cross sourcing or this WORLDPAC sourcing I just asked about.
Is that fair to think about it that way? Gary I think a better way to think about it is we haven't included any sale -- type of sales benefits in there.
But remember the synergies fall into 3 buckets: purchasing synergies supply chain synergies and then scale and leverage synergies.
So that's what we've said and that's $160 million.
And we've given the guidance this year of $45 million to $55 million.
So things that benefit our margins around costs are included in those synergies.
The next question is from Greg Melich with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up if you could give any color in terms of how underlying gross margins were in the business given the -- obviously the comparables sort of screwed up given the acquisition.
And I have a follow-up.
Greg it was tough to hear you.
I think your first question was how was the underlying gross margins is that -- was that the question? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
So yes when you put these 2 businesses together you can see that there was a decline on our gross margin rate of 446 basis points and that was primarily driven by the purchase of GPI which has a higher mix of commercial and a lower gross profit rate.
When you -- if you look into the businesses we met the expectations with respect to our gross profit rate in both businesses.
So we were pleased on that front.
Obviously a driver was the synergies we started off of the gate even though the majority of the synergies will come in the back half of the year.
We did see some synergies in the quarter from our purchasing.
I think in my remarks I talked about that was about 24 basis points.
But I think we're pleased with the progress we've made.
Some of the drivers are our global sourcing some of the supply chain efficiencies in GPI last year.
They made some changes to their supply chain.
Those showed up in margin.
And then the offset of that obviously is the higher mix in commercial.
So both businesses met the expectations with respect to gross profit rate.
Research Division</strong> And the expectations were for basically flat with some improvement from synergies just...
No.
What we said is that the gross profit rate would be modestly up and that did not include the synergies.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second was on inflation.
Is there any out there now? And if so are you passing it through? And how does that bake into your outlook? Yes Greg.
I'd say we see very modest inflation.
There's some indication on oil going out into Q3 and Q4.
If and when that passes through we haven't seen any resistance from a general market competitive standpoint of being able to increase ASPs.
You go out and you do your own checks you can see how that's moved up in the oil business on a year-on-year basis.
We think from a commodity standpoint it's moderate.
And what we're seeing in Asia is very moderate pressure on pricing capacity is -- there's plenty of capacity.
So it's going to be moderate consistent with probably the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And I had one last one for George.
I know when you got there last summer you made some changes to how store managers are compensated incentivized et cetera.
Could you give us an update on sort of the traction those initiatives are having? And how you think it's helped or hasn't helped as much as you'd hoped if it hasn't? Yes sure.
I'll hit a couple of them.
I think we said early on that there really was no on-off switch for sales.
It's a building block process and it's a series of steps that I think are leading us in the right direction.
So we're very very happy with the commercial evolution of our business and how our general managers how our district leaders how our regional vice presidents have really rallied around and begun to think commercial first and really drive that business.
The outcomes focus we've done an awful lot of work to clarify the message to our teams.
We've removed extraneous metrics and kept them focused on the key ones which really drive around growing our sales providing great customer service and the profitability of our businesses.
And that has worked.
I think that has really kept our team laser-focused on the outcomes as opposed to the process metrics which are important but come secondarily.
We really try to and I think have begun to build a culture of accountability and have a deep sense of performance management built in.
So we have expectations every day.
We have quarterly rhythms with our teams where they come in and we had all our regional vice presidents from across the corporation in last week.
And they go through their business for the entire quarter and they meet with the leadership team and are accountable for that.
And I'm very proud of the way that they've risen to the occasion and have taken ownership for and accountability for their overall business.
And our conversations and I think the significance of the comp is we're much more focused on conversations around sales and barriers to sales as opposed to expense management.
Expense management has been extraordinary.
The team has done a terrific job with that and that really is just happening automatically within the business and we're leveraging.
But the conversation around growing the business and the hunger around growing the business and the competitiveness around growing the business really has our team culturing in a new place.
And that may be one of the most important things that we have to say this quarter is that we have a good healthy competitive environment in our stores in our field structure and a team that is really focused on growing their top line growing their comps.
So all-in that plus the whole idea of the field-centric environment where our support center has really risen to the occasion and has taken a great deal of pride in getting individual or groups of stores better poised to go capture sales has been a big big win for us.
So I'm pleased with the progress and I think it's become culturally very noticeable in Advance Auto Parts.
Research Division</strong> And when do you expect to roll that out into the CARQUEST group? Or you don't want to throw too much into it right now? I think right now we've been very focused on assimilation of the CARQUEST team and just building great relationships with the CARQUEST team.
We've said before that culturally we're cut from the same cloth.
The companies followed very similar paths as they grew up.
So our relationship with CARQUEST field leadership and CARQUEST overall leadership has been tremendous.
And we've integrated some of those folks.
Al Wheeler is our Senior Vice President of Commercial for our enterprise now.
Al comes from the CARQUEST business.
Dave McCartney he's the President of CARQUEST but is deeply integrated in all of our business rhythms going forward.
And that's kind of happening across the board where the teams are cross-pollinating more and more.
So when we had that meeting last week when I mentioned we brought our field leadership into Roanoke for a series of quarterly business reviews that meant CARQUEST too.
So those general managers and those divisional vice presidents were here and part of that process and I think got a lot of it and enjoyed their time.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> So my first question revolves around WORLDPAC as well.
It looks like you have some nice early wins there in your test markets.
Would you care to quantify what type of revenue synergies you're experiencing in those test markets? They're good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Taking to the other side WORLDPAC core growth you mentioned plenty of opportunity to grow geographically with that business.
Can you give us a sense of where you are now penetration-wise and where you think you could be in a couple of years? Yes Seth.
This is Darren.
So a couple of things.
So WORLDPAC is on track this year to open at least 6 more branches.
Literally as George was saying the week before George Mike and I and a few others were out visiting with Bob Cushing.
Their team is heads down running their base business and their base business grew very nicely this quarter both top line and bottom line.
What we've asked Bob to do is give us a view by the end of the second quarter I'll call it an artist rendering is how big WORLDPAC can get over the next several years.
We think with the 106-plus branches that he has he is still early in his growth.
And I think it's key that we not ask Bob to do something new.
His formula is working.
So he's identifying markets where he can take his model and continue to accelerate what he's doing best.
And so what we had believed initially in the acquisition thesis I would say we're even more encouraged based on what we see today in terms of growth profile.
I think some of the pleasant surprises have been there continues to be some product overlap between WORLDPAC take basic things like Dorman.
And so those things fit into the synergy profile which is nice.
And we also see a nice synergy in terms of how they're working with our e-commerce team out in California.
They're 20 miles away from each other and our e-commerce team helps support our B2B platform.
So it's so far so good.
It's early days.
Growth we like it.
What we can see in synergies we're encouraged by.
And what we can see in terms of I would say capability around technology should be synergistic between WORLDPAC and the greater enterprise too.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And just making sure I'm clear you talked about you like what you see with GPI.
I assume obviously that refers to WORLDPAC.
But what about the core CARQUEST business? How did that perform in the quarter? And what do you -- what's different than what you were experiencing or thinking prior to the acquisition? Seth it's Mike.
Maybe I'll start and I'll pass it to George.
We're very pleased with the business.
We've got a lot going on in our company with the integration.
And as Darren said we're focused on the base business and integration and that team did a super job and they met the expectations around their plan.
So we were very pleased.
Yes.
Not much to add Mike.
I think -- again we gave a series of targets to the CARQUEST team.
And much like the overall enterprise they met them.
So we're pleased with the overall business trend and we're pleased with the integration progress.
We're pleased culturally that the teams are overlapping well.
The next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think a little bit of a follow-up here.
Can you just help us understand a little bit GPI's total contribution to sales and EBIT in the quarter? And since we don't really have year-over-year quarterly actuals kind of what that year-over-year change was? I think we're just trying to get a little bit more clarity on that.
Yes.
So Scot it's Mike.
We're not going to break out the businesses.
And as I said in the remarks is we view this combination now as an integrated expansion of our commercial assets and capabilities going after and growing our existing customers and attracting new customers.
So that's how we think about the business.
That's how the organization is rallying around growing this business both from a growth and profit standpoint.
I'll help you out a little bit.
If you remember at the beginning of the year to help you think about the year -- and I think it's good to think about the year and look at the top line and look at the bottom line.
There's going to be a little bit of noise in the year when you put these businesses together because the gross margins are a little bit different and the SG&amp;A is a little bit different.
But if you look at the top line and are we growing and you look at the profit that we're growing I think that's a good way to look at the business.
When -- at the beginning of the year we gave you a little bit of a cadence.
If the businesses hadn't been combined last year we said the business would have finished off somewhere between $9.4 billion and $9.5 billion.
The gross profit rate would have been somewhere between 45.5% and 46% and the SG&amp;A rate would have been somewhere between 36.5% and 37%.
So that's what we said.
And then what we -- and that was without synergies.
And what we expected is we were going to add some synergies roughly $45 million to $55 million in synergies that would go into that -- that would be additional to that number.
And then we expected that both businesses would grow.
I think the only change that happens now with respect to those numbers is we did have a reclass of supply chain from accounting conformity primarily on the GPI side.
That moves SG&amp;A from SG&amp;A to gross profit about 70 basis points.
I anticipate that's going to be there for the entire year.
So if you adjust that out I think we're right on plan for growing off those base numbers of 2013.
And that's how I would think about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Sounds like we're not going to get more than that.
Another question is we may wind up hearing more about this in the June Analyst Meeting.
But should we expect store consolidation plans? And could that wind up changing the cost synergy assumption you guys have laid out for everybody? Yes.
We could -- Scot this is Darren.
We are working through I think in my prepared comments by the end of Q2 to have a clear view on number of consolidations number of conversions.
You can imagine we have an artist rendering today of that and we're working with field teams to make sure that the artist rendering and the blueprint make sense.
What we see is you're going to get a couple of things is that in our initial $160 million we had some estimates for what the benefit would be from some of those consolidations.
What we're doing now is -- BWP's helped us refine those.
It's also helped us refine what the DIY lift will be in the converted stores.
And then the other piece that we're still working through is that when you consolidate a store there is a benefit to the existing store because the customers served out of that Advance store end up with a higher service level.
So the core customers in the store should benefit as well and we have the team working through that too.
We haven't finalized the analyst materials for the Analyst Day.
But naturally we expect that talking about the store conversion strategy would be something that would be on your mind.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just a clarification on that Darren.
You mentioned that the DIY lift but I thought the $160 million didn't include any revenue synergies? So is that -- help me reconcile those 2.
Yes.
So there's 2 things going on.
We will lose some -- when you consolidate the store you're going to lose some Commercial Business because you're not going to retain 100% of the revenue.
When we convert a store we'll pick up some DIY.
So we've made some preliminary estimates not final estimates as to what that impact would be in the $160 million but we viewed that -- the primary benefit you're going to get from that is you get to leave some costs behind right Scot? And so that's why we've said it's in the fixed cost savings and we kind of netted out some of the revenue.
I would say at this point we're encouraged by what we've learned from BWP.
And as we refine those estimates you know what we'll provide some context to that.
The next question is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the integration with BWP even prior to the GPI acquisition.
The pace of that integration was running slower than the original plan.
Can you give us more information as to what was responsible for that and then what are the implications when you think about the consolidation conversion of that 1 200 company-owned CARQUEST stores? Yes Dan.
I think when you look back at the BWP conversion that's pre-acquisition our role was relatively static.
So we took those initial BWP stores.
We converted them over to our product line.
We converted them over to our systems.
We consolidated.
And things have changed for us now.
So that was a learning process for us and it was progressing.
And we were poised to go ahead and take that one all the way through to completion.
As you think about it now they're CARQUEST stores.
They were BWP owned but they're CARQUEST stores.
We now have a larger conversion and consolidation process that's going to get into motion here and we have to be considerate of the brand hierarchy that we're going to roll forward with.
We have to consider the systems architecture we're going to roll forward with.
And we have to consider the supply chain strategy that we're going to roll forward with.
So all 3 of those things really make a pausing on this I think a good idea and folding into the broader conversion strategy going forward.
We don't want to make stores and teams go through change management twice.
So we're going to be very careful that going forward we've got our go-forward planning then we're just going to roll it into the broader consolidation.
But I would say that in general there are aspects of consolidation and conversion now that are easier.
We run different POS platforms we own both now.
We had different brands we have access to both now.
We had one DC network we have a shared DC network that we're going to begin to optimize going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But with the consolidation in the BWP stores so the stores that you've consolidated what is the greatest distance between an Advance and a BWP store where a consolidation would makes sense? Are we talking about a 20-minute drive 10-minute drive time between the 2? I think in general terms you think in terms of a 3-mile ring.
These locations were really fairly close together.
If there's a chance to have incremental new store count we're going to take that.
But it just makes a lot of financial sense to consolidate these businesses.
We're in that 1- 2- 3-mile range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And George also I wanted to ask you a question on the process of achieving the buying synergies.
I mean this must be a really daunting process for your buyers over 100 000 active SKUs within the Advance network.
I'm not sure how many that CARQUEST was managing but it could be a similar number right? So for your buyers to touch every category through this product line review are we talking about a 6-month endeavor a 1-year endeavor? Dan this is Charles.
Fortunately we have team members on both brands that have actually done acquisitions before.
And so when we get into the technical side of lining up our assortments we're well down that path and we feel very confident the teams are actually slightly ahead of the deadlines that I'd set them to get that work done.
In terms of making sure that we stay on track from a synergy perspective to drive the outcomes yes they've got to get in and do the negotiations with our vendors and that work is progressing to the targets that we set the team.
So yes the sheer size of the number of SKUs can sound daunting but we've got a very focused process and a cadence inside both buildings to make sure that we stay on track and I'm very happy with the work that the team has accomplished in the first 90 days.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just the last question I have will the -- this product line review process and the savings that you're achieving are there any negative consequences on the vendor-financed inventory programs such that we might not see the payables inventory rate that we might have been expecting before the acquisition? No Dan it's Mike.
Actually I think we're really pleased by the early work we're seeing.
As you saw our AP ratio kind of gets recalibrated now to 76.1%.
And Charles and the team are I would say are right on track.
And I think what we said is that we expect that AP ratio to continue now to grow in a new base as we work with our vendors and partner with them.
And the whole idea of growing our AP ratio is around growth getting more inventory into our stores and having the availability in order to serve the customers.
So -- but we're on track in terms of what we anticipate as we go forward.
Our final question today comes from Mike Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So one question on the guidance up $0.10 but you're not raising the synergies.
So I'm wondering where it's coming from.
Is it coming from sales? Although the sales up 2.4% seem to be in line with your guidance.
So just wondering where that is coming from.
Yes it's Mike.
Typically we wouldn't adjust our annual outlook this early in the year and I think we said it in our remarks.
I think where it's coming from is we've learned a little bit more about the businesses.
The teams are working great together.
Both base businesses are off to a great start.
So that's a factor.
And then the other factor is we had a little bit of a beat in our first quarter and it gave us some momentum.
That's another one.
I think we still think the same on the synergies.
I think we're on track for the $160 million over the first 3 years and I think we still feel good about achieving our $45 million to $55 million on the synergies for the year.
Research Division</strong> So it's maybe cost savings or better margins in the underlying business or something along those lines? Yes and I think George talked about it.
I mean we've got out of the gates pretty strong here in terms of the business momentum from a top line and our teams are doing a great job on both sides of our business converting it to the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more quick ones.
You didn't talk about the comp outlook.
You were previously thinking flat to up low single digits.
Is that still the case even as comparisons get more difficult? And then one last one is would you say your total sales number was in line with where you thought they'd be given a 2.4% comp? So I'll talk about the first one and I'll let George talk about.
We really didn't go into all our assumptions.
Again it's too early in the year.
We finished one quarter.
The reason we give an annual outlook because there's always pluses and minuses that come out with the year.
Obviously as we see more of the year we get more comfortable with that.
But it's just too early.
And I think what we felt is the $0.10 we thought was a responsible and prudent thing to do just given the start we had to the year.
But we really didn't change any of the other assumptions.
Well and it's fair to say Mike as you said in your prepared remarks absolutely pleased with the 2.4% comp and we're pleased with the sales momentum as we start the second quarter.
So I don't -- it's a different way of asking was the 2.4% in our plan a total sales number and I think Mike answered that question that Mike we are pleased with sales momentum.
That's what we'd say.
And we've got ways to go to finish out the year and a lot going on in terms of the integration efforts.
We're just pleased.
In simple terms there's been no bump in the night at this point.
And the teams are doing a great job on the base business which I'm encouraged by and they're achieving their integration time line.
And I think for us to kind of change a myriad of things at this point so early in the year would be -- it wouldn't be genuine to you guys and it wouldn't be consistent with how we're running the business today.
But...
Research Division</strong> Right.
No understood.
What -- well I'll tell you what I was really getting at in that question was at least relative to consensus estimates the comp was better the total sales number was a little bit lighter.
It's tough for us to model putting these 2 businesses together.
So that's what I attribute that to.
But I was wondering if there was something else that maybe didn't perform as well as you expected.
No.
I think from our standpoint I can't -- I don't run all the other models.
I just run our plan model and we exceeded expectations on both our comp and on the total sales.
Thank you.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I will turn the call back to management for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating on our first quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5097.
Reporters please call Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Director of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to exclude impacts of cost that were incurred in fiscal 2014 in connection with the integration of General Parts International and BWP Distributors.
Please refer to our earnings release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
For planning purposes our third quarter 2014 earnings release is scheduled for November 6 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday November 6 2014.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by thanking all of our team members for their continuing commitment to better serve our customers which resulted in a very good Q2 performance.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you in our business operations; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financials.
We are pleased with the operating results from our second quarter as we continue to build on our momentum from our first quarter performance.
Overall we are on track in terms of the base business objective integration milestones and our financial performance.
Our team members remain focused on our 3 key outcomes and continue to drive improvements into the business.
These base business improvements along with our ongoing benefits from favorable winter weather enabled another strong quarter.
Our total sales grew 51.5% in the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts and our comparable store sales increase of 2.6% in the quarter.
Our second quarter comparable cash earnings per share of $2.08 was an increase of 30% versus our second quarter last year driven by both the acquisition of General Parts and the improving base business result.
Despite the relatively cooler start to the summer season we delivered strong comparable store sales gain in our commercial business while our DIY business was essentially flat driven by lower sales and seasonal categories versus our first quarter.
The sequential acceleration in our commercial business was led by our Northeast Great Lakes and mid-South regions.
We experienced increases in both traffic and ticket led by strong sales gains and right control climate control and the breaks category.
Further our momentum continued with national accounts which delivered double digit growth within the quarter.
Overall our comp trends were relatively stable throughout the quarter with some moderation experienced towards the end of the quarter.
Consumer confidence continues to trend slowly in a right direction.
The combination of relatively stable fuel prices and improving employment condition raise the ground work for optimism with the consumer.
However we are still guarded in our view of the consumer given spending constraints in the lower and middle income customers.
During the quarter both our gross profit rate and comparable SG&amp;A rate declined.
Gross profit rate declined 505 basis points to 45.2%.
The SG&amp;A rate improved on a comparable basis 358 basis points to 34%.
Again this was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts and was in line with our expectation.
Mike will be discussing the financials in more detail shortly.
We are encouraged with the progress of our key priorities.
Looking at our base business our results built on a momentum coming out of the first quarter our commercial sales improvements drove our growth.
The business remains on track with our profitability goals including our focus on expense control including solid progress on our cost of our initiatives.
Our customer service focus remains top of mind.
Our DIY and commercial mystery shops are providing key insights to improve the quality and consistency of our service.
The outcome is building deeper relationships with our customer through improving our execution and customer experience.
Turning to our integration we remain on track against our plan.
We are now moving from the planning into the execution phases.
The cross-sourcing initiative continues to deliver positive result as we leverage our leading inventory availability.
We continued our expansion of our WORLDPAC access with another 600 Advance stores in the quarter.
We also announced the consolidation of 100 CARQUEST stores into Advance stores beginning in August and completing by the end of 2014.
These consolidations will allow the combined store to have increased inventory coverage and team member support to serve our customers better.
We will be in a stronger position to growth our combined business volume in that consolidated store.
The commitment to enhance capabilities and simplify the support structure included announcing the closure of our Minneapolis office as we rationalized our corporate centers down to two.
Roanoke Virginia our existing support center and Raleigh North Carolina which is the former CARQUEST headquarter.
The relocation of the Minnesota office will transition over the next 12 months and we are pleased that all of our senior leaders have chosen to relocate with their families and continued to be a part of the Advance team.
Additionally we completed plans for Advance stores to enter the Dallas market beginning in Q3.
The Advance branded stores in this market will utilize the CARQUEST distribution center that already has daily delivering capabilities.
This is an example of our new combined capabilities that will allow us to accelerate our based business as we grow our presence and established a base store in our Dallas market.
Importantly as a result of all the hard work of our integration teams in the quarter I am pleased to see say we remain on track to achieve our 2014 synergy and integration cost commitments.
Overall we are satisfied with our outcome in the second quarter and first half of the year as a combined company.
I continue to be encouraged by progress we are making with our operational execution foundationally we’re getting better and are focused on continuous improvement and delivering consistency quarter-to-quarter I’m very proud of the entire team for delivering a solid first half of the year and remaining focused on the based business outcomes.
Our integration process today continues to be on planned and is early proved point demonstrating we have strong starting point organizationally underpinned the diversity of experienced team and the outstanding leaders coming together to successfully integrate this company.
Our growth and profitability is on track.
Our second quarter comparable results generated a 30% comparable cash EPS growth another step in the right direction.
Looking ahead despite the moderate start to the summer reason we remain positive about the back half of the year and continue to be encouraged by the momentum and sustained execution of our team.
I would like close once again by thanking all of our team members for their tremendous hard work and a good start to the first half of the year.
I will now turn the call over to George Sherman.
George? Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I too would like to thank all of our team members for their contributions to customer service in the quarter and doing all the right things to show our customers that we put them first.
At the heart of executional excellence is customer service and our team members drove our success this quarter to their commitment to the customer.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide a view on our second quarter business performance followed by a business update including our key priorities within the quarter.
Looking at sales we're pleased with our performance in the second quarter as the team delivered a comp store sales outcome of 2.6% a sequential acceleration of 310 basis points on a 2-year basis.
Our positive sales performance was once again attributable to solid execution by our field merchant and supply chain teams combined with a continued momentum from customer demand that carried over from the first quarter.
Overall we are satisfied with our sales performance in the second quarter and we’re progressing against our goal of continuous improvement and more consistent comp sales outcomes.
We are certainly moving in the right direction.
As a result of the acquisition our newly combined commercial mix now stands at 57% with our Commercial Business continuing to show consistent growth.
We generated solid comp acceleration in our Commercial Business with the Northeast market leading the way followed by our Great Lakes and Mid-South Markets with our commercial business benefiting overall from transaction and ticket growth in the quarter.
Our B2B business continues to perform very well with approximately 40% growth in the second quarter versus the previous year.
Additionally I would like to call out the early yet strong progress we’re marking with our CTI program.
We launched CTI with Advance in late April and to date already have approximately 700 shops signed up.
To put this in the prospective Advance trained approximately 500 shops all last year.
CARQUEST Technical Institute will continue to be a differentiator for us and help our customer grow their business.
Looking at our DIY business as referenced earlier our DIY performance was essentially flat.
We saw slightly lower demand this quarter in category such as batteries and antifreeze versus our first quarter when the winter demand for those categories was at its peak.
Offsetting the lower demand was a sequential acceleration in our dollars per transaction from our first quarter and consistent strong growth from our B2C channel.
As I previously mentioned and we will continue to stress we’re focused on 3 outcomes sales great customer service and profitability.
I touched earlier about our focus to consistently drive a better sales comp.
I can tell you that we now have a very healthy intolerance for poor sales day.
We are building the expectation of winning and embedding the good behaviors of urgency and accountability that underpin consistent sales outcome.
We are relentlessly focused on maintaining our team member training.
It’s about building our muscle at the counter and measuring ourselves at how well can engage with our customers.
We’ve been able to talk to our customers about their projects; can understand what they are looking for.
It’s about building a competency and confidence in our team members in the customer respectively.
We are clearly beginning to see the benefits of our training investments as they begin to drive outcomes validated by our customer feedback.
Our move to a more fuel-centric organization has put more control in the hands of our stores giving more responsibility to our leaders that are closest to the customer.
We’ve previously mentioned relying upon our local leadership to make decision such as labor decisions.
We are always seeing a benefit of that to improvements in our overall cost of an hour.
We’re also engaging our few leadership and decisions related to our real estate planning and help source strategies driving more ownership locally and in turn our team continues to be more engaged in outcome focus.
Turning to our integration I'll build on Darren’s comment and share a few additional insights from an operational perspective.
As mentioned our integration efforts are underway and we’re processing as expected.
We’ve had some very good early wins and I think it’s a very comparable list would be our retention outcomes.
We are pleased with our talent of retention at our stores the sale teams in the field and key leadership positions.
And the spirit of retention the same thing has been through with our independent customers as we continue to focus on their business outcomes and helping them continue to grow their business profitably.
Overall we are very pleased for the retention of our independent customers.
Our second source initiative continues to show our team some proof points of what this partnership can be.
Where we have locations in similar geographies Advance and CARQUEST stores can source from each other.
We also now have a total of 800 Advance in AI stores cross-sourcing with WORLDPAC.
We continue to build local scale and drive efficiencies within our network but more importantly being able to say yes more often to our customers.
The integration of our merchandizing teams is in progress as we make our way towards centralizing our merchandizing capability and rally.
Once complete we will have our merchandizing organizational center of excellence in the team that we will be more efficient and effective.
In the midst of this change I'd like to say how proud I am of our team that continues to execute day and day out and deliver the best business outcomes and ensure our stores are not missing a beat.
Lastly I’d just like to say how excited we are to have entered the Dallas market just six months integration by capitalizing on a CARQUEST distribution center store systems POS systems and processes in many cases as we open our Advance footprint.
And enter new high potential DMAs using our combined enterprise capabilities and assets.
Moving on I want to update you on our supply chain initiatives.
We’ve been methodically progressing against our supply chain objectives.
We continue to progress our daily delivery capability for approximately 550 Advance stores now receiving daily delivery from our Remington Lakeland and Kutztown distribution centers with a majority of CARQUEST store also receiving daily delivery of the 34 CARQUEST TCs.
Second we continue to drive improvements of end market availability to our hub store strategy.
Due in a quarter we added 5 hub stores to a combination of new stores and upgrades of existing stores including the opening of our first Canadian hub in Ontario.
At the end of quarter our hub store count was 410 an overall increase of 56 from the second quarter last year.
Third as we look at inventory our inventory growth was up over 60% year-over-year in the second quarter from early due to the General Parts acquisition.
Inventory upgrades increase of new stores in hub stores.
Inventory levels were slightly higher versus our first quarter as a result of new stores added during the quarter.
We continue to be focused on our goal of having superior availability the deepest assortment and investment in our strategy to get the parts closes the customer.
Looking at our new store growth during the quarter we open 28 new Advance AI and CARQUEST stores and close 15 stores including plan consolidations of 11 BWP stores bringing the total company operator to store account to 5 289.
We also added one WORLDPAC branch in the quarter bringing our total branch count to 106.
We are progressing as expected and continue to pace on these new openings to be in line with our guidance of between a 120 and 140 new store this fiscal year.
As I close our remarks today I’d like to share how proud I am of the entire team.
The base business improvement are contributing to our outcomes and laying the groundwork for an operating model that strives for and delivers consistent outcomes.
Our integration program is progressing nicely we are fully integrated our leadership teams and we could not have asked for a better cultural consistencies between this things coming together.
While we are satisfied with the execution momentum in our recent performance in the third two quarter we are by no means content.
Looking to the back half of the year as we remain positive in our outlook and we will continue to stay focus on our plan showing patience when required and accelerating when we see opportunities to serve our customer better than anyone else.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customer in the quarter and helping our company again deliver strong financial performance in our second quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning.
One provide some financial highlights from our second quarter of 2014.
Two put our second quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial priorities that we use to measure our performance.
And three provide some insights on the remainder of 2014.
Before I begin my remarks about the quarter I would like to remind everyone and unless other specified Advance will presents its financials and supporting commentary on a consolidated enterprise basis and I will discuss results on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of one-time integration expenses related to the acquisition of both General Parts and BWP along with any amounts related to the amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of General Parts.
As mentioned on our first quarter call we begin the work of integrating the Company and initiating the purchase accounting assessment including the preliminary valuation of the balance sheet and conformity of the accounting policy.
In the first quarter we referred to a conformity reclassification of approximately 70 basis points of supply chain cost from SG&amp;A to gross profit and provided a preliminary estimate of the impact to the remaining quarters to be approximately the same 70 basis points.
As we progressed through our assessment we determined the impact of the supply chain re-class to be closer to approximately 85 basis points.
This updated assessment of approximately 85 basis points applies to both the second quarter and to the remaining quarters of 2014.
Moving onto our second quarter operating results we are pleased to report a second quarter comparable cash EPS of $2.08 a 30% increase from our second quarter of 2013.
The second quarter results reflect a continuation of the sales momentum from our first quarter included in our comparable cash EPS result in the quarter with $0.09 in synergy realization.
On a GAAP basis our second quarter EPS was $1.89 which included $0.08 of intangible asset amortization associated with the acquisition of General Parts $0.08 of one-time integration expenses and cost to achieve synergies related to the integration of General Parts and $0.02 in onetime costs associated with the integration of BWP.
Turning to sales our second quarter net sales increased 51.5% to $2.35 billion compared to our second quarter of 2013.
This sales growth was principally driven by the acquisition of General Parts our comparable same-store sales increase of 2.6% and the addition of new stores.
For comparison purposes only net sales for General Parts in our second quarter after adjusting for selling days and holidays this year versus last year increased approximately 3.8% to $737.1 million based on 82 days this year versus 90 days last year.
Our positive same-stores sales were driven by our commercial growth and strong execution from our field and supply chain teams.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 49.2% to $5.3 billion.
Turning to gross profit our gross profit dollars in the second quarter increased 36.3% to $1.06 billion from $779 million in our second quarter of 2013.
Our gross profit rate of 45.2% was down 505 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts resulting in a higher mix of commercial sales that has a lower gross profit rate.
Including in our gross profit results this quarter is the approximate 85 basis points conformity impact that I mentioned earlier which was partially offset by 35 basis points of synergy savings in the quarter.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate decreased 472 basis points to 45.4% versus 50.1% over the same period of last year as a result of the General Parts acquisitions.
Turning to SG&amp;A our comparable SG&amp;A rate was 34% in the quarter which was done 358 basis points compared to our second quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was a result of the acquired General Parts business having a lower SG&amp;A cost.
SG&amp;A also reflects the approximate 85 basis points of conformity impact mentioned earlier and cost leverage from our 2.6% comp stores sales increased partially offset by higher incentive compensation due to our better sales performance.
Year-to-date our comparable SG&amp;A rate decrease 373 basis points to 35.1% versus 38.9% over the same period last year again principally due to the General Parts acquisition.
All in our second quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 34% to $262.7 million and our operating income rate decreased to 146 basis points over the same period last year to 11.2% primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts.
Year-to-date the Company’s comparable operating income rate was 10.3% versus 11.3% during the same period last year.
Operating cash flow through the second quarter was $320.6 million versus $310.1 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow through the second quarter improved to $214.3 million versus $198.2 million in the prior year.
Our AP ratio for the quarter was 77.6% versus 85.1% last year.
This decline was expected due to the acquisition of General Parts and is previously shared we see continued opportunities to improve our AP ratio as a combined company.
At the end of the second quarter we had roughly $1.87 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.9 times and was in line with our expectations.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $200 million of debt and remained focus on our commitment to quickly pay down debt with our free cash flow to get back below the 2.5 times leverage ratio and maintain our investment grade ratings.
We continue to measure the financial performance of our business and prioritize our investments to achieve growth profit and value creation.
Our growth engine continues to be our commercial business which delivered solid growth in the second quarter helping us deliver our third consecutive quarter of positive comps.
As George mentioned we are investing in several key areas to improve our service and business performance to maintain our growth momentum.
Turning to profit we are pleased with our 34% comparable operating income dollar growth versus the previous year and the 11.2% comparable operating income rate that we achieved in our second quarter.
We see continued opportunities to improve our profitability as measured by operating income dollar growth through consistent sales growth leveraging our size and scale and improving our cost efficiency.
We also remain on track to achieve our year one cost synergies of $45 million to $55 million on our way to achieving the total expected cost synergies of a $160 million over the next three years.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of General Parts provides us a compelling opportunity to drive shareholders returns through incremental earnings and strong cash flows.
We saw this in our second quarter with a 30% increase in our comparable cash EPS.
We continue to be focused on improving our free cash flow through our disciplined capital deployment consistent operating results and working capital management primarily in the areas of inventory management and AP ratio.
We are pleased with the progress we made in these areas in the quarter.
Our focus on free cash flow is enabling us to pay down our debt to get back to our previously stated leveraging ceiling of 2.5 times by the end of 2015.
Once our debt is paid down we will continue to optimize our capital structure to maximize shareholder value.
Turning to the balance of the year we are pleased with our outcomes during the first half of 2014 and the momentum we have built heading into the back half of the year.
I would like now to share two updates to our 2014 full year outlook.
First based on the sales comp performance in the first half of the year we expect our full year comp store sales to be in the low single digit.
Also as we shared in our press release we have raised our full year annual consolidated comparable cash EPS outlook to now be in the range of $7.50 to $7.60.
Despite the moderate start to the summer selling season we are building momentum as a combined company and maintain a positive outlook for the back half of the year given our ongoing base business improvements integration progress and steady industry fundamentals.
Turning to phasing in the back half of 2014 we continue to be on pace to deliver against our first year cost synergy expectations however we expect the balance of our cost synergies this year to be weighted more towards the fourth quarter.
In closing we are satisfied with our performance in the quarter in the first half of the year.
Our focus is still squarely set on two key priorities of delivering on our base business outcomes and successfully integrating General Parts.
We continue to be pleased with the improvements our teams continue to make each quarter with our execution in the spirit of driving consistent sales services and profit outcomes.
The integration is progressing as expected with the team delivering the early quick wins and plan synergy benefits.
I want to once again thank our over 74 000 talented team members for what they do each and every day to serve our customers inspire our team and grow our great company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question today is from Gary Balter with Credit Suisse.
Rather than ask a question that builds on the good stuff going on I'll ask the tough question.
What's not working? You have a whole game plan and you have an awful lot going on in terms of WORLDPAC AI integration testing Dallas.
It's all the cost savings that Mike talked about.
What are the areas that you're finding are a little bit more challenging and how are you dealing with those?  Hi Gary this is Darren.
So I would say couple of things what’s keeping me awake at night right now is that we just haven’t had a bump in the night that’s to be honest I would say the places that are most complex for us and predicting these type of acquisition is systems.
Lining up the systems are going to be complicated.
We have had some quick wins on systems but as I look out I think that’s an area that most companies as ourselves underestimated some of the complexity that’s not going to keep us from achieving our synergy or achieving our targets but I see that as an area where we are going to have to double down more efforts as a company.
I would say the second one is we said this is a script.
The planning process even building out the process steps I think as a company we are pretty good at that now moving into the execution part of the integration work.
And that is the things we talked about the 100 store conversions the supply chain work.
We are moving essentially we are touching three corporate offices that’s a lot of moving part to be honest and so it is going to take our entire team even doubling down that more in terms of our focus with the team members to keep up powering through this work.
That’s the only way can do this just power through it.
So as we’re into the back half of this year next year.
There are just going to be little ups and downs with the execution type of work but today we haven’t had a bump in the night what we can see the complexity is really aligned in this system in terms of somewhat we originally planned and probably more importantly the work right now is entering execution and that just by its nature tends to be more up and down.
I had a follow-up -- or not a last follow-up.
But you've mentioned a few times the slowdown in July the more recent period of time.
Anything other than what you're seeing seasonally that would concern you in terms of either pricing or maybe end roads that are happening in Florida from O'Reilly? Or do you think it's very much seasonal? Yes Gary it’s Charles.
I mean primarily we’re seeing it from a seasonal perspective.
We had a very strong Q1 in our battery business and we’re seeing some slowing there.
When you wake up in Raleigh at 58 degrees when it’s only 90 AC business.
So some of the seasonal businesses are impacting it.
But we aren’t doing anything from a pricing perspective that would drive any concern from in terms of how that’s impacting the trend on the business.
And we got good core continuing growth on the car business and our break business and we continue to see great strength going in Q3.
Gary it’s George I would add to that.
We saw strong commercial comp performance in our commercial business throughout the entirety of the quarter.
We saw some slowing toward the end in the heat-related DIY categories that you would expect so that underlying strength in commercial gives us confidence for the remainder of the year.
Thanks.
I wanted to get into the synergies a little bit just to understand how you're on path.
It seems if I back out the $0.09 it's about $10 million or $11 million of synergies at the EBIT level.
Mike is what you were suggesting that we're still going to get to the $50 million-ish but maybe the third-quarter looks like the second-quarter and then we have a big step up in the fourth-quarter? Yes Hi Greg.
Yes that’s exactly right.
I mean we delivered little over a $11 million in synergies in the second quarter about $8 million in the first quarter and we’re pleased with that.
We are right on top.
I think you saw we took our outlook up.
I think as we gained more confidences there and as George said we feel more confident and coming end at the high end of the synergies that said the phasing is going to be more weighted towards the fourth quarter.
So I would think kind of about one-third two-thirds for the balance of the year.
The remaining synergies will kind of fall third quarter fourth quarter in that one-third two-third.
Got it.
And then a follow-up.
I think Darren in your comments you talked about the 100 CARQUEST consolidations into Advance stores.
And that they could be in a strong position to grow the actual combined sales of the stores when you consolidate.
Is that just saying that the sales loss from a closure are less than you expected? Or you actually think that when you put them together you end up with a bigger pie and that's not just 80% or 90% that you keep? Greg it’s George.
We think it is close due to the ladder first of all we’re confident in our ability to retain sales by consolidating the stores we believe they were building us stronger commercial capability store by stores that’s going to enable us got and gain more sales.
So on the commercial side do you have any evidence of a dozen stores where this has actually worked and you end up with more commercial sales? Well we do Gary in terms of BWP so that’s what we talk about before.
We got try before we buy and I’d say what you have to think about it is that difference for DIY than this commercial.
So when we consolidate something those stores had some DIY business a lot of that DIY business doesn’t necessarily transfer on the street.
The commercial business as a twofold impact George is right what we’re seeing as we’re holding onto the team member that’s important.
There is better inventory availability in the consolidated store and what happens is that the existing store base ends up then because you can provide a better service level.
You just have better coverage and so that’s what we’re seeing.
What we saw I would say in the BWP process as we got better at perfecting it what we’re seeing in George you tell me -- I think we’re just a few stores into the 100 at this point.
Yes we’re two stores in.
We converted one at the end of July and one yesterday.
We are just getting started.
My question relates primarily to revenue.
You talked about the pro-business gaining momentum despite a lack of weather tailwinds.
Can you talk about the degree to which that relates to revenue synergies associated with the transaction? And related to that you talked about the expansion of WORLDPAC access and being able to bring some of that product to your Advance customers.
Any quantification or qualitative or quantitative rundown of how that has actually progressed? Yes Matt it’s George.
We certainly think it help and it certainly allowed us to leverage some market strength.
So it really is getting the -- yes as you know with the commercial customer it doesn’t matter if it’s a 2005 F150 or 1970 Chevelle we have got to have the part and get to yes quickly on that question when it’s asked.
So it helped us now it is not in our comp and maybe Mike will build on this a bit both intercompany cross-store sales are back out of our comp and that reflected in here but it certainly is building a better capability for us a better commercial capacity for us and we think a very good parts authority at the local level.
Maybe building on that a couple of other things Matt is that we are very early but there are hundreds not thousands at this point in terms of advanced stores that have sold TECH-NET relationships and those TECH-NET relationships as we talked about one of the benefits from car class is that where Advance lacked is that a some of the traditional programs that the traditional players had TECH-NET being one of them.
And so we are starting to see initial traction in terms of TECH-NET we are seeing traction in terms of the CTI the CARQUEST Technical Institute Investments.
What we are also seeing is that we ended up we have just a lot of terrific national accounts including CarMax we’re able to provide better coverage so CARQUEST couldn’t reach certain national accounts because they simply didn’t have the store and we do that’s one of the benefits we are seeing in terms of better coverage in the commercial space.
Probably the most fundamental thing that we are seeing is at a local level the CARQUEST team the Advance teams and I would say that’s expecting my expectations are working together nearly seamlessly.
It’s really been terrific and pleasant surprise culturally and when we are working together the customer benefits.
Thank you.
Darren there are a lot of terrific things that took place in the second-quarter.
But one trend that I'm not real excited about is the 60% increase in inventory only generated a 36% increase in gross profit dollars.
So I was curious as to where you are in your product line reviews and eliminating redundant SKUs between the CARQUEST and Advance organizations.
And how you think that inventory growth may change during the balance of the year.
Dan I think I appreciate you are asking a tough question.
I would say the way we have guided the teams early on is that we have used an approach that says let’s get it integrate it first and optimize it second.
The integration the way we prioritize that is make sure that customer service levels do not experience any degradation that they only get better.
And so a choice that we have to make in the inventory side of it is that we could go into optimization and as I said earlier part of that will require systems work.
And so we made a deliberate decision early on in terms of hubs super hubs and level of investment plus an inventory coming on for Hartford that in all cases early on in this acquisition we want customers.
The independent customers are core customers who experienced the benefit of the service level recognizing that the good news about this inventory it’s not fashion it doesn’t go out of style.
And that the teams as they come together in Raleigh and work as one team we will have a runway to maximize what I will call the balance between service level and getting the inventory dollars out.
There is no doubt that there is a big value pool in terms of absolute inventory for us but in the early days we don’t want that to come at the expense of customer service.
Charles anything you would add?  As we look at the work that we are doing inside the AAP network to Darren’s point we are waiting for some systems integration across both brands.
We see moderation in the AAP inventory as we move through the balance of this year and that is work of the team to continue to drive out.
We finished the product integration planning work and now we are going into that phase and the beginning of consolidations we are looking at the rationalization of inventory between both brands and as we start to going to our DC conversion strategy into next year we will start to see where we drive simplification for the assortment that will have impact on the overall inventory.
But I want to reiterate that we won’t do that at compromising service levels.
As we grow in the commercial space the expectation of our commercial customer is very high around superior availability and that teams have been in-charge and doing a good job in driving that superior availability protection into the market as well as looking at where we have unproductive inventory that we can better utilize either out of the network in partnership with our vendors or elsewhere through the networking consolidation.
Mike do you want to add anything?  Dan I wanted to connect two things first of all we expect the inventory growth to moderate as we get throughout the year.
We are also focused on reducing our owned inventory.
I think that’s important to drive our cash flow and then I wanted to connect your point around the gross profit rate.
We are actually right on plan with respect to our gross profit rate and maybe let me remind you at the beginning of the year we said took 2013 we blended the companies together and said that the gross profit rate for 2013 would be somewhere in the 45.5% to 46% gross profit rate and that didn’t include synergy.
But you do the math on a year-to-date basis we’re tracking at 45.4% a back out about 30 basis point synergies that take about 45.1.
And then the add back to supply chain re-class and we’re close to 46 we’re almost right at -- we’re right in the range we say that the gross it would be modestly up to share.
So we’re tracking right at where we said we would be.
Great.
Well that's certainly a lengthy question or answer to my question.
Just as a real quick follow-up when you're talking about closing and consolidating a CARQUEST store into Advance and that potentially the combined commercial revenues could be more than 100% from where they were running prior due to better parts availability.
What does the inventory growth look like in that combined CARQUEST Advance location? It’s going to vary based on markets some of market potential.
And if you look at our Southern markets and as we looked at inventory we see gaps where actually have inventory.
There are other markets where the inventory actually will be flat and so on average when I look at the first grouping of stores that we’re doing today the inventories is just moderately up and that’s based on the geography whether stores are the benefit those stores can take by adding superior availability into those stores.
Thanks good morning.
Just one follow-up on inventory and then my main question.
Would you say that Advance or CARQUEST either of the companies has a superior ability to forecast either the fleet or the breakage within a market? And then that will help you improve just the inventory allotment per store in general.
Simeon this is Darren.
So in forecasting the inventory around this really top before we have the custom mix tool it’s not rocket science in terms of vehicles and operational around the store.
And we’ve been using that for years now I think that tool further help us in the CARQUEST forecasted and inventory I think where we an advantage beyond this is and CARQUEST had this advantages that what WORLDPAC allows us to do WORLDPAC is selling a lot of more rate model coverage vehicles and so they are getting a better sense early on in the cycle principally around the import vehicles which we’ve said I have really taken an over in terms of the growth and some of the car pack the last several years.
And that will better in form our overall mix of inventory principally in the import space and principally in late model coverage.
And we tend to think is that is a benefit that is still ahead of us.
Today we respond to that benefit by income WORLDPAC and the future which you could see and what we could see in CARQUEST is that ideally what you’re doing is a portion of that product putting it in your own DC.
That's a much more profitable transaction when you got to just deliver it out of your own network.
Okay.
And then my main question is on the industry and the tone of business.
A couple of suppliers talked about weather-related replacement activity and that there are still pockets of pent-up demand.
And you mentioned end of the month was a little soft.
So from your vantage points and I guess this is the age-old question is do we root for hot weather now the rest of this season? And do we see that pent-up demand? Or now do we roll back into the winter and hope for extreme cold? How much of this is still to come and does this roll forward to next year at this point? Simeon weather always evens out.
That’s what I would say.
What we root for internally we don’t spend our time looking around the weather a few of you spend their time think that the team has to get to get out there and take market share what you have to do is every customer of you you got to serve them better than anybody else what we do internally as we train we team.
We have put an enormous amount of training matter of fact AAIA will recognize us as the best training group this year.
And that’s what we committed to the weather is going to up and down.
Bad thing will even out that what showed up in our guidance at the beginning of the year when we set low single comps.
We anticipated weather would help us.
We anticipated that usually there is the other side of it and so I think we’ve build the set of responsible plans that reflect to that.
And to our team we want to just stay focus on going out there and getting share just serving customer better than anybody else.
Hello.
Quick clarification -- hopefully quick -- and then a question.
Your comments on the GPI sales growth in the quarter up 3.8%; that's on a per day sales basis and that’s kind of true apple-to-apples run rate? Yes.
That’s exactly right.
Got it thank you.
And then you talked about some of the experiences that you had with the BWP consolidations.
And let's call it the north of 100% kind of retention because of the additional market share.
Given your fixed cost infrastructure can you give us an idea of the impact that has on the profitability of that store? Hey Scott this is Darren.
So a couple of things.
Think about it in overall store we’re able to better leverage probably about two thirds of the payroll in that store because it’s essentially what we’re transferring is a combination of the few counter people and we’re transferring a few drivers down to that store so it has a very nice flow through in terms of the fixed cost and we get to leave the fix cost of the close location behind.
I want to make just make this point quickly as you would say that I wouldn’t want people running off and writing down 100 plus percent on every store because in some of those consolidation the other factor you have to take in as that if they’re a mile away we’re in real good shape.
If they’re multiple miles away we do lose a higher percentage of that business because we’re just further from the shops.
So what we’re seeing is we’re very pleased with the transfer that we’re seeing we’re seeing places that we’re getting plus 100% but we’re also seeing places that are coming in underneath.
Principally there is distance involved too.
And Scot I think our focus.
We always want to improve our profitability.
We don’t think about it.
We’re not going to start reporting out on stores but the big value there is when we consolidate we get a better pool of inventory we can improve our service levels.
We get better delivery more trucks serving the customers.
So we really focused on the top line two of those consolidations.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
I wanted to connect some of the points you made on the gross margin side.
You mentioned that the gross margin was down due primarily to the inclusion of General Parts.
And then it sounds like it was also due to the reclassification.
Was there anything else in there that caused the gross margin pressure that you would highlight? No there were three big drivers.
They were two primarily that took down and one that actually helped it.
The two that took it down of the two you mentioned and one that helped they’re actually our synergies so primarily driven by our purchasing synergies.
But those are with the three big drivers.
Okay.
And then on the performance of the GPI businesses it seems like you're talking a lot about the benefit that the legacy Advance stores are seeing as a result of the integration.
But it seems like the GPI businesses also accelerated a bit from the first to the second quarter.
Maybe you can discuss what's happening what benefits those segments are seeing from the combination as well.
Or is there something else going on there? I think they’re very much the same like in many cases.
Just as Advance is benefiting from the inventory position of CARQUEST so too as CARQUEST from Advance so on a market-by-market basis they are experiencing better inventory availability.
I also think just at a culture level the team is pretty fired up about integration.
Gary mentioned this when you think about integration and he gave the example of systems being one of those things that’s kind of you hit a period where it's a longer drawn out project you go through the one that probably gives us the most in terms of successful integration of this cultural overlay which has been fantastic.
So I think the teams are aggressive out there on the CARQUEST side but they too see better market availability.
And I think the other thing I would add to that is we were pleased with the CARQUEST growth in terms of our Canadian business was strong independent business strong wolf pack business was strong.
And I think the word we would use we’re seeing steady improvement and momentum.
My question revolves around the base business which we haven't spoken too much about on the Q&amp;A here.
Could you give us an update on some of the key metrics that you're tracking in terms of customer satisfaction scores training completed attachment sales rates et cetera? Yes sure Seth really all the above.
I think if you look at the DIY business and Gary really said this.
We can’t control weather but we can control what the interaction looks like between a customer and our team when they walk in the stores and that really he has focused around that heavy duty DIY and selling the entire project to them and that really was the impedance behind automotive systems training.
We are pleased with how that’s progressed.
It is a very comprehensive 18 module training program.
It takes some time.
It’s difficult.
It’s meant to be that way.
But we track completion rate on that one and we’re pleased with that’s moving along.
We also look at the individual interaction with the customer and whether or not we sold the entire project.
On the customer service side we look at a number of metrics one of which is likely to recommend and are very-very pleased with the outcome there that’s been strong and it has remained strong for a couple of quarters now.
And then we’re also beginning to have more of a focus around commercial customer feedback really talking to our best customers doing an anonymous survey and just kind of getting feedback on the core components of the great relationship and how we’re helping them to grow their business.
That’s very new for that’s off to a very nice start as well.
So those really I mean we’re going to be a field led customer centric organization and metrics like that are at the heart of that.
That's great.
It seems like you have some real momentum there.
As you think about your comp performance for the last couple quarters and the progress you're making with these initiatives internally how much of that comp lift that you've seen do you think has been driven by some of these initiatives relative to the benefits you see from weather et cetera? Yes I mean Scott I think a large part of it the weather is out there and it works both ways and we know that.
What we like about the sequential comp improvement is that we see our core commercial business getting stronger and stronger along the way and we think we control that.
We think that’s execution.
We think that’s the evolution of the commercial value prop.
We think it’s better in-field execution by our teams and in fact we think it’s better confidence among our team.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy.
And thanks to our audience for participating in our second quarter earnings conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me at 952-715-5097.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at 540-561-8452.
That concludes our call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Vice President of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to exclude impacts of costs that were incurred in fiscal 2014 in connection with the integration of General Parts International and B.W.P.
Distributors.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
For planning purposes our fourth quarter 2014 earnings release is scheduled for February 12 2015 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday February 12 2015.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for 1 year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
I'd like to start off by thanking all of our team members for their hard work and commitment to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you on our business operations; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financial performance.
Our third quarter objectives remained unchanged as we continued to focus on the consistency of our base business and successfully integrating General Parts.
Overall we are satisfied with our progress in the quarter and continue to be on track in terms of the base business objectives the integration milestones and our financial performance.
Our team members remained focused on our 3 outcomes: sales service and profit and continued to drive improvement into the business.
Our total sales grew 50.6% in the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts new store openings and our comparable stores sales increase of 1.5% in the quarter.
Our third quarter comparable cash earnings per share of $1.89 increased 27.7% versus our third quarter last year driven principally again by the acquisition of General Parts as well as our base business performance.
Despite an overall cooler summer season we were very pleased to have delivered solid comparable store gains in commercial with our DIY business experiencing some unevenness in sales trends driven by lower volume of seasonal categories.
The consistent strength of our Commercial Business was seen throughout our North American operations including Advance Auto Parts CARQUEST and the WORLDPAC locations.
This is encouraging considering our teams have come together in less than a year to collectively drive these solid outcomes and continue to fuel our growth through our Commercial Business.
Further we continued our momentum with our national account growth as our teams once again delivered double-digit growth within the quarter.
Looking at our comp trends our Commercial Business showed consistent and steady strength throughout the quarter with notable increases in both traffic and ticket led by our strong sales increases in ride control with particular strength in the brake category as well.
Our DIY business experienced some mid-summer softness as we referenced in our second quarter conference call and remained choppy but it did improve throughout the quarter.
From a macro perspective our industry continues to show stability as average age of vehicles continues to hold along with increases in miles driven supported by favorable fuel prices.
The uptick in new car sales is also a positive overall.
Given steady scrappage rates it should eventually put more cars into the system and result in a net gain for our industry.
Consumer confidence continues to move in the right direction albeit not benefiting all customer demographics equally.
Macro indicators suggest an improving consumer confidence carrying into next year.
But I would remind you the fourth quarter tends to be our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs do typically influence our business.
During the quarter both our gross profit rate and our comparable SG&amp;A rate declined.
Gross profit rate declined 501 basis points to 45.2% and SG&amp;A improved on a comparable basis 367 basis points to 34.8%.
This was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts and our strong Commercial comp sales growth.
Overall both were in line with our expectations.
Mike will be discussing the financials in more detail in a moment.
Turning to our integration.
As I mentioned in the past we look at the integration story as having 3 distinct phases.
Early in the year we stabilized the business by first focusing on our customers and our team members by getting the teams aligned.
We moved to the next phase where we began negotiation with our vendor partners while concurrently delivering quick wins to satisfy our customers by opening up availability through cross-sourcing initiatives.
We are pleased with the cross-sourcing capability and have taken further steps within the quarter by expanding WORLDPAC access into roughly 3 000 Advance stores and progressing the launch of our TechNet and our CTI programs into Advance.
Additionally our initial CARQUEST store consolidations are on track.
The fourth quarter starts an exciting but intense phase of the integration work.
Having now completed the vendor negotiations we are very pleased with our product lineup.
Our goal is to provide our customers with the parts that offer premium quality proven reliability and world-class coverage.
Beginning in early November and throughout 2015 we will undertake the work of initiating the product changeovers in our stores which will include the introduction of new products and new brands for our go-forward lineup across the organization.
Alongside the product conversions we have made changes to our field structure creating an integrated field organization which will bring our Advance and CARQUEST U.S.
operations together under one combined team.
This integration of the organization will be hard work but critical to our long-term success.
George will touch on this momentarily.
Looking ahead the work on multiyear integration activities related to our supply chain infrastructure and the work of harmonizing our IT systems between CARQUEST and Advance is progressing as planned and will continue throughout 2015.
We still have a long way to go with our integration work.
We are undertaking one of the largest acquisition integration programs in our industry.
We remain pleased with our steady progress and maintain high expectations from our teams but recognize that the progress at times may not be linear as we get deeper into some of the really complex work streams.
I would like to take a moment to convey just how proud we are of our team members for their progress that they have driven thus far.
They have worked tirelessly through the acquisition close and have come together seamlessly this year as one team to drive the successful integration outcomes thus far.
Finally as a result of all the great work by our integration teams in the quarter I'm pleased to say we remain on track to achieve our 2014 synergy targets.
Overall we are satisfied with our outcomes in the third quarter.
We continue to stay on course based on the goals we set out at the beginning of the year.
Our base business continues to be on track and the teams continue to take steps against our goals consistent with the execution superior availability and service leadership goals that we had.
The integration work is in its early stages but progressing as planned.
Financially we continue to be on track in our financial objectives as the team delivered a 27.7 comparable cash EPS growth in the quarter.
As we close out the fiscal year we expect to continue our progress and deliver against our stated full year objectives.
We remain confident in the strength of our Commercial Business and our ability to manage the consumer unevenness related to the DIY business.
Historically our fourth quarter is our most volatile quarter as consumers do make those choices with their discretionary spending.
But this year could also have a disproportionate impact as we anniversary the benefits of last year's winter weather.
That being said we still expect to see a good selling season ahead of us as our teams continue to focus on consistent delivery against our key outcomes of sales service and profit.
I'd like to close by once again thanking all of our team members for their tremendous hard work to deliver on our objectives and for always putting our customer first.
I will now turn the call over to George Sherman.
George? Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to thank all of our team members for their contributions to customer service in the quarter and doing all the right things to show our customers that we put them first.
At the heart of executional excellence is customer service and our team members drove our success this quarter through their commitment to the customer.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide a view on our third quarter business performance followed by a business update including key priorities within the quarter.
Looking at sales we are satisfied with our performance in the third quarter as the team delivered a comp store sales outcome of 1.5%.
Our positive sales performance was led by strong performance in our Commercial Business and good execution by our field merchant and supply chain teams.
Our solid comp sales performance in our Commercial Business was driven by our Northeast market leading the way followed by our Great Lakes and Midsouth markets and benefiting overall from both transactional and ticket growth in the quarter.
Our B2B business continues to perform very well and continues to grow.
We continue to make good progress with integration of our Advance and CARQUEST commercial service programs by adding CARQUEST Technical Institute and TechNet customers to the Advance value proposition while adding Motoshop customers to the CARQUEST tool belt.
The key with these programs is migrating and evolving the relationship with our commercial customer from one that is strictly transactional to one that is helping them grow their business and helping them be more successful a greater sense of partnership and long-term loyalty that is a two-way street.
This is another aspect of the integration that is immediately enhancing our base business.
Turning to our DIY business.
As referenced earlier our DIY performance was a little more uneven in the quarter.
We continued to see softer demand this quarter in seasonal categories partially offset by improvement in our average ticket.
Our DIY business is very important to us and we're making investments to further develop the depth of our value proposition.
We are keenly focused on the heavy DIY customer as our core customer opportunity.
We're aggressively accelerating our B2C capability which continues to grow at consistent double-digit rates and doubling down on the automotive systems training to deliver a greater experience to our core DIY customer.
Turning to our integration.
I'll share a few additional insights from an operational perspective.
This integration is still in the early innings and it's going to be a lot of hard work over an estimated 3-year period.
That said we expect to see visible proof points of progress along the way that positively impact our base business.
Our cross-sourcing initiative continues to grow and this expansion of inventory availability positions us to say "Yes we have the part." And in this business if you don't have the part you don't get to play.
We're pleased with the continued progress on that front.
Leveraging the combined capabilities and the resources of both companies is at the heart of the integration.
But make no mistake it is not an aspirational or distant goal.
It's real and it came to life in Dallas as we opened our first set of Advance stores last quarter.
These stores are performing very well and were launched with the combined resources of both companies: The CARQUEST DC the CARQUEST POS system and mixed field leadership team.
We've leveraged Advance's super hub strategy to drive greater availability in these stores and we will continue to leverage the combined resources and assets to drive more outcomes such as Dallas as we push forward with this integration.
As we look out over the hood towards next year we'll be hard at work deploying the product and brand integration that Darren spoke of earlier.
As we set our sights on being the best our commercial customers are going to expect us to have the best parts and the best brands.
Throughout much of next year our teams will be focused on driving these product changeovers and bringing our customers and team members the strongest product portfolio we've ever had.
Also as referenced we have solidified our combined organizational structure for next year both in the field and at the corporate level positioning us to operate as one unified company.
While the mobilization of the teams under the combined structure cannot be measured like our cost synergies it carries equally significant benefits of furthering the cultural and leadership synergies between the teams.
Lastly I'd like to echo Darren's comments about how proud we are of our team members the other reason why our integration has progressed to date as expected without any major surprises.
Our team is putting its energy into making sure we lock -- making sure that we look after our customers and continue to run a strong base business.
Moving on I'd like to update you on our supply chain initiatives.
We've been methodically progressing against our supply chain objectives.
The integration activities and our logistics optimization work continues to progress as expected.
The work here is largely long term in nature but as I mentioned earlier we have quickly leveraged the CARQUEST distribution centers to open new Advance stores in new markets.
And we will continue to balance the long-term supply chain foundational work with the opportunities to immediately add value to our base business -- and grow our base business.
Heading into our fourth quarter our operational focus will be squarely set on furthering our end market availability and driving daily delivery capability and concentrating on the launch of deliveries from our Hartford DC early next year to keep moving the Advance network along to the next level of benefits.
Second we continue to drive improvements of in-market availability through our hub store strategy.
During the quarter we added 5 hub stores through a combination of new stores and upgrades of existing stores.
At the end of the quarter our hub store count was 415 an overall increase of 45 from third quarter last year.
Third as we look at inventory our inventory growth was up roughly 60% year-over-year in the third quarter primarily due to the General Parts acquisition increased inventory assortments our increase in new stores and hub stores and additional inventory to support the upcoming Hartford DC opening.
We continue to be focused on our goal of having superior availability the deepest assortment and investment in our strategy to get the parts closest to the customer.
Looking at our new store growth during the quarter we opened 47 new Advance Autopart International and CARQUEST stores.
We consolidated 30 CARQUEST and BWP stores and closed 1 store bringing the total company-operated store count to 5 305.
We also added 3 WORLDPAC branches in the quarter bringing our total branch count to 109.
We are progressing as expected and continue to pace our new store openings to be in line with our guidance of between 120 and 140 new stores this fiscal year.
As I close out my remarks today I'd like to again share how proud I am of the entire team.
The integration work is difficult and the teams have come together to keep our integration on track and more importantly continue to deliver against our base business outcomes.
Overall we are satisfied with our business performance in the third quarter and remain on track against our expectations.
We are however by no means content.
We have far bigger ambitions for the business as we continue to take those necessary steps in the journey to becoming a continuous improvement company underpinned by a continuous improvement culture.
We head into our fourth quarter with a positive outlook and the team's focused on delivering on our outcomes we set at the start of the year and continuing to stay rooted in our principles of ownership customer focus and delivering results as rules of the road.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers in the quarter and helping our company again deliver strong financial performance in our third quarter.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights from our third quarter of 2014; two put our third quarter results into context with our expectations and key financial priorities that we use to measure our performance; and three provide some insights on the remainder of 2014 and how we are thinking about 2015.
Before I begin my remarks about the quarter I would like to remind everyone that unless otherwise specified Advance will present its financials and supporting commentary on a consolidated enterprise basis and will also discuss results on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of onetime integration expenses related to the acquisition of both General Parts and BWP along with any amounts related to the amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of General Parts.
Also to serve as a reminder and as mentioned on our previous earnings calls this year we refer to a conformity reclassification of supply chain costs from SG&amp;A to gross profit and would like to reiterate this reclass continues to apply to these third quarter results and will also apply to the remaining fourth quarter of 2014.
For the third quarter specifically this reclassification was approximately 95 basis points and year-to-date this reclassification impact has been 85 basis points.
Moving on now to our third quarter operating results.
We are pleased to report a third quarter comparable cash EPS of $1.89 a 27.7% increase from our third quarter in 2013.
Included in our comparable cash EPS results in the quarter was $0.15 in acquisition synergy realization.
On a GAAP basis our third quarter EPS was $1.66 which included $0.08 of intangible assets amortization associated with the acquisition of General Parts $0.14 of onetime integration expenses and costs to achieve synergies related to the integration of General Parts and $0.01 in onetime costs associated with the integration of BWP.
Turning to sales.
Our third quarter net sales increased 50.6% to $2.29 billion compared to our third quarter of 2013.
This sales growth was principally driven by the acquisition of General Parts the addition of new stores and our comparable same-store sales increase of 1.5%.
For comparison purposes only net sales for General Parts in our third quarter after adjusting for selling days and holidays this year versus last year increased approximately 2% overall to $728.9 million based on 83 days this year versus 90 days last year.
For the same period our company-operated General Parts locations grew at a rate slightly greater than 3%.
Our positive same-store sales were driven by our strong performance in our Commercial Business and execution from our field and supply chain teams partially offset by the unevenness we experienced in our DIY business driven by lower seasonal category sales.
Year-to-date our total sales increased 49.6% to $7.61 billion.
Turning to gross profit.
Our gross profit dollars in the third quarter increased 35.6% to $1.03 billion from $763 million in our third quarter of 2013.
Our gross profit rate of 45.2% was down 501 basis points compared to third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts resulting in a higher mix of commercial sales that has a lower gross profit rate.
Included in our gross profit results this quarter is the approximate 95 basis points conformity impact that I mentioned earlier which was partially offset by 58 basis points of synergy savings in the quarter.
Year-to-date our gross profit rate decreased 480 basis points to 45.4% versus 50.2% over the same period last year as a result of the General Parts acquisition.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Our comparable SG&amp;A rate was 34.8% in the quarter which was down 367 basis points compared to our third quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was the result of the acquired General Parts business having lower SG&amp;A costs.
SG&amp;A also reflects the approximate 95 basis points of supply chain conformity impact mentioned earlier partially offset by higher incentive compensation due to our sales performance versus last year.
Year-to-date our comparable SG&amp;A rate decreased 371 basis points to 35% versus 38.8% over the same period last year again principally due to the General Parts acquisition.
All in our third quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 33.3% to $236.8 million and our operating income rate decreased 134 basis points over the same period last year to 10.3% primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts.
Year-to-date the company's comparable operating income rate was 10.3% versus 11.4% during the same period last year.
Operating cash flow through the third quarter was $540.3 million versus $398.5 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow through the third quarter improved to $378.8 million versus $250.8 million in the prior year.
Our AP ratio for the quarter was 78.4% versus 83.5% last year.
This decline was expected due to the acquisition of General Parts.
And as previously shared we see continued opportunities to improve our AP ratio as a combined company.
At the end of the third quarter we had roughly $1.73 billion of debt on our balance sheet.
And our adjusted debt to EBITDA was 2.8x and was in line with our expectations.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $133 million of debt and remained focused on our commitment to quickly pay down debt with our free cash flow to get back below the 2.5x leverage ratio and maintain our investment-grade ratings.
We continue to measure the performance of our business and prioritize our investments to achieve growth profit and value creation.
Our growth engine continues to be our Commercial Business which again delivered solid growth in the third quarter helping us deliver our fourth consecutive quarter of positive comps.
We continue investing in new store growth and new market development and continue laying the tracks for growth from our investment in inventory availability.
We also see growth from our service initiatives by relentlessly focusing on people investments through ongoing team member training.
Turning to profit.
We are pleased with our 33.3% comparable operating income dollar growth versus the previous year and the 10.3% comparable operating income rate that we achieved in our third quarter.
We see continued opportunities to improve our profitability as measured by our operating income dollar growth through consistent sales growth leveraging our size and scale and improving our cost efficiency.
We also remain on track to achieve our 1-year cost synergies of $45 million to $55 million on our way to achieving the total expected cost synergies of $160 million over the next 3 years.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of General Parts provides us a compelling opportunity to drive shareholder returns through incremental earnings and strong cash flows.
We saw this in our third quarter with a 27.7% increase in our comparable cash EPS.
We continue to be focused on improving our free cash flow through our disciplined capital deployment consistent operating results and working capital management primarily in the areas of inventory management and AP ratio.
We are pleased with the progress we made in these areas in the quarter.
Our focus on free cash flow is enabling us to pay down our debt to get back to our previously stated leverage ceiling of 2.5x by the end of 2015.
We continue to be on pace to achieve this outcome.
Once our debt is paid down we will continue to optimize our capital structure to maximize shareholder value.
Turning to the balance of the year.
We are pleased with our outcomes through the third quarter and are on track towards achieving our full year objectives as we enter our fourth quarter.
As a reminder Q4 is our lowest volume and most volatile quarter as we compete with the holiday shopping season and seasonally lower demand for parts.
Additionally and as Darren referenced earlier Q4 will see the anniversary of the unseasonably cold winter weather benefit the industry experienced last year.
That being said we expect our Commercial Business strength to continue.
As a result we are maintaining our sales comp guidance of low single digits for the full year and are maintaining our annual 2014 comparable cash EPS full year outlook of $7.50 to $7.60.
As we look to 2015 our priorities will largely remain unchanged.
At the highest level we will continue to focus on running a solid base business and successfully integrating General Parts.
Financially our objectives will be similar to 2014 with our focus on driving top line growth and growing bottom line profit as we enter our second full year as a combined company.
We expect our top line growth to be fueled by continued strong Commercial comps improved execution new stores and continued improvements in our inventory availability.
We look towards 2015 with industry fundamentals that continue to hold steady and while there are some macro indicators that could lead to improved consumer confidence we believe consumers will still be faced with choices for their discretionary spend.
We expect to improve our profitability of the combined company through our work to improve our gross profit rate and cost structure and remain committed to our 3-year goal of achieving $160 million in cost synergies.
We will provide a more detailed annual outlook on our fourth quarter earnings call.
In closing we are satisfied with our performance in the quarter and continue to be on track toward delivering our full year outlook.
Our focus continues to be on our 2 key priorities of delivering on our base business outcomes and successfully integrating General Parts.
We continue to be pleased with the improvements our teams continue to make each quarter with our execution in the spirit of driving consistent sales service and profit outcomes.
The integration is progressing as expected with the team delivering on the planned synergy benefits.
I want to once again thank our 75 000 talented team members for what they do each day to serve our customers inspire our team and grow our great company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the comp result within the AAP business if we look at a multiyear stack basis it did decelerate a bit this quarter despite having more inventory across the company and more inventory availability through some of the cross-sourcing.
Recognizing that DIY was a little choppier maybe you can give us some more detail on what drove the deceleration this quarter.
Michael you said it.
When I look at the quarter and I look across North America our West Coast locations principally WORLDPAC were closer to double digit.
Our Canadian locations were closer to double digit.
CARQUEST we talked about the core CARQUEST-owned locations that we talked about in our conference call script.
AAP maintained its trends in its Commercial comp business.
And DIY was the one -- we started slow and we signaled that at the beginning of the second quarter.
And it was uneven.
It strengthened throughout the quarter.
It was principally seasonal categories.
I think when you put it all into context -- and again you could -- if you parse out our AI business was -- AI-owned locations those were closer to flat.
So that tends to drag on the core AAP comp overall.
And so when I look at it we continue -- and George you may have a couple of comments on this just the DIY plagued us this quarter a little bit in its unevenness.
And for us that's actually not a new story.
What was encouraging is it did strengthen over the course of the quarter.
Would you add anything? Yes not much to add Darren.
I think you said the key themes.
It started early on at the very beginning of Q3 and we sequentially improved our comps throughout the quarter.
And our business got stronger including in DIY.
The Commercial results were good throughout the quarter and we remain very very confident in our ability to execute our new Commercial value prop and get stronger there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then my follow-up is it looks like you got about $13 million of gross margin synergies for the quarter.
As you look forward is that a realistic number that we can think about as a run rate? Or is there -- are you going to see a disproportionate benefit from the gross margin -- some of the purchasing stuff at the beginning and then that's going to tail off over time? Yes so it's Mike.
You're right.
We were just a tad over $13.3 million in terms of our gross margin benefits.
It was about 58 basis points in the quarter.
And I think what we said at the end of our second quarter is we expected quarter 4 to have a little bit more purchasing coming in.
So we would expect that number to continue to be strong in the fourth quarter.
We haven't broke out SG&amp;A.
We've talked about our synergy number.
And I think what I would tell you on synergies is we expect our -- we expect to be at the high end of our synergy range that we've given you for the year and a bigger portion of that will be our purchasing benefits.
The next question is from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> I want to see how we're doing on the closing stores so the incremental 30 stores what sort of sales transfer rate we were able to achieve in the quarter? And then the follow-up would be I know you talked about supply chain and some of the big changes there.
Do we have the plan yet as to how many DCs will ultimately be consolidated or shifted? Or when should we expect that plan? Greg it's George.
I think in the consolidation stores they're very much in line with our expectations.
So as we begin to consolidate stores the sales are transferring over at the rate that we expected.
There is a bit of impact to other stores where when you're moving commercial customers and commercial accounts they sometimes go to Strom [ph] and CARQUEST stores initially and will ultimately make their way to the Advance store but very much where we expected it to be.
On the distribution center side I'm just going to repeat where we've gone in the past on that one.
Our logistics network optimization work is winding down.
We are beginning to execute on that plan.
But in terms of DC consolidations or closures we'll communicate those internally first and we'll go from there.
Yes and just to remind you Greg these first 100 both in terms of principally sales productivity they were at the low end of the band.
And if we don't transfer any sales we'll still make a little bit of money.
I mean these were stores that by and large were borderline stores that we had to make a decision whether you'd close it or not.
And again part of it is these are going to be done at scale over the next couple of years and with the teams learning their way through how do you successfully transfer team members transfer customers.
And so what we're looking to achieve -- as George said we're right on track.
And matter of fact we've learned a few things in terms of this first group of stores in terms of the transition of customers that will help as we go through the balance of the store transitions in the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Could you remind us of the expectation? Was it 70%? Well I think I got in trouble last time to be honest because I said some of them are over 100.
And that's a true statement when we create capacity and service levels.
So some of them we're seeing over 100.
What we said in BWP is that if we get 60% to 70% we feel really good about where we are.
And as George said we're on track with those numbers.
I just don't want people to run away and assume that these first 100 are actually at the same productivity as the average of the chain.
The next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about both the opportunities as well as the potential risks here related to some of the merchandising and product changes that you're making in the stores? Sure Scot.
I think just starting off with the opportunity side we think we have a great opportunity to put together a just fantastic house of brands.
So when you look of the go-forward position of the combined CARQUEST-Advance entity we've done some of that work already.
We've introduced Monroe to the Canadian market and we've seen some very nice results from that and are very very pleased with the way that that went.
I think the risk side is this integration is hard work.
And for the first year or so we've done a very good job of separating integration rhythms and run the business rhythms.
But ultimately the manifestation of most of the work that we do in the integration shows up on the phone in the shop or in the store and that's happening now.
So we are in the physical portion of the product hierarchy work actually relabeling in stores.
And we've -- we're happy with the early results on that one and we think that we've mitigated risk in terms of any kind of distraction to the team.
Yes Scot the only thing I'd add is that our team members they get excited about selling premium products and commercial-grade products.
And when they have the focus on these changeovers as George said in our Canadian business when they have a level excitement about it they get their customers excited.
And we've seen good results albeit we're into the very first inning on some of these product changeovers.
And so I think the opportunity for us when it's all done is across not just the 5 200 owned stores but including the independents we're going to have a consistency of product offerings that really will be commercially led in terms of our Advance organization.
They're very excited about the CARQUEST-branded products coming.
They're very excited about some of the new brands that are coming.
Let's say in terms of the CARQUEST organization they're glad to see some of those brands come back.
Some of them they've had before.
And I was with some independents in Las Vegas and we're having great success in terms of the initial transition of some of those products.
I'll tell you what the risk is is that you're going to be reboxing relabeling and repositioning which is all activity and those are activity in our stores.
And what we have to balance in 2015 I mean we'll be a broken record on this we got to get the product right and we have to get the people right.
When we get product and people right our business tends to work.
And so that intensity of making sure that the excitement of new products balanced by the reality of the work to get them in doesn't end up disrupting our relationships with customers and take our eye off the ball in terms of the base business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then just a quick clarification.
When you guys talk about strength in Commercial I know you guys don't break out specific comps but can we assume that's kind of a mid-single-digit number? That's how you would think of "strength?" Well we would think at least a mid-single-digit number constitutes strength.
The next question is from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First of all from your commentary on DIY it sounds like your DIY comps probably on the whole for the third quarter was below the second quarter level.
Can you tell us how the third quarter Commercial comp compared to the second quarter Commercial comp? Yes so you're right Matt.
Our DIY comp was the principal driver of taking down the overall comp and it was below the second quarter.
In the third quarter it was in line with the second quarter overall.
Research Division</strong> So then -- Commercial then you're saying was in line? In line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question if you could just give us an update as to what you're seeing with your work on daily delivery and how those stores are faring and the impact that you're seeing on sales momentum inventory utilization et cetera? Yes Matt it's George.
We continue to be pleased with our daily delivery stores in terms of the overall sales results.
I think if you look at the domino effect of that what it will ultimately do is allow us to pull back in our maxis at store level and increase our SKU coverage inside the store.
So that's kind of the work in progress and the work ahead of us.
Most of our attention on daily delivery has turned to our Hartford DC.
That began receiving in Q3 ships in Q4 and is going to have a pretty significant ramp up.
So that is our next big footprint in the Northeast in terms of daily delivery is opening up Hartford.
Research Division</strong> And George now that you're deeper into Indianapolis and the work that you've done any quantification of the benefit to a market when you make this change? Yes.
Matt this is Darren.
I think if you go back to what we've said publicly is that if we see -- initially if we said a 3% lift in terms of the market relative to the control stores then we're in good shape.
We've been exceeding that so we're very pleased with it.
And as George said Hartford I think opens up next week in terms of the business and we think that will be real helpful for that Northeast part of our business.
Research Division</strong> And that benefit just my final follow-up that benefit comes primarily on the Commercial side? It actually comes on both.
It's more pronounced on the Commercial side but we're seeing it on both sides of the business.
The next question is from Michael Baker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you about the program where you're putting the WORLDPAC products in 3 000 Advance auto stores.
Can you discuss any early results there? What kind of comp lift you see in those stores? And I guess a follow-up to that is that part of the broader re-merchandising that you're talking about for 2015? Yes.
Do you want to do it George? Yes it's not part of the re-merchandising for 2015.
It is simply an inherent benefit of our new enterprise.
When we say 3 000 stores please understand that's a rolling number.
So some have been on it for a week or 2 and some have been on it for a couple of months.
Where we see the benefit again as we said in the script is just saying yes to customers.
And obviously it gives us a level of import authority that we love having in our stores.
So it's great from a cost standpoint in that we're looking with inside the company versus outside to second source and another good reason to say yes but it's not part of that overall assortment.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And I guess in the ones that have had -- the stores that have had that program I mean is there a measurable lift to the same-store sales in those stores? Here's what I would say Michael.
The lift that we're seeing in there I wouldn't run out and put an extra point of comp in your model.
And the reason I say that is it takes time.
So in order to get access to the product what you're doing is putting the system in the store called speedDIAL that speedDIAL product gives you visibility into WORLDPAC warehouses that are around our locations.
And what has to happen over time is that it's not an on-off switch.
The customers just the general repair customers they're generally working on a lot of domestic vehicles a lot of import/Asian vehicles some European vehicles.
WORLDPAC's strength tends to be across all of import principally European.
And so those general repair shops first have to understand you have it.
And then second they have to get comfortable in terms of ordering it from you and you build that business over time.
It's not a light switch business.
What it does for the Advance stores principally and we saw this with the CARQUEST stores it builds commercial credibility is that part of our value proposition at Advance over time has really been this evolution from the perception of retail to the reality of being a commercial provider.
So it's one more thing that gives us commercial consistency and credibility and more than anything else helps us sell the balance of the products in the portfolio in those stores.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
If I could just jump on a little more short-term issue.
Just on the comps you said business got better throughout the quarter.
Do you look at that on a stacked basis? Was it better even on a stacked basis? And then -- you've given us some good granularity on the comps I am wondering if you could tell us a fourth quarter expectation.
I mean do you expect comps to be positive against a tougher comparison? Yes I would say this Mike is that -- and this is a line George uses internally is that we're pleased with our positive comp performance but we're not satisfied.
We'd be disappointed with comps that weren't positive.
And so as we look at the fourth quarter yes it gets a little bit more difficult principally right at the end of the quarter is when the cold weather really came into the business.
And predicting that we're just not in that business as to how the weather is going to be at the very end of the quarter.
Our expectations with our teams and our goals for the teams are absolutely positive comps.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> My first question is looking at gross margins and the core business.
If you try to exclude the synergies that you guys achieved this quarter how are gross margins for that core business? Hey Seth it's Mike.
So if you remember at the beginning of the year we kind of gave you a range of last year if you put these businesses together in the range of 45.5 to 46.
And we said that we expected the gross margins to be up modestly on the year.
If you look at a year-to-date basis and again if you take that 45.4% number that we are year-to-date and you back out the supply chain reclass of about 85 basis points and the year-to-date synergies of about 48 we're modestly above that number.
And the big drivers of that obviously are we've mixed in more commercial and there's some good stories to that.
Obviously our national accounts are growing so we're mixing in more of that.
Some of the categories like tools and equipment are growing a little bit lower gross margin so we expected some of that mix.
So year-to-date we feel good about the gross margin.
And then obviously over time as our merchandising capabilities kick in our global sourcing capabilities kick in we expect that we will see some upside there.
In the quarter the average for the quarter was slightly below what our year-to-date was.
So I think we came in at a 45.2%.
There's a little bit of -- there's a little bit of noise in there from some inventory growth at AAP last year.
In Q3 last year I think our inventory grew about 12.3%.
This year it grew about 8.3% so that's a little bit of a headwind.
We got a little bit more supply chain cost this year caused by some of the daily replenishment.
Hartford we're starting to receive there.
And then the last little bit of headwind we faced is whenever the DIY we experience a little bit of softness in DIY obviously that impacts our gross profit rate.
But in general we're pretty well right on plan to where we expected to be from a gross margin perspective.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow-up is just around AI.
Can you give us some sense of what your plans are for that business in the future? Are you planning on closing the stores consolidating them? How do we think about that? Yes well our AI business what are we 200 stores now team in terms of that business.
We have a lot to say grace over right now.
And so what we've been doing with AI at this point is we have slowed their growth.
And like last year I think we added a few stores in the Panhandle last year.
We did.
We closed -- consolidated some of the Panhandle just as will again this year in North Florida.
We'll look for ways to optimize the profitability of AI in their overall business results.
And we understand it's a long distribution channel to come from Massachusetts to Florida for that brand.
And the product mix changes pretty drastically when you move down to the southeastern part of the country where AI really built a business around some great undercarriage categories in areas like exhaust where they're very strong.
So the mix tends to change.
Yes.
And I'd say you asked how we're thinking about it as we look out I'll tell you one of the things that we see is that we have our WORLDPAC team working with our AI team.
WORLDPAC's coverage in North America allows us to take some of that AI product and we're doing this without giving away competitive markets right now.
We see the opportunity to leverage some of their private label premium product categories into markets where we're not overlapped.
And so we've asked that team to kind of build out the blueprint in terms of how do you get more leverage on the AI product brand through WORLDPAC in select markets.
Our final question today is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> There's a lot of questions on what's going on in Florida broadly right now with one of your big competitors pushing into that market.
So can you talk about your delivery capabilities as they are now what they will be and what they were prior and from a daily delivery perspective? And any comments on the performance of that market overall would be helpful.
Yes.
Chris when you helicopter up overall I think what we would say -- in our conference call we highlighted the markets that were real standouts.
But we were pleased generally across all of our footprint particularly with our Commercial Business.
When you get into Florida you could pick Florida you could pick other parts of the country.
We have competition showing up everywhere.
And where we've positioned Florida in terms of daily replenishment is that -- principally in that Orlando market Tampa market parts of the northern Panhandle we're using a manual type of process increased to daily replenishment in those stores.
It's not the most cost-effective way to do it so over time we'll double back and improve kind of the system and processes to get that done.
We see an opportunity to extend that all the way to markets like Miami too.
So we're working through that as we go forward.
At this point overall we recognize -- I mean it's like us going into Dallas.
We see markets where we're understored.
We expect our competition to see markets where they are understored and just keep growing.
We know from history that tends to actually put pressure principally on the DIY business.
Because you're taking a business that is essentially a very low grower and just splitting it amongst locations.
And customers tend to go to stores that are closest to them in that business.
And so if your question are we feeling some of that pain when competition comes in? Yes.
Is that new? No.
We see that generally.
And similarly in markets where we go in I imagine you'd ask our competitors if they see the same thing and they would likely say "Yes we do." And so we've prepared for it.
We knew it was coming.
And so now we just have to manage our way through it.
We've done this in Atlanta Chicago and many other markets.
So we've seen it before.
It's roughly a 2-year type of cycle and then we work our way through it.
Anything else George? Yes the daily delivery in Tampa and Orlando is new this year.
It's something that we did in preparation for more of a competitive environment in Florida.
And we'd naturally like to get that throughout the state.
But as you look at Miami it's some of our absolute best hub and super hub network build-out and we're very very pleased with our parts availability in that market.
So will we get there with daily delivery? Yes we will eventually as a matter of natural pacing.
But we like our parts availability in Florida.
Research Division</strong> And then -- and so in the core AAP stores what percentage of the stores or number of stores have daily delivery currently? Oh we're probably -- what almost 600 stores George? Yes right in that ballpark or so.
Research Division</strong> And then Hartford will add how many more? Well Hartford over time eventually up to 400.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just an accounting question for Mike.
As you think about the incentive comp pressure that you saw in the third quarter any quantification there would be great.
And with the 53rd week how does that impact your margin structure? Where does more of the leverage come through in that '15 '16 '17 sense? Yes so the -- I'll do your 53rd week.
That's an estimate for us and quite frankly it's a challenging one because it -- that 53rd week comes right at the beginning of the year and you just never know what the weather is going to be.
I almost wish it was in the middle of the year because there's less volatility the middle of the year than there is at the end of the year.
But it's just -- it's projecting some sales.
It's projecting a gross profit margin rate and it's projecting SG&amp;A variable SG&amp;A and a fixed portion -- fixed allocation so it's nothing more than that.
And that's our best estimate.
And the good news is it's a nice comparable week so I don't think it will any impact plus or minus to how we think about the quarter or the outlook we've given.
Obviously our outlook does not include the 53rd week.
And then in terms of your second question was incentive comp.
The comment in the script was really designed about the year-over-year.
Last year I think we did a minus 2 comp.
This year we did a 1.5 comp.
We pay our team members from whether you're a General Manager or whether you're the CEO to grow our sales and to grow our profits.
And we did a better job this quarter versus last quarter -- sorry versus last year Q3.
And that's why we saw a little bit more incentive comp.
So that's what the comment relates to.
Yes principally at store level.
At store level yes.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Great.
Thanks Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
If you have any additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5097.
Reporters please call Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
And that concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Vice President of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and typically use words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecasts outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to include impacts of cost that were incurred in fiscal 2014 in connection with the integration of General Parts International and B.W.P.
Distributors.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
For planning purposes our first quarter 2015 earnings release is scheduled for May 21 2015 before market open and our quarterly conference call is scheduled for the morning of Thursday May 21 2015.
To be notified of the dates of future earnings reports you can sign up through the Investor Relations section of our website.
Finally a replay of this call will be available on our website for one year.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thank you Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
I'd like to start off by thanking all of our team members for their hard work and commitment to better serve our customers and grow our business.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you on our business operations; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financial performance.
I will begin my prepared remarks today updating you on our fourth quarter performance followed by an outline of our organization objectives for 2015.
Our fourth quarter objectives were the same as they've been all year.
We continue to focus on methodically improving methodically improving our base business while successfully integrating General Parts.
Overall we were satisfied with our progress in the quarter which capped off a very good year.
Our total sales excluding the 53rd week grew 48.1% in the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of the acquisition of General Parts sales from new stores and our comparable store sales increase of 1.1% in the quarter.
Our fourth quarter comparable cash earnings per share of $1.37 increased 46% versus our fourth quarter last year driven again by the acquisition of General Parts as well as our good base business performance.
Our overall sales trends for the quarter mirrored the prior 3 quarter trends.
The commercial business led the way during the quarter once again delivering strong comparable store sales gains.
This business showed consistent and steady strength throughout the quarter with notable increases in both traffic and ticket led by the strong sales increase in ride control and particular strength in our brakes category.
Geographically there was consistent strength throughout our North American operations including AAP CARQUEST and the WORLDPAC locations.
Conversely our DIY business continued its uneven sales trends.
Our DIY business experienced significant positive-to-negative comparable store sales swing from November through the end of the year consistent with the cold weather patterns.
Geographically the Northeast to the Midwest experienced the largest decline in comp sales.
Batteries and wipers saw the largest declines from a category view.
It is another reminder that weather has an immediate short-term impact but evens out over the long term.
During the quarter both our gross profit rate and our comparable SG&amp;A rate declined.
Gross profit rate declined 495 basis points to 44.9% and the SG&amp;A improved on a comparable basis 510 basis points to 36.6%.
This was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts and strong commercial comp sales growth.
Overall both were in line with our expectations and Mike will be discussing the financials in more detail shortly.
Turning to our integration.
Now having completed the first full year of integration activities we are pleased with the overall achievement of our priorities we've set at the beginning of the year.
We had a key focus on cultural assimilation of the businesses customers and team member retention which all contributed to our solid financial results.
I am most pleased with the assimilation of the cultures which played a key role in our improved team member and customer retention in 2014.
The outcome is great service to our customers without any interruption.
Great service included maximizing our combined availability in our stores to close more transactions.
Our Advance and CARQUEST stores are cross-sourcing product at a steadily growing basis.
Similarly over 3 700 Advance stores have access to WORLDPAC products as we begin 2015.
Improving our commercial value proposition included integrating our differentiated customer programs including TechNet and CTI into Advance and introducing Motoshop to CARQUEST.
These programs achieved record levels of performance in 2014 and we are very pleased with our start to 2015.
The CARQUEST independent business is an important strategic customer addition for Advance.
We were focused from the onset to ensure our independent customers understood our commitment and the benefits of being part of the Advance organization.
At year end we are encouraged to see strong retention amongst our independents and we'll look to continually improve and differentiate their business to help them be successful.
Operationally we executed early consolidations with 100 CARQUEST and 11 Autopart International locations.
The early returns are meeting our expectations.
Importantly the teams are working exceptionally well together and we have learned some important lessons for the next wave of store conversion and consolidations.
Our market entry into Dallas in 2014 exceeded our expectations.
It was unique because it leveraged the CARQUEST systems and supply chain to open Advanced Auto Parts stores.
We now have a total of 15 stores in Dallas through the new stores and market conversions.
We are happy with the performance of these locations and we'll look to continue our expansion in Dallas and other Western markets using the Dallas approach.
Finally in the fourth quarter we began the intense work of harmonizing the product brand SKU and price positioning of the businesses.
The lift replace and relabels are a Herculean effort that touches every part of our business.
This work will continue throughout 2015 and we are off to a good start.
Our methodical improvement in the base business like our integration objectives performed well.
Specifically we were satisfied with the sales outcomes as the team delivered a 2% comparable stores sales increase for the year led by the consistent strength of our commercial business all year.
The combination of effective execution from our field teams and the hard parts availability improvements from our merchant and supply chain teams supported the sales performance.
Notably the first half of the year sales benefited from the favorable frigid weather conditions.
The business improved from our continued progress against our service objectives including our training programs business simplification continued investments in our HUBs daily delivery growth and supply chain initiatives.
George will talk in more depth shortly about these.
We're also very proud of our teams continuing to stay focused on expense management and taking those costs out furthest from the customer.
Financially we outperformed the expectations we set at the start of the year by delivering comparable cash EPS of $7.59 nearly 30 -- 34% growth over last year.
Collectively our base business had a good but not a great year.
I say that because we fell short of our own internal financial ambitions that were meaningfully higher.
Most encouraging from my vantage point in 2014 it confirmed the growth and value creation potential of the Advanced Auto Parts and General Parts acquisition.
The cultural consistency coupled with the complementary talent and capabilities provides the most diversified growth platform in the aftermarket industry.
Correspondingly the combination highlighted key challenges that are part of a large scale acquisition principally the IT complexity and balancing of the base business needs with the acquisition requirements.
2014 confirmed that once again the integrated Advance Auto Parts will be positioned as the largest commercial online import and integrated aftermarket supplier with extraordinary organic growth potential as we look to the future.
Now turning to 2015.
We remain relentlessly focused at the highest level on the same two objectives as last year: methodically improving the base business while delivering the next phase of the integration.
We entered into 2015 with reasonably optimistic outlook on the business based on the momentum we are building as a combined organization the overall strategic positioning of our company and the favorable industry fundamentals.
Now that is partially offset by last year's benefit from the cold weather.
That said we are realistic about the extraordinary intense and complex integration work as well that lies ahead this year.
From a base business perspective the macro environment should position the industry favorably in 2015.
The combination of steadily improving job market along with lower gasoline prices should help provide a positive impact over the course of the year.
As always there are offsets and the Affordable Care Act could continue to challenge some of our customers in the year ahead.
Industry fundamentals continue to be strong with miles driven showing steady improvement and should increase spending in select discretionary maintenance categories over time.
Our own corporate office consolidations coupled with our recently completed sales and operations integration work will likely create some strain in the system as the teams adjust and reestablish to consistent rhythms in running their businesses.
Looking at our business specifically we will continue to focus on the structural program improvements to further accelerate sales in our commercial business in 2015.
A combination of product brand and service initiatives is being launched to enhance and further differentiate our already strong value proposition.
Our DIY business delivered inconsistent performance in 2014.
Albeit better than the prior 2 years I'd like to be clear that our DIY business has our full attention.
We will be focused on sustained improvements in our DIY business in 2015 principally through our Speed Perks launch and omnichannel work.
We will focus on extending our leadership position in imports and making the necessary investments to continue to grow that business.
And George will talk a little bit more about our new store growth as we look out into 2015.
We also continue to invest and further develop our eService capabilities in 2015.
E-commerce is a capability that we have been investing in for some time and continue to believe is a key differentiator for our customers.
Now turning to our integration priorities in 2015.
We are on the front end of unquestionably a more complex phase of the integration.
This was expected given we were undertaking one of the largest integration projects in our industry's history.
So we are realistic about the significant work ahead of us and have outlined our priorities to maximize our outcomes and minimize the risk to our customers.
The integration priorities this year will be focused in the following areas: One successfully executing the product SKU brand price harmonization across Advance and CARQUEST businesses; two we'll have to complete the corporate office consolidation and relocations and increasing efficiencies within these functions; three we will integrate and assimilate the Advance Auto Parts and CARQUEST field and commercial sales teams which we launched at the beginning of the year; four we will achieve the critical customer capabilities in the supply chain and IT integration work; and then five continue the integration activities in optimizing our assets through the market conversions and consolidation activities.
Our year 1 integration efforts were successful and can be compared to changing our brakes.
Year 2 can be compared to rebuilding the transmission.
We will get it done and it will be more complex and I have all the confidence in the team to get it done.
In summary 2015 must build on the 2014 methodical improvements in our business.
We are clear on our objectives for the year as we continue to focus on our base business while embarking on year 2 of our integration.
Our key outcomes for the year do not change in 2015.
Our focus on sales growth service excellence and profit growth underpin our path to being the best.
Advance has never been this well-positioned to grow its sales with our North American footprint and its great organic growth potential.
We have the value proposition capability set of talented team members to serve our customers better than anyone else in the industry and we are translating that into service excellence and profit in 2015.
Mike will give you more detail shortly.
In closing I'd like to express my thanks again and say how proud I am of our team for the outcomes they drove in 2014 and look forward to taking the next step in both our integration and more importantly towards our mission to be the best.
I'd now like to turn the call over to George Sherman our President.
George? Thanks Darren.
First I too would like to thank all of our team members for their contributions to customer service in the quarter and doing all the right things that show our customers that we put them first.
At the heart of executional excellence is customer service and our team members drove our success this quarter through their commitment to the customer.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide a view on our fourth quarter business performance to get a little perspectives on the year ahead.
Looking at sales despite higher ambitions we have to the business we were satisfied with our performance in the fourth quarter as the team delivered a comp sales outcome of 1.1%.
Our positive sales performance was once again led by solid performance in our commercial business and good execution by our field merchant and supply chain teams as we navigated milder seasonal weather.
Our solid comp sales acceleration in our commercial business was led by our Northeast market followed by our Midsouth and Great Lakes markets and benefiting overall from both transaction and ticket growth in the quarter.
Our B2B business continues to perform very well with double-digit growth once again in the fourth quarter versus the previous year.
We continue to be pleased with our national account growth and the partnerships we are both establishing and growing.
We once again delivered good growth in the fourth quarter and solid double-digit growth with our national accounts for the full year.
As Darren referenced we continue to make good progress with the integration of our commercial service programs between Advance and CARQUEST by adding CARQUEST Technical Institute and TechNet customers for the Advance payer proposition and we're adding Motoshop customers for the CARQUEST tool belt.
The total number of TechNet customers at the end of fiscal year was over 6 000 a new record for the program.
Turning to our DIY business.
As referenced earlier our DIY performance was more uneven in this quarter.
We continue to see softer demand this quarter in seasonal and maintenance categories due to weather being unseasonably mild partially offset by improvement in our average ticket.
That said we still have higher expectations of our DIY business and are focused on continuous improvement and making the right investment to play to a different outcome.
One such investment is our Speed Perks loyalty program.
Speed Perks has been rolled out to nearly the entire country and we're seeing very promising early results from the program.
Turning to integration.
We're pleased with how our first full year of integration efforts have gone.
We're on track overall and achieved what we needed to this past year.
This integration is still in the early innings and it's going to be a lot of hard work over the next couple of years.
But as I've said in the past we expect to see visible proof points of progress along the way that positively impact our base business.
I'd like to now share some perspectives and additional color on the integration work in 2014 and some commentary on the priorities and expectations for 2015.
Our first 100 consolidations are performing at expectation.
We are not retaining 100% of the sales in these consolidations nor do we expect to.
For example we chose not to fill in every product into our Advance store but the CARQUEST store sales due to these being lower volume stores.
And we do see some variability between stores based on a number of factors.
But overall these have met our expectations in terms of team and revenue expectation and cost-reduction.
Going forward the vast majority of our convergence and consolidations will be converted by market.
We completed our first of the conversions in Dallas and Houston in late 2014 and will be completing our first consolidations in most markets in Q1.
The consolidations are doing very well and these markets are where we'll invest our resources and time.
We expect to do more consolidations conversions and relocations of stores across several markets in 2015 and we'll share them out once we are in execution.
We have completed the vast majority of our cost cross-sourcing connections including WORLDPAC availability for Advance stores as of the end of 2014.
The CARQUEST Advance volume is at steady-state and is becoming part of our standard market availability.
We expect WORLDPAC cross-sourcing to Advance to continue to grow for 2015 as our team and customer understands that unique value proposition.
The benefits of this work are incorporated into our comp projection for the year.
Looking at systems we are focused on connecting our systems to run as one organization.
We are in a race to replace the CARQUEST POS system with the Advance's or vice versa as both will live in our environment for several years.
This is heavy lifting without a doubt.
We're inheriting legacy systems that are over 25 years old and with that comes additional consolidations and challenges.
That said though we're pleased with what we're learning from both systems and perhaps more importantly the catalog associated with both systems and are prioritizing the integrations that bring the customer the most value first.
We are very pleased with our independent business and our independent customers.
This business represents an opportunity to penetrate portions of the automotive aftermarket that we've had a hard time doing with traditional Advance stores.
Clearly the biggest change for the business in 2015 is working through the product conversions.
But we and our independent customers are confident that we are we're moving to a better product lineup that enables them to be even more successful in growing their businesses in their markets.
The final point I'd like to touch on is how the integration has been progressing with our teams.
We continue to be very pleased with our cultural assimilation.
Our teams are coming together very well and function by function region by region we're finding that we can learn from each other.
And our teams gravitated to that learning from each other so we can be better for our customer.
The work of consolidating our offices and relocations has overall gone positively.
The task of centralizing operations is not without challenges and the extremes has yielded more work than anticipated.
But the teams have been working tremendously hard and have always been a realistic of the journey towards building an organizational structure that can sustain year in and year out.
Moving on I'd like to update you now on our supply chain initiatives.
We've been methodically progressing against our supply chain objectives.
The integration activities and our logistics optimization work continue to progress as expected.
The first step in our supply chain optimization strategy is to align the product across all of our DCs and to connect the CARQUEST DCs in the AAP distribution centers systematically so that we can operate as one Integrated supply chain.
That is the focus of our integration supply chain work in 2015.
Our operational focus will continue to enhance our in-market availability and daily delivery capabilities and concentrating on the successful ramp-up of our Hartford DC to keep moving the Advance network along the next level of benefits.
At the end of the fourth quarter our Hartford DC was servicing 103 stores on daily delivery and we estimate serving over 200 stores by the end of Q1 in 2015.
Second we continue to drive improvement of in-market availability for our HUB store strategy.
During the quarter we added 6 HUB stores through a combination of combination of new stores and upgrades of existing stores.
At the end of the quarter our HUB store count was 421 an overall increase of 47 from the fourth quarter last year.
Third as we looked at inventory our inventory growth was up roughly 54% year-over-year in the fourth quarter primarily due to the expected inventory growth as a result of the General Parts acquisition; increased inventory assortments; our increase in new stores and HUB stores and additional inventory to support the Hartford DC opening.
We continue to be focused on our goal of having superior availability the deepest assortment and investment in our strategy to get parts closest to the customer.
Looking at our new store growth during the quarter we opened 48 new Advance Autopart International and CARQUEST stores and closed 5 stores including planned consolidations of 87 CARQUEST and B.W.P.
stores bringing the total company-operated store count to 5 261.
We also added 2 WORLDPAC branches in the quarter bringing our total branch count to 111.
In 2015 we expect to open approximately 100 to 120 new stores and branches including 12 new WORLDPAC branches.
In closing we're pleased with our 2014 outcomes as a whole.
Led by the strength of our commercial business our base business has reversed the trend now having delivered 5 consecutive quarters of positive comp performance.
We're laser focused and looking towards our future and rightly so.
But it's important to take a moment and reflect in our achievements in 2014.
Simply said we've got a lot done this year and as a testament to the commitment shown by our entire Advance team.
From new loyalty and advertising programs for our DIY business and accelerating our e-commerce capabilities to enhancing our availability through expansion of HUBs and daily delivery at our Remington and Lakeland facilities inclusive of opening our first HUB store in Canada.
We're meaningfully moving the needle on our training initiatives and winning the AAIA Head of the Class Award for commitment to team member education and training.
We also saw numerous integration achievements from entering our first few markets in 5 years when we entered Dallas using combined Advance-CARQUEST assets from cross-sourcing initiatives in our first 100 consolidations just to name a few.
As I close I'd like to say how proud I am of our Advance team members for staying focused in our priorities delivering against our outcomes of growing our sales giving our customers great service and growing our profits.
Entering 2015 we'll continue to methodically continue to progress against our plan and carry the momentum we've built in 2014 through to 2015.
We're optimistic about the year overall but remain balanced as we progress through the heavier and more complex stages of integration.
I'm confident Advance is a business that has the right people the right market position we have made the right investments and have a value proposition that is second to one as we continue to take steps toward being the best.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented and dedicated team members for their commitment to serving our customers in 2014 and helping our company deliver strong financial performance in our fourth quarter and for the full year 2014.
I plan to cover the following topics with you this morning: one provide some financial highlights from our fourth quarter of 2014; two put our fourth quarter and full year results into context with our expectations and key financial priorities that we use to measure our performance; and three share with you our financial outlook for 2015.
As a reminder and unless otherwise specified Advance will present its financials and supporting commentary on a consolidated enterprise basis and will also discuss results on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of onetime integration expenses related to the acquisition of both General Parts and B.W.P.
along with any amounts related to the amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of General Parts.
Fiscal 2014 also includes an additional 53rd week of business.
The financial results have been reported on a comparable basis to exclude the 53rd week.
Please refer to the reconciliation of the financial results reported on a GAAP basis to comparable results in the accompanying financial statements in our press release.
Also as mentioned on our previous earnings calls this year we had a conformity reclassification of supply chain cost from SG&amp;A to gross profit and would like to reiterate this reclass continues to apply to these fourth quarter results.
For the fourth quarter this reclassification was approximately 101 basis points.
And for full fiscal 2014 this reclassification impact has been 89 basis points.
To summarize for fiscal 2014 we previously communicated our full year comparable cash EPS guidance of $7.50 to $7.60.
And we are pleased to have delivered against the high side of those expectations with a comparable cash EPS of $7.59 a 34% increase from 2013.
This was driven by a 2% comp for the full year strong commercial growth $0.52 in total cost synergies achieved in the year and continued focus and discipline on expense management.
We are encouraged by our continuous improvement as an organization as we finished our first year as a combined company and are well-positioned to leverage our size and scale to grow our sales and operating profits for 2015.
On a GAAP basis our 2014 EPS was $6.71 which included $0.61 of onetime integration costs for the year associated with the acquisition of General Parts including $0.30 in Q4 $0.36 of intangible assets amortization for the year including $0.08 in Q4 and $0.08 in onetime costs associated with the integration of B.W.P.
including $0.01 in Q4.
2014 GAAP EPS also includes $0.17 related to the 53rd week results.
Turning to sales.
Our fourth quarter net sales increased 48.1% to $2.09 billion compared to our fourth quarter of 2013.
This sales growth was principally driven by the acquisition of General Parts the addition of new stores and our comparable same-store sales increase of 1.1%.
For comparison purposes only net sales for General Parts in our fourth quarter after adjusting for selling days and holidays this year versus last year was essentially flat overall at $650.6 million based on 82 days this year versus 90 days last year.
For the same period our company-operated General Parts locations grew at a rate of 1.6%.
Our positive same-store sales were driven by our strong performance in our commercial business and execution from our field and supply chain teams partially offset by the unevenness we experienced in our DIY business driven by lower seasonal category sales.
Total sales for fiscal 2014 increased 49.3% to $9.69 billion.
Turning to gross profit.
Our gross profit dollars in the fourth quarter increased 33.4% to $936.2 million from $701.8 million in our fourth quarter of 2013.
Our gross profit rate of 44.9% was down 495 basis points compared to fourth quarter of 2013.
This year-over-year rate decline was primarily due to the acquisition of General Parts resulting in a higher mix of commercial sales that has a lower gross profit rate.
Included in our gross profit results this quarter is the approximately 101 basis points conformity impact that I mentioned earlier which was partially offset by 87 basis points of synergy savings in the quarter.
For fiscal 2014 our gross profit rate decreased 484 basis points to 45.2% versus 50.1% during fiscal 2013 as a result of the General Parts acquisition.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Our comparable SG&amp;A rate was 36.6% in the quarter which was down 510 basis points compared to fourth quarter of 2015.
This year-over-year rate decline was the result of the acquired General Parts business having a lower SG&amp;A cost combined with lower incentive compensation expenses.
Comparable SG&amp;A reflects the approximate 101 basis points of supply chain conformity impact mentioned earlier.
For fiscal 2014 our comparable SG&amp;A rate decreased 402 basis points to 35.4% versus 39.4% during fiscal 2013 again principally due to the General Parts acquisition.
All in our fourth quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 50.8% to $171.7 million and our operating income rate increased 15 basis points over the same period last year to 8.2%.
For fiscal 2014 the company's comparable operating income rate was 9.9% versus 10.7% during fiscal 2013.
While we over-delivered our onetime synergies in year 1 our actual 2014 onetime GPI integration costs came in slightly higher than our estimate at $73.2 million.
This was partly due to our decision to accelerate some of the work and also having less than perfect information at the beginning of the fiscal year as we made our estimates.
Operating cash flow increased approximately 30% to $709 million in fiscal 2014 versus $545.3 million in the prior year.
Free cash flow increased 37.5% in fiscal 2014 to $480.5 million versus $349.5 million in the prior year.
Our AP ratio for the quarter was 78.6% versus 85.3% last year.
This decline was expected due to the acquisition of General Parts and as previously shared we see continued opportunities to improve our AP ratio as a combined company.
At the end of fourth quarter we had roughly $1.64 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.7x and was in line with our expectations.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $99 million of debt and are progressing as planned to quickly pay down debt with our free cash flow to get back below 2.5x leverage ratio and maintain our investment-grade ratings.
We continue to measure our performance of our business and prioritize our investments to achieve growth profit and value creation.
Our growth engine continues to be our commercial business which again delivered solid growth in the fourth quarter helping us deliver our fifth consecutive quarter of positive comps.
We continue investing in new store growth new market development and from our investments in inventory availability.
We also see growth from our service initiatives by relentlessly focusing on people investments through ongoing team member training and customer retention programs such as our Speed Perks loyalty program.
Turning to profit.
We are pleased with our 50.8% comparable operating income dollar growth versus the previous year.
We're also pleased with our operating comparable income rate for the full year reaching approximately 10% as a combined company and see opportunities to achieve 12% through consistent sales growth gross profit improvement and leveraging our size and scale to improve our cost efficiency.
We are also pleased to have exceeded our year 1 cost synergies by delivering just over $61 million in fiscal 2014 and remain on pace towards achieving the total expected cost synergies of $160 million over the 3 years post-acquisition.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of General Parts continue to provide us with a compelling opportunity to drive shareholder returns through incremental earnings and strong cash flows.
We saw this in our fourth quarter with a 45.7% increase in our comparable cash EPS.
We remain focused on improving our free cash flow through our disciplined capital deployment consistent operating results and working capital management primarily in the areas of inventory management and AP ratio.
We are pleased with the free cash flow generated from these areas in 2014 which has enabled us to deliver on our commitment to pay down debt and we remain on pace to get back to our previously stated leverage saving [ph] of 2.5x by the end of 2015.
Once achieved we will have flexibility in our capital structure to continue to maximize shareholder value.
Before I share my commentary regarding our 2015 outlook I would like to recognize that 2014 had some unique considerations due to the acquisition of GPI and the 53rd week that may make modeling challenging.
To assist with this we would like to remind everyone that fiscal 2014 contained an extra week the 53rd week which will not occur in 2015.
This extra week is not included in our 2014 52-week comparable results nor should this week be included in 2015 to maintain comparability.
Full details of the impact of this 53rd week can be found in our press release but as a summary the extra week included $150.4 million in sales $21.1 million in operating income and $0.17 in EPS.
For clarity purposes we have also included in our press release our expected tax rate range and share count that we expect and have based our outlook on.
Turning now to our 2015 annual outlook.
We will again report results on a comparable cash EPS basis.
We're optimistic as we head into 2015 given the momentum we continue to build with our commercial business an environment of improving consumer confidence supported by lower fuel prices and steady industry fundamentals.
Our optimism is somewhat tempered with the reality that the work in the second year of the integration will be more complex and challenging.
All in we anticipate our comp store sales to be in the range of low single-digits including the impact of consolidations.
As a reminder the GPI company-owned locations will be included in our comp store sales calculation beginning in the second fiscal period of 2015.
This excludes sales to our independent customers.
Turning to new stores.
As George referenced earlier we plan to collectively open 100 to 120 new stores and WORLDPAC branches.
We will also continue the work of consolidating converting and relocating CARQUEST locations throughout 2015.
Turning to gross profit.
Excluding the impact of achieved synergy we expect to see modest improvement in the 2015 gross profit rate driven by improved merchandise margins due to lower acquisition costs increased global sourcing and improved supply-chain efficiencies partially offset by a higher mix of commercial sales which has a lower gross profit rate the annualization of the Hartford DC and pricing harmonization activities as we bring the banners together.
Looking at our SG&amp;A excluding the impact of achieved synergies we expect a modest improvement in our SG&amp;A as we leverage our size and scale to continue to lower our support cost structure improve our labor productivity offset by the annualization of new stores in 2014.
Moving to synergies.
Consistent with our previous communications we continue to estimate total net run rate cost synergies to be $160 million by approximately the end of the third year post close of the acquisition.
Specifically in fiscal 2015 we expect to achieve approximately $45 million to $55 million in net synergies.
Also as part of our previous communications at the beginning of 2014 we estimated total onetime expense to achieve synergies to be approximately $190 million over a 5-year period with the majority of the costs being incurred within the first 3 years.
We expect to incur approximately $75 million to $85 million in onetime costs related to the integration of GPI in 2015.
Turning to capital expenditures.
We expect our capital expenditures including base business and integration to be approximately $325 million to $340 million driven by new store development supply chain investments and IT systems.
We expect free cash flow to be a minimum of $475 million.
Our tax rate estimate for 2015 is between 37.5% and 38%.
As a reminder our tax rate in 2014 included specific favorable items in fiscal 2014 that we do not expect to reoccur in 2015.
All in we expect our 2015 annual comparable cash EPS outlook to be in the range of $8.35 to $8.55 per share.
This EPS outlook does not factor in any share repurchases.
In closing we are pleased with our overall performance in 2014 and are proud of the teams for delivering on our base business outcomes and achieving our first year integration milestones.
We head into 2015 with positive momentum and optimism balanced by the fact that we have a year of heavy lifting ahead of us as we go deeper into the operational phase of the integration work.
I would like to finish by thanking and recognizing our team members once again for their tremendous and tireless efforts in 2014 and for what they do every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question today is from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike there appeared to be some confusion earlier this morning if the results were including or excluding the extra week.
So just to confirm the $1.37 that was on your release excluded the benefit the $0.17 benefit from the 13th week in the quarter? Yes Dan.
The number we released on the top of our headline we did it on a 52-week cash EPS basis because that's consistent with how we gave the outlook for the year.
So if you remember we gave the outlook for the year at $7.50 to $7.60 that was on a 52-week basis.
And we came in at the high end of that range at $7.59.
And yes you're correct.
We actually -- we delivered $1.37 for the quarter on a comparable EPS basis in the quarter.
And then if you add the $0.17 for that the number is $1.54 including the 50 -- including the 53rd week.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Darren you made a comment that the base business was good not great.
How should we reconcile that with the company's goals of improving 250 basis points of operating margin rate for the base business that you had outlined at the investor meeting back in Indiana a few years ago? Yes Dan.
Here's what I would say in terms of that comment.
When I look at our sales this year in terms of our comparable store sales performance we absolutely were spot on where we said we would be.
I think where we were a little light this year was in our gross margin rate honestly and part of that is just going through the balancing act as I said in my comments of the base business driving that making the price changes as we go through the integration efforts as a business and we came up a little short on our gross margin rate.
We exceeded expectation in terms of our SG&amp;A management.
So by the time you get to the bottom line it was a good year.
And I would say it's typical for us to have higher expectations every year.
You would expect us internally to have higher expectations than some of the external ones.
That's just how we've gone to business every year.
And so what was reflected internally is that we didn't achieve our high internal expectations but that does not take us off pace to achieve our longer-term objective of 12%.
George would you add anything to that? All I'd add Darren is since that comment the baseline has been reset with the acquisition of GPI.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just the last question I have with regards to this year's work on the vendor and product consolidation.
If you're able to achieve that without any disruptions can you give us some type of a payback that we might see in the way of inventory per store? Does that decline or increase in 2015? And then also in terms of margin benefit how would that make up that $40 million to $55 million of synergies that you're looking for this year? Yes I would frame it this way and then I'll have the team jump in.
See 2015 Dan you should have taken away from our comments I mean that we were purposeful intense complex Herculean and those could be a little bit -- they're not exaggerated in terms of the work effort.
In 2015 we'll actually have somewhat of a bubble as we put in new vendors as we're taking out old vendors.
But that does not take away from the longer-term benefit over the next couple of years as we get into 2016 in terms of those inventory levels coming down.
But we're going to have this challenge this year as we put in new vendors Monroe take out the old the old vendor as we work down some of that inventory.
And of course some of it's going back to our vendor partners.
But there will be timing challenges this year in terms of that transition.
But over the long term we see one of the bigger value creators in terms of cash flow is rationalizing down the overall amount of inventory per store.
And that will be principally driven again also by our daily replenishment efforts longer term and it will be driven also by -- when we get the teams all consolidated in Raleigh in terms of our merchant teams the more effective and efficient running of that business as well.
Charles what would you add to that? Yes.
I think Dan we've got a very formalized program on how we're tracking through the inventories that move through the year.
From what we see today we are on track around our expectations of what that -- the level that Darren's talked about and the speed at which we're going to move through that.
In certain markets we'll see improvement as we expand our 5x capability across multiple DCs building on the 5x capability that we built this year.
So I think we have the right plan and we have the right visibility to make sure that when managing our way through to improve inventory productivity into 2016 and 2017 being driven by both consolidation and the positive impact that we're going to see from the expansion of our daily delivery through the Advance network.
The next question is from Scot Ciccarelli with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you talked about both gross margin and SG&amp;A improvements that are expected for 2015.
But if you look at your 2014 adjusted earnings and call it $50 million or so in cost synergies you get to roughly $8 in earnings for '15.
So the implication is basically there's very very little margin expansion for the balance of the business.
So I guess the question guys is is there something else acting as a drag on the profit and margin guide for '15? Or is this simply a function of gross margins not coming in where you would have expected them and expecting that trend to continue? Yes.
So Scot let me start and then I'm going to turn it over to George.
First of all we're pleased with our outlook because we're delivering synergies and as we said over a 3-year period we're going to deliver $160 million and outlook next year is $45 million to $55 million.
So we're right on pace for that.
And as you say that is going to drive operating income growth and EPS growth.
The base business is also growing.
So let me just help you a little bit with math.
If you look at the outlook range that we gave $7.35 to $7.55 and if you back out the midpoint of the range let's say $50 million in synergies.
If you back that out both -- and you look at the range -- sorry $8.35 to $8.55 and you back out the $50 million in synergies we see the base business growing at roughly 5% to 7% if you use that same range.
Now where are we seeing that? Well continuing margin improvements through our merchandising our global sourcing SG&amp;A improvements through our labor productivity and taking out costs in our support centers and having a more cost-effective model.
The other thing embedded in our numbers is we're accelerating the growth of WORLDPAC.
That costs us SG&amp;A dollars.
We think that's good for the long-term growth of the business.
We're accelerating our supply chain initiatives like daily replenishment.
So when you put those things in those are all embedded in those numbers so we're really pleased with the growth that we're driving and we're positioning the business for growth.
George I don't know if you'd add anything to that.
Yes I think those are the key points Mike.
I think the base business will grow next year independent of the synergies a sizable investment and supply chain a sizable investment at WORLDPAC branches you might think of that in terms of $0.20.
So there is a good investment into those 2 areas the daily delivery and then adding 12 more WORLDPAC branches.
Yes.
I actually think that's where the confusion is Scot is that we don't make it a habit to break out in an EPS type of way where we're investing next year.
In the Advance DC network we will double nearly double the amount of stores being serviced by daily replenishment.
It's going to cost us up to $0.15 and in WORLDPAC we're going to double -- I think they're up 50% they'll go from 8 locations to 12 right in terms of new stores.
It's going to cost us about $0.05.
And so that's embedded in the base business.
We think those are absolutely the right things to do in terms of growing our availability and accelerating our import business and that's part of what the confusion may be.
But it's absolutely the right investment in terms of what we need to do for the base business.
It will help our integration efforts too because as we grow WORLDPAC it allows us to support more Advance and CARQUEST locations.
As we're doing daily replenishment it also helps those markets that we are targeting conversion for.
So $0.05 on WORLDPAC going at far more aggressively 15 on supply chain the 5x deliveries worth of inventory benefit's going to really come from what Dan talked about earlier so we need to do that we need to accelerate that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's all very helpful guys.
And then can you give us a better idea just in terms of how many stores at this point have the daily inventory replenishment or kind of where we're going I guess during the course of '15? And then what kind of benefit could that end up generating? I'm assuming those stores are more productive than those that are getting inventory once or twice a week.
Yes generally all of the CARQUEST stores have daily replenishment already.
650 Advance Auto Parts stores are on daily replenishment and you can think in terms of our doubling the Advance count during the course of the year.
The next question is from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> My first question was to dig a little deeper on the synergies the $45 million to $55 million.
Why is this year's net number less than last year's? And how much do you expect that to play out through the year either quarter or by half? Let me start off and say that it's going to be increasingly difficult to make a distinction between run-the-business benefits and synergy benefits related to the acquisition.
We are now knee-deep in the integration work so we've done I think a really good job for the first 12 months of trying to very separately manage run the business work streams and integration work streams.
It's fair to say that the integration is in the field now.
So it is now something that the rubber hits the road obviously with our stores and our customers that's where the integration is now.
So it will get tougher to pin down what is an integration synergy versus what is just a good run-the-business discipline.
Yes.
And Greg I would add that we had a 3-year plan and we shared today it would probably be fairly equal across those 3 years with -- and we talked about the buckets and we thought more of the purchasing ones would come at the beginning and the fact of the matter is we over-delivered a little bit more in year 1 in terms of purchasing and some of internal sourcing and we didn't change our second year numbers.
So we actually think it's a positive that we over-delivered that first year and didn't change what we were kind of forecasting.
And again these are estimates that we're doing and obviously we always try to beat the estimates.
But we're pleased with the progress we're making and we're on track to deliver that $160 million in net synergies.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a different question but somehow linked.
I can't remember on whose prepared comments it was you discussed how the comps are harder on the first half than the second half.
If we look at last year once we take out everything what do we think the real organic sales growth number of the business was? If you had a 2% comp and you have some footage growth and then you had whatever the core business was doing let's say it was organic whatever number 4% or 5%.
How would you look at this year when you did your guidance? Do you think this year ultimately organically would be the same a little better a little worse given the comparisons? There's maybe 3 questions in there Greg.
Let me see if I can -- maybe I can try to parse through question #1.
In part one we said it would be a little tougher.
All we're recognizing is that on the front end of this year we had a weather benefit last year.
We saw nearly a 500 basis points swing from November to December in our DIY business and it was cold weather.
We just sold fewer batteries.
Some of that will linger into the front end of this year.
We feel good about our sales trend right now so I don't want you to overreact to that.
So that was what we will face.
We're facing a little bit of a weather benefit it evens out.
Two organically maybe a way to think about it is that the 2% comp we reported this year was just an Advance typical comp.
Organically if we had the CARQUEST numbers in last year it would've gone up a little bit because the commercial business was stronger.
We're early into this year and you could say "Gee the comp guidance feels light." And that'll be reasonable comment.
What we're recognizing is that we should expect the comp just by virtue of adding in the CARQUEST commercial this year gets better for sure.
You have to offset that against probably 2 things that we're seeing is that when you go to do the lift and replace and you do the rebox relabel systems work there tends to just be the reality of the teams stopped focusing for a period of time on the sales process.
They got to get the work done.
And the other thing that we've gone through is that we reorganized our field organization and the teams are working through that process.
There just tends to the reality of little bit of disruption and the teams have to get back in rhythm of their business.
So we were trying to manage both the expectations in terms of working through the integration efforts rebalancing that back with what the base business opportunity is this year and organically by virtue of adding CARQUEST into the mix and the WORLDPAC locations into the mix it's better offset by the complexity of the work we're seeing.
Anything else you'd add George? Yes.
I would add that we're off to a very good start.
So if you look at the integration of our field organization first of all culturally the teams have got along very very well.
The 2 organizations have overlaid quite well and I think the team's demonstrated capacity to stay focused on sales while working through all of the heavy lifting of the integration.
The next question is from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Research Division</strong> First a clarification on some of your cost synergies guidance.
In the release today you talked about net run rate cost synergies related to the acquisition to be under $60 million previously you had been talking about total run rate.
Can you just clarify the difference? Yes.
So Seth let me give you a couple of examples.
In some cases gross and net are exactly the same.
So when we go in and negotiate a contract for instance a fleet services or one of our contracts and we get a savings on that because of our new size and scale those numbers are exactly the same.
So if we get a $1 million in savings the net and gross are the same.
Purchasing ones are a little bit more complex.
So our merchandising team now will go and negotiate a better rate.
But when that flows through to the end consumer obviously sometimes we give our commercial customers or our best customers get better pricing if there's competitive pressures in the market.
So we look to estimate what is the net amount of that benefit that we negotiated.
So what we're trying to do is give you both sides of the entry but that's how we think about gross and net.
Yes.
Mike let me add.
Part -- Seth part of that too when we say there's price harmonization in order to get all the product on the same product platforms same SKU same brand coming into the acquisition we knew that in parts of the CARQUEST acquisition the price was high.
You can see that through your own customer survey data.
So we're going through a process too where we're harmonizing the prices.
So when we have to take the price down you don't get the immediate benefit the next day.
So what happens is you end up pushing out in that 3-year window the velocity of the unit sales.
And in the immediate term to Mike's point we have more price harmonization this year than last year.
We'll see some of that headwind this year.
The benefit tends to show up in year 3 and year 4 and even somewhat later this year as you get more unit sales on that product.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Yes that's really helpful.
Just in terms on the buckets of where your cost synergies are coming from product synergies being a big one can you maybe elaborate on where you think you are relative to your initial plan on some of the buckets? Are you ahead or behind and how do you look at it going forward? Yes.
Seth this is Charles.
So the merchant teams have worked through most of the vendor negotiations around the new programs.
And now we're moving into the phase of actually changing overall the products to end up with that unified program both from a private label perspective and a national brand perspective.
And we're on track.
We had a forecast and we're delivering against that forecast.
As George talked about though as we move into the year 3 and year 4 what becomes synergy and run the business the teams continue to do the vendor negotiations we continue to drive our private label development.
We've got good capability there and we're going to be investing in the CARQUEST brand and we'll continue to see those benefits come through as we grow our scale.
And so I'm very comfortable that the teams are delivering against the overall expectations that we expect.
Yes Seth and I'll remind you we kind of talked about the synergies falling in 3 buckets: Purchasing scale and leverage and supply chain.
And Charles just talked about some of the merchandising ones.
And then I would also add in merchandising it's in the internal sourcing that shows up in our margin and then some of SG&amp;A buckets.
Obviously we're redoing a lot of our contracts.
We've got some supply optimization work in there.
So there's a number of things within our SG&amp;A opportunities now particularly in the G&amp;A lines as we now put these business together as we look at doing our office consolidation that has some benefits.
A lot of our discretionary expenses.
So those are some of the bigger buckets.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So they all appear to be on track with initial expectations but there's not a lot of variability between where they're running relative to your expectation? Yes I think we're very pleased they're all on track.
And in particular we've over-delivered on our purchasing synergies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question a follow-up on really a topic.
Just at product changeovers.
Can you give us an update on how far you are through the rollout of those and when you expect that process to be complete? Yes we think that the -- that's what we're calling the lift and replace.
So the key brand that we're adding into the portfolio we're about 20% of the way through.
We'll complete that by the early part of 2016.
The other part of the work is where we relabel.
So we have to get to a common part type.
And we'll be completed with that work by the end of Q2.
So we're on track in terms of the time lines that we set for ourselves in terms of the conversion both by DC and then the conversions that we're doing we're with dropping in new front room products into the CARQUEST stores so that we can get sales benefit in DIY.
And that's good opportunity for us and we've started those plans around conversions in the fourth quarter and we'll run that all the way through the end of 2015 and be complete with that process by the end of 2015.
The next question is from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I know you're -- the synergies are becoming blended with the base business.
But is there a relationship between the complexity of the phase of the integration? The potential amount of savings that can be realized from that phase? Basically what my questions is getting at is it sounds like you've baked into your outlook for this year that you are getting into more of the heavy lifting of the integration.
So maybe you've baked in some more conservatism.
So could there be some upside if it goes pretty well? Yes.
Michael here's the way I would explain it.
The easiest synergies that we can get are the ones that we can execute through the central office.
Negotiate it and work for vendors even some of the office consolidation work those are pretty straightforward.
Negotiating a truck lease contract is a straightforward synergy.
You are right that the harder ones are the ones that are going to be in our field.
So for example when we do consolidations and conversions and the like part of it is the customer's going to decide.
And we have many more team members that are going to decide what the benefit's going to be in terms of retention rate of sales.
Overall the velocity of sales after we convert and consolidate a store.
And I'll use the example of pricing too and price harmonization.
Mike highlighted it.
So when harmonize the prices across the entire CARQUEST Advance portfolio we are going to have a little bit of a window in there in terms of we've taken the price change and the unit sales.
The customer has to believe that's the new price and we have to sell against this new price and the units follow it.
So there tends to be a little more volatility as we're working through that change.
Same with product.
So as we replace some of the vendors that were core CARQUEST vendors over time and they're being replaced by another vendor it's going to take time for the customers to say I'm willing to take it.
Now we've seen in some markets we started in Canada with a key vendors of ours.
I mean the uptake was immediate.
We've had other places where the uptake has been okay.
And so the synergies number that's out there in terms of the volatility yes we're going to have more volatility this year than last year.
But overall what you should take away is that we're on pace and we have every confidence that that $160 million number net of some of those volatility is still fine.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And I guess this is kind of a follow-up to that.
As of now you have the largest scale in the industry and when all is said and done with the integration you're going to have amongst the most competitive capabilities.
So how long do you think it's going to take to close the comp performance gap with some of the peers in the industry? No Michael I think if you look at last year to this year there's 350 basis points of growth.
So we went from a streak of some negative quarters to 5 in a row positive quarters.
It's progress.
It gives us a foundation to build upon for this year.
We'd expect to see continued accelerations certainly off of what we did in 2014 going into 2015 and that's reflected in the outlook.
So I think competitively -- and again I think Mike mentioned it in his comments beginning in period 2 our comps are reflective of our entire organization which is a largely commercial organization now.
That's been our best business that's been our best trend.
So on balance if you look at 2014 to 2015 we restored comp sales growth but we accelerated within the commercial space in particular.
So I feel -- we're very optimistic in terms of our ability to drive comps going forward especially in the Commercial Business.
And George what I would add is we don't see any gap in the industry and our commercial comps.
We would -- we would say our commercial comps are every bit as good and in some areas better than the industry.
The challenge just to be blunt has been our DIY business.
And I said in my comments having that unevenness is unacceptable.
We have made investments this year in terms of our Speed Perks program and what we're doing at the store level to keep growing that business.
We've gotten better the last 2 years.
We've got to turn the corner on more consistency in our DIY business.
And that will close that gap besides the mix benefits that George has highlighted.
And we're doing it while managing an integration and we're doing it on 2 separate sets of systems and that's a reality that we're going to live with for several years as we work the integration.
So not only do I believe that we're able to close that gap and that we're delivering that from a commercial standpoint right now but I think we're doing it with a level of resiliency among our team that's going to strengthen us going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's extremely helpful.
If I could just have one last one on the cash flow outlook.
Mike maybe you could provide a little bit more detail on what's pushing up the CapEx this year and where do you expect the AP the inventory ratio to end the year at? Yes I'll do the second win first.
So our AP ratio if you remember when we combined our businesses together we were a little over 80% GPI was in the 50s.
When you combined them together it was probably closer to 70% when we started this journey.
We finished at the end of this year at 78.6%.
We're very pleased with the progress.
And we expect that to continue to climb next year.
We didn't give an exact number but we expect that to continue to climb.
And it's going to climb on 2 fronts: One is our merchant teams are doing a great job on continuing to improve our terms and we're going to do a better job on managing our inventory.
So both of those things impact our AP ratio.
In terms of the free cash flow cash expenditures the 3 biggest buckets are ones you've heard us say before.
We're going to continue to open more stores and that's 100 to 120 new branches next year inclusive of WORLDPAC.
We also have supply chain initiatives as we accelerate.
We're very pleased we're over 53% -- or 53% of our stores are on daily replenishment.
We're going to continue to accelerate that and that's where we'll be by the end of the year.
And then our IT systems.
There's considerable work in terms of systems work on integrating our -- whether it's POS systems backend systems but those are the 3 largest buckets.
And there was a little bit of timing this year.
Some of the capital -- we came in a little bit light in the capital on 2014.
Part of that was just timing as some of it moves in the 2015.
And you can think of that IT work as supporting the first two.
The consolidations conversions relocations new store openings as well as the supply chain work in particular.
So as we talk about building connectivity between CARQUEST and Advance Auto Parts DC a fair portion of that is IT-related work so it goes right back to supporting the supply chain strategy.
The next question is from Aram Rubinson with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So it sounds like we've diagnosed the issue as DIY and I guess I'm just hoping we can dive into a little bit more in terms of the treatment of it.
I know George you mentioned there was kind of proof points of progress maybe somebody else said something about labor scheduling.
Just wondering if we can kind of dig in to that DIY and see if and when it can turn this year.
I know the lifting is a little heavy going in but what are we doing to get that business right? I understand you're saying it's a source of disappointment but what's the fix? Yes thanks.
I heard a couple of things that I think will have an effect in our DIY business.
So I'll start off with our Speed Perks loyalty program.
It's something that we feel our field team needed.
It was a gap that we had and we now feel like we have the best in the industry.
So it is now rolled out in the majority of our stores.
We're seeing some very nice growth and it is clearly going to help us in terms of a bounce back effect of customers coming back to our stores as well as our ability to one-to-one marketing our customers.
Training was clearly a focus for us as well.
That began last year it continues into this year.
We have to convert at the counter and we have to convert with our car guy our primary heavy-duty DIY customer.
And then we have some natural benefits coming out of the CCR work.
If you think about the consolidations conversions relocations there is a DIY opportunity within some of these CARQUEST stores and businesses that we're pulling forward.
Aram the other thing is I think we have been off television now Charles for a couple of years.
You probably saw us right before the Super Bowl and then two we have significantly upped even our television spend in the [indiscernible] And we have been light in both of those channels at reaching customers in a couple of years.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up is just wondering about the earnings cadence is there anything kind of abnormal that they would kind of make any 1 or 2 quarters grow faster or slower than the house? And then I think you referenced 4 times how pleased you are to the start of 2015.
Is that because of fuel? Is that because of something else? And how pleased is pleased? I'll let George take this.
I don't think it's fuel.
I mean I think if you think about our industry the fuel benefit's not because of an increase in discretionary income it's because of an increase in miles driven on the road.
So I think we're a little early in the game in terms of seeing that mileage effect on vehicles.
And we're also pleased with our commercial growth and the capabilities.
And so I think there's some optimism.
The consumer sentiment obviously is positive with fuel prices.
And then in terms of the cadence of the year no there's not a lot I think Darren hit that earlier.
I think we're going to build throughout the year.
There's a little bit of things going with some of the field work that we've done.
George said that we're off to a good start with that team.
We're really proud of the work that that team has done and we couldn't be more pleased with how the teams are coming together from a cultural standpoint.
But we expect to it to build throughout the year.
It's going to be driven by commercial.
And as George said earlier we look to improve the choppiness in our DIY business.
Our final question today comes from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two this morning.
The first if you try to x out obviously the noise with the extra week and such it looks like the pace of expense growth moderated in the fourth quarter from the prior quarters.
I don't think synergies were a big part of that and I suspect that some of the store consolidations you have were a part of it.
But since we don't have kind of clean footage numbers anything you could talk to was about in terms of drivers of the more moderate expense growth relative to sales? Yes.
Thanks Matt.
Over the -- I think we've built some nice muscles in 2012 and 2013 in terms of our cost.
And we've got to do a lot more work on our cost.
But we were really proud of the teams.
I think the discretionary as Darren said business slowed a little bit.
We didn't get -- especially after Thanksgiving and the teams did a nice job pulling back on the larger discretionary expenses.
We had less travel we had less -- just a lot of the discretionary bucket.
The other thing that also impacts that number and we'll be anniversary-ing it obviously next year and we mentioned is the incentive compensation.
From a field perspective we paid out nice bonuses this year and we're always proud of that.
And that's our ultimate goal.
Obviously some of us at our corporate level have annual bonuses.
We always set higher expectations for us as a team and we had a little bit of incentive cost turn back that impacted the numbering and positively impacted our SG&amp;A.
And we would expect next year the incentive comps to more normalize.
That will be a little bit of a headwind in Q4 of next year.
But it was a -- it did help in SG&amp;A in our fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's terrific color.
My follow-up question relates to store consolidations.
You gave us guidance to your net openings for Advance and for WORLDPAC.
Can you tell us whether there are any additional closings that we need to contemplate within the CARQUEST the GPI organization more broadly for 2015? And then also to what degree is some of the benefit to comps from recapturing some of those sales factored into the outlook? Yes Matt.
Here's a way to think about it is that are we going to do more consolidations next year? Yes.
But during the first quarter of the year we've actually slowed those efforts to allow the teams to better work together in the field as we talked about our field organization.
We thought that's really important for our team members and our customers in terms of maintaining that consistency and building those rhythms that we talked about.
George he can probably talk about -- we probably won't get started until Q2 Q3 in the overall consolidation process and conversion process again for next year.
And I think the run rate that we've talked about when we get into the back half of the year is roughly 115 stores a quarter Matt.
And so I would say as we get to further conference calls to give you more color but we've made a decision that the most important thing in this first quarter of the year is to come out of this first quarter with a focus and consistency of how our teams are running their businesses after the reorganization and how they're focused on customer retention and growth and that consolidation effort will pick up more -- with more intensity as we get to the second quarter and back half of the year.
Yes.
Matt maybe a little bit more color.
I think you'll see a change in how we go about consolidations beginning this year.
The first 100 stores that we did just happened to be low-volume CARQUEST stores.
They were opportunistic they were a learning opportunity for us.
They weren't the best businesses that we're going to consolidate.
Those are actually ahead of us still.
Going into 2015 to Darren's point we'll ramp up during the course of the year and we'll establish a pretty good cadence of consolidation.
It will be by market.
So we'll go in and we'll for instance do the Dallas market the Houston market and complete them one major market at a time more in more of a wave approach as opposed to a fairly random one in 2014 that was really based upon the lower volume nature of the stores.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Thank you Wendy and thanks to our audience for participating in our fourth quarter conference call.
If you have additional questions please call me at (952) 715-5097.
Reporters please contact Shelly Whitaker at (540) 561-8452.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani VP of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results in typically used words such as believe anticipate expect intend will plan forecast outlook or estimate and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to exclude the impacts of costs in connection with the integration of General Parts International and B.W.P.
Distributors.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me on the call today is our President Sherman who will update you on our business operations including our integration activities; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer and Mike will update you on our financial performance.
Entering 2015 and year two of our integration we remain very confident in the growth earnings and service potential of this combination.
We are well positioned in the commercial business DIY import domestic independent and online channels with approximately 60% of our business in the fastest-growing commercial segment.
The 2015 enterprise priorities remain unchanged from 2014.
They are just to remind you relentlessly improving our base business execution and successfully delivering the year-two integration objectives.
We are building on last year's progress and continue to be confident that the steps we took positioned us well.
As a reminder the notable successes in 2014 included naming our go-forward leadership team aligning our cultures while improving our inventory availability principally through the cross-sourcing.
We also completed our supplier negotiations and defined our go-forward product brand structure.
We successfully entered Dallas leveraging the Carquest backbone.
And finally we delivered on the synergy and financial expectations for the year.
Through the first quarter of this year the cultural assimilation remains very strong.
The cross-sourcing availability continues to drive the business and the growth drivers principally with the Worldpac business the Canadian business and our Dallas markets are exceeding expectations.
In 2015 the required next step in the company's integration is the company's people processes systems and capabilities are to form a common foundation.
In addition to that aligning our systems and distribution work; this also includes moving to a common foundation for products pricing customer process support centers pay and benefits and the store and field leadership structure.
This significant work is underway and is an integral step into leveraging the full potential of this acquisition.
It will and has resulted in broad-based change a number of new learning curves and some temporary disruptions to our business.
We completed critical integration deliverables in the quarter and expected some impact to the business; however the degree of impact on the base business honestly was greater than we anticipated.
Consequently our first quarter performance was lower than we expected.
Overall our sales grew 2.3% to just over $3 billion.
The comparable sales were up 0.7% led by commercial growth with our DIY business declining modestly.
Earnings per share on a comparable basis grew 6.2% in the quarter on top of last year's 35.5% growth.
Now our industry fundamentals remain positive including vehicles in operation gas prices miles-driven and steadily improving economy.
The industry benefits are not equally distributed across the country.
Specifically our northeastern and upper Midwest markets meaningfully underperformed our expectations in Q1 principally driven by weather and some of the West Coast port slowdown.
Despite the integration workload and some weather-impacted areas we have continued to grow our sales and our profits.
The integration efforts I referenced earlier had a larger impact on our core commercial business in the quarter as it experienced a sequential slowdown from Q4 of last year.
Our commercial business has been consistently performing at the high end or above the high end of the market growth of 3% to 5%.
In our first quarter we were closer to the low end of that range.
Our sales and operations teams are intensely focused on leading the business and our customers through these changes to get this part of our business back in rhythm and we will.
Our fourth quarter call I outlined five key integration priorities that we were focused on this year.
Later George will provide more details and a status update shortly.
Together these five key priorities support the overarching objective of aligning the two companies to a common foundation.
This significant just table stakes work is required in order to minimize the confusion with customers and position the combined company to operate more efficiently and ultimately generate the highest value from this combination.
As a company we made a decision to drive key integration activities aggressively from the start.
We believe moving faster with things like the organization and product integration will get us to a desired end state and the results sooner than a piecemeal approach.
I previously noted that our 2015 integration priorities were entering a more complex phase as I called it.
Certainly it is expected given we are undertaking the largest and most diversified integration project in the industry's history.
Although the core business integration work is driving change in short-term volatility in the base business this volatility will pass and the long-term potential remains strong.
I will conclude my prepared remarks by reiterating our ongoing confidence and the potential of the combined businesses and the opportunity to grow the company in the long term in size and scale and achieve our next target of 12% comparable operating margins by the end of 2017.
Last year we focused on executing our integration plan with few unforeseen challenges.
A year later the long-term potential remains the same and we are encountering impacts of change from the integration.
It is a reminder that neither results nor change unfold in a linear fashion.
While results this quarter did not meet our high expectations we expect the business to steadily improve which is the case so far in the second quarter.
Q1 was a new high point of integration change and we expect to start seeing our team settling into a sales and operating rhythms going forward.
We also remain grounded that we still have sizable amount of integration work ahead of us and we continue to expect some unevenness in the business this year.
In consideration of this Mike will review this with you and also provide you with a revised annual outlook.
I want to finish by sincerely thanking our 74 000 team members for their remarkable commitment in supporting the changes to position our business for an outstanding future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Sherman our President.
George? Thanks Darren.
Good morning everyone.
First I too would like to thank all of our team members for their contribution to customer service in the quarter and putting their focus and energy into meeting our customer commitments while stretching to complete many of our integration tasks.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide commentary on our first quarter base business performance together with a progress update on our integration priorities.
As we mentioned in the past Advance is on a path of continuous improvement and consistent execution and we've made tangible progress.
However when you layer on the integration that touches many parts of the organization and namely customer facing parts such as our field and sales teams it's clearly not business as usual.
The multiyear integration plan will have a few peaks and Q1 was at a high point with many simultaneous work streams being executed.
We expected our business would see some impact.
However it was more than we anticipated and led to sales outcomes that were below what we expect and aspire to deliver with a comp of 0.7%.
I'll discuss the integration impact and status in more detail (10:42).
Turning to our commercial business.
As Darren mentioned our core commercial business faced the most change and experienced the greatest amount of variability.
The overall industry is benefiting from the macro benefits improving consumer confidence and those are all net positives.
Offsetting the industry tailwinds beyond the integration was weather impact we experienced in our core markets as we continued with high degrees of sales variability and lost sales days due to weather-related store closures.
With respect to our key customer segment our TECH-NET commercial partnership programs are designed to help our customers improve their service and grow their business.
We grew our TECH-NET program in the quarter high single digits year-over-year and now have over 6 500 members.
Additionally the vast majority of our strategic account business also grew at close to the same rate.
Our BUD penetration continues to be a strategic priority and we continued our progress with meaningful growth in the quarter.
Turning to our DIY business.
In 2015 we expect to improve our DIY business underpinned by three initiatives.
First our Speed Perks loyalty program.
We've rolled that program out to all Advance stores with the Carquest stores scheduled to receive it by approximately the end of Q2.
The objective this year is about achieving scale through member acquisition.
That translates to a year-end target of about 10 million members.
We are on pace with over 4 million members at the end of Q1.
The early indicators relative to increased frequency and basket size improvement from members in Q1 are meeting our expectations.
The second initiative is renewed emphasis in investments and marketing toward DIY customers with focus on the heavy DIY'er or the car guy.
We like what we're seeing with our initial customer response with sustained awareness from advertising ramps over time and we're tracking results closely.
Lastly we continue to invest in our store team members through training initiatives that deliver a great customer experience.
We're also working to improve the consistency and simplification of our DIY marketing and how it shows up in our stores to make the customer experience simple and clear.
Overall I'm satisfied with the progress we made in Q1 with DIY and the steps we're taking against our objective.
Turning to our integration.
We are now into the second full year of integrating General Parts.
This year is focused on aligning to a common foundation.
The integration activities put pressure on the core capacity of the business in the quarter and we expected that to be the case.
And frankly it's the only way to move forward and get the teams through the change as quickly as possible and stay focused on the end-state outcomes.
With that in mind I'd like to share a status update with you on the core integration activities we're undertaking this year stratified across five focus areas.
First our Store Support Center consolidation is essentially complete.
During the second half of last year and for the first quarter we've made the required decisions and worked through the changes to ensure we have all team members operating in their go-forward roles by the end of Q1.
The team members moving between Roanoke to Raleigh will be fully complete after the school year and the Minnesota office is set to close in July.
It was important to get all this done so new team members can begin ramping up the required learning curves as quickly as possible and improving operational execution throughout the year.
Second our field operations and sales team integration is complete.
In Q1 we integrated our field teams across 33 regions in order to build a structure with singular leadership across both brands.
We consider this work absolutely essential and a part of the integration that we needed to address with speed and conviction.
Our history with acquisitions tells us that unifying teams with aligned goals career tracks and rewards allows team members certainty in their role in the go-forward organization.
The cultural overlay between our teams has been positive from the start and that certainly continues.
Restructuring our field sales teams is something we needed to do both for our team and our customers.
And aligned sales team prevents redundant sales calls and shows an aligned face to our business across the Advance and Carquest brands.
As with any field structure change of that magnitude we experienced disruptions both internally in changing reporting structures and externally from sales reps and the customer relationships shifts.
We're now emerging from the high point of the learning curve and the focus is now back squarely on sustainable performance rhythms.
Third now turning to our consolidation conversion and relocation work.
When we updated you last we have completed our early consolidation program for the first 100 stores which were predominantly those lowest performing stores in the chain.
In the quarter we converted the stores served by our Dallas Distribution Center which includes the Dallas and Houston markets.
We are very pleased with the team member customer and financial results.
What is most rewarding is the ability to be successful with these conversions in a market that is so highly competitive.
We'll next be executing this program in stores served by three distribution centers in Q2 in Salt Lake City San Antonio and Bangor Maine.
This next wave is approximately 70 stores.
In the back half of 2015 we expect to move at a run rate of 110 stores to 115 stores consolidated or converted per quarter starting in Q3.
The program is projected to run until mid-2017 when the Carquest chain will be fully converted.
Overall we continue to be on schedule with our plan.
Notably unlike retail store conversions which can be simple for both customers and our team members our conversions and consolidations impact how our commercial customer does business day to day.
The consolidations affect commercial customers differently and require more effort and agility around the process to make sure we are not only executing the mechanics of the transition but retain the customers through the process and getting them quickly back to normal operating routines.
We also successfully completed the consolidation of approximately 40 Autopart International stores in Florida in Q1 (16:49) the acquisition process to drive more efficiency and better profit outcomes.
These consolidations have gone well and we're very pleased with the sales and profit performance.
The fourth priority is our product changeovers.
We began the work in late Q4 of aligning the products the brands and the pricing between the Carquest and Advance stores.
This program has two components: product re-labels and product replacement.
We've completed 90% of our re-label program as of the end of Q1.
This involve team member capacity and focus including independent store owners and distribution center team members touching over 20 million pieces of merchandise.
We also completed the additional phases of replacing complete product lines.
That's more difficult work since it involves sweeping product back to a central facility setting new planograms and bringing in the new product.
That requires execution at the supplier supply chain and store levels that is inherently more complicated.
In pursuit of building the best house of brands in the industry it also involve teaching our teams to sell brands they may have competed with in the past.
Additionally we continue price alignment work between brands and have aligned approximately 80% of product pricing to commercial customers between Carquest and Advance stores.
The outcome is to have one consistent set of prices in all stores across the chain.
Naturally we have some customer reaction as we move pricing.
Certainly in the cases where we lower pricing that impact is immediate.
Getting the required increase in unit velocity that's needed to compensate for the price decrease is not.
We've been satisfied with the overall outcome and while it's likely had a negative impact on both our comps and earnings in the quarter we know this work positions us correctly in the market for the long term and it had to be done.
Our fifth key priority focus is on our systems and supply chain integration efforts.
Looking at systems first.
We have completed a significant amount of due diligence on what is understandably a complex part of this integration.
The complexity arises largely from three areas: first migrating and rationalizing the two sets of enterprise systems over to one go-forward platform; second continue with the Carquest legacy systems; and finally whenever you bring a set of systems that were designed for a private company under a public company umbrella it requires additional work to get the systems the same place as Advance is from a functionality and compliance standpoint.
We're taking a measured approach to this complex work ensuring that we focus on high-value areas for our team and customer first.
Last year we were able to complete several systems projects as planned to support the product changeover work store conversion work our organization conversion work and financial compliance requirements.
The next phase of our work is focused on getting the Carquest stores Advance stores and both e-commerce platforms on to a common Carquest-based product catalog.
This is the most valuable element of customer experience and is the value-creating element of the store system by allowing Advance to offer the industry's deepest catalog.
We're doing the back-end work this year and expect to migrate the change to that common catalog in 2016.
The third major segment of systems integration is the work of connecting the Carquest and Advance distribution centers and stores systems into one integrated supply chain.
That work is also well underway and we expect to begin the process of converting the supply chains in the middle of next year.
Concurrent with the systems work is our ongoing expansion of daily delivery in the legacy Advance network.
At the end of the quarter we have 700 Advance stores being serviced daily.
We expect to have approximately 1 000 Advance stores being serviced daily by the end of the year.
Our best estimate today is we'll be nearing completion of the entire chain on daily delivery by the end of 2017.
Once the supply chain systems work is completed we can then finish the consolidation of the back end financial systems.
By definition that'll occur last.
And at this point we expect to be able to complete that work in late 2017.
Lastly before I close I'd like to take a moment to share some insights as we focus on pushing forward our growth agenda as a combined company.
A few comments on the major ones.
Worldpac continues to execute its growth plan at or above expectations and we continue to invest in that business and its growth including the planned opening of 12 new branches this year.
Carquest Canada completed the majority of the product changes last year and had no field organizational integration activities and is now driving solid double-digit growth in local currency for the Carquest Canada business.
Finally while not the core focus of the acquisition we see solid DIY growth in stores where we installed the Advance DIY capabilities as part of the store conversions.
In closing what I'd like to convey is that we are in the midst of an operationally taxing integration year and while there have been some challenges some more than we anticipated and others that we've yet to tackle those challenges are simply part of this process and should not be interpreted in any other way.
The parts of our organization that are not in the midst of integration change are delivering with strength.
We remain absolutely confident in executing against the plan and by the future we see for our company as we work to integrating this acquisition and positioning Advance for growth and industry leadership.
While I've gone into detail to give you a better context on what some of the challenges around the integration look like make no mistake we are moving forward every day and are absolutely confident in our ability to execute this work while building upon our core business.
Despite facing the toughest quarter of integration we grew sales for the sixth quarter in a row.
As aspects of the integration move to complete status where we see a majority of certain tasks behind us there will certainly be a sustained period of execution focus to ensure that we maximize the value of the work that we've done and continue to emerge as a top commercial competitor.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by thanking all of our talented team members for their commitment to serving our customers during the quarter while also navigating the change driven by our integration efforts.
In my remarks today I plan to review the financial highlights from our first quarter of 2015 and provide some insights on the remainder of the year.
As a reminder and unless otherwise specified Advance will present its financials and supporting commentary on a consolidated enterprise basis and would also discuss results on a comparable basis which excludes the impacts of one-time integration expenses and amortization of intangible assets both related to the acquisition of General Parts.
Our financial results were below our expectation in our first quarter of 2015 primarily driven by our integration activities.
We expected the heavier integration efforts to impact our financial performance in 2015.
However the combination of both the volume of change and the areas of the business that were impacted had a greater financial impact than we anticipated at the beginning of the year.
The changes had the most impact on our commercial sales.
Despite the softness we were able to grow our profit rate and deliver on our synergy expectations.
We are confident that we will work through the required operational phases of our integration and deliver the compelling financial value of our combination with GPI.
Turning to sales.
Our first quarter net sales increased 2.3% to $3.04 billion compared to our first quarter of 2014.
This sales growth was principally driven by the addition of new stores our comparable store sales increase of 0.7% which was led by the growth of our commercial business a 40 basis point sequential improvement in our DIY business from Q4 2014 offset by a net 21 basis point foreign currency impact.
We also experienced more pronounced variability in our commercial sales where in some cases we saw greater than a 300 basis point gap in our commercial sales comps in places where we shifted customer relationships versus where we had no changes.
This variability is part of the change and we expect it to be short term.
Comp sales were also partially affected by unfavorable weather across some of our Great Lakes and Northeast markets.
As a reminder General Parts company-owned locations are included in our comp sales calculation beginning in February 2015.
Sales to our independent customers are not part of our comp calculation.
Turning to gross profit.
Our gross profit rate dollars in the first quarter increased 3% to $1.39 billion from $1.35 billion in our first quarter of 2014.
Our gross profit rate of 45.9% was up 31 basis points compared to first quarter of 2014.
This year-over-year rate increase was due to 45 basis points of achieved merchandise cost synergies partially offset by cost from our new Hartford Connecticut DC that opened in late 2014.
Turning to SG&amp;A.
Our comparable SG&amp;A rate was 35.7% in the quarter which improved 26 basis points compared to our first quarter of 2014.
This year-over-year improvement was the result of achieved cost synergies and lower incentive compensation partially offset by slightly higher advertising expenses related to our DIY business.
All in first quarter comparable cash EPS was $2.39 up 6.2% on top of last year's 35.5%.
As a reminder in our first quarter last year we had a $0.05 EPS impact in one-time favorable tax audit settlements.
Our first quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 8.4% to $308.3 million and our operating income rate increased 57 basis points over the same period last year to 10.1%.
Included in our operating income was $24 million in net incremental acquisition synergies.
We are pleased that we continue to deliver against our synergy expectations.
Operating cash flow increased approximately 26% to $102.2 million in the first quarter versus $81.1 million during the same period last year.
Free cash flow increased to $45.2 million in the first quarter versus $20.6 million during the same period last year.
Our AP ratio for the quarter was 76.5% versus 75.9% last year.
At the end of the first quarter we had roughly $1.61 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt-to-EBITDAR was 2.7 times.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $26.6 million of debt and are progressing as planned to pay down debt with our free cash flow to get back below the 2.5 times leverage ratio and maintain our investment grade ratings.
We continue to measure the performance of our business and prioritize our investments to achieve growth profit and value creation.
Our growth engine is our commercial business which is driven by the growth of new and existing customers.
We also see a opportunity to organically grow stores to over 6 000 locations which include doubling the size of Worldpac and growing our independent business.
Additionally we expect our loyalty program which targets the heavy DIY'er will drive more consistent DIY comp performance through increased frequency and a stronger sales mix of hard parts.
Turning to profit.
We see an opportunity to grow our comparable operating income rate to 12% by the end of 2017.
As context our combined post-acquisition comparable operating income rate was 9.1% reflecting the acquisition of a lower-margin commercial-heavy business.
In 2014 through improvements and operational execution together with our achieved year-one synergies we closed out our first year as a combined company with an operating income rate of 9.9% which was approximately 80 basis point improvement from the post-acquisition starting point.
This puts us on track against our next profit objective of achieving a 12% rate.
This is realistic given it considers the rebalancing of the gross margin profile of our now more commercially weighted business that has a different commercial customer including national accounts government paint and an independent business.
Part of getting to 12% lies in delivering $160 million in cost synergies previously outlined and also includes modest profit rate improvements as we move to daily delivery optimize our current supply chain network and through our merchandising capabilities such as global sourcing.
We also must take approximately 100 basis points out of our cost structure as we transition to a lower gross margin commercial-weighted business.
The key drivers will be reducing our G&amp;A profile in our support centers lowering system costs as we eliminate duplicate systems as part of our integration efforts and reducing variability across our store portfolio in both profitability and productivity.
With respect to value creation the acquisition of GPI continues to provide us with a compelling opportunity to drive shareholder returns through incremental earnings and cash flow.
In addition to improving our operating performance an equally compelling opportunity exists with our balance sheet.
We expect to deliver measurable working capital benefits from our supply chain and IT systems integration work driven principally through our daily replenishment expansion optimizing our combined supply chain network and moving to one set of systems and processes.
The outcome of this work will result in a lower inventory investment with greater SKU availability along with continued progress on our vendor terms both of which will show up in an improved AP ratio.
Also we're on pace to get back to our targeted level of 2.5 times and maintain our investment grade ratings.
Once achieved we will revert back to our previous capital allocation strategies to drive shareholder value which includes investing in our business and deploying our share buyback program.
Turning to the balance of the year.
We do expect to see continued short-term business volatility from our integration activities given these changes were sequenced throughout the first quarter and our teams were still working through the changes as we exited the quarter.
The duration of the change is difficult to predict given the reality that change takes time as there is an acceptance and learning curve our teams are working through.
It's prudent to build in the earnings miss we experienced in our first quarter and factor in some continued integration headwinds into our results primarily impacting our commercial sales.
We now expect our annual comparable store sales to be at the low end of the previously communicated low single-digits range.
As a result we are revising our full-year comparable cash EPS outlook down to $8.10 to $8.30.
As part of this outlook we expect our share count to be 73.7 million shares our tax rate to be in the range of 37.5% to 38% and our interest expense to be approximately $64 million.
We are confident in our team's ability to execute and our revised full-year outlook reflects our best view of the short-term change impacts from the integration.
Our 2015 synergy estimates remain unchanged at $45 million to $55 million for the full year.
In closing our first quarter of 2015 was more challenging than we anticipated given the degree of change that impacted our teams from the integration.
That said these changes were required to move to one common foundation that will enable us to deliver the full potential of our combination with GPI and we are confident in our team's ability to navigate through this change.
We are also encouraged by the strong performance from those parts of the business that were not impacted by our integration work which shows we're on the right path.
I would like to finish by thanking our team members once again for their tremendous and tireless efforts in the first quarter and for what they do every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our company.
Operator we are ready for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Greg Melich with Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
I had a couple questions.
Mike I think you've mentioned synergies $24 million of net acquisition synergies.
Is that a cumulative figure including last year's first quarter or how should we think about that number? And then I had a follow-up.
That's an incremental number Greg.
If you remember last year we did a little bit over $8 million.
And this year we're a little bit over $32 million.
And that is a net number.
So we should think of the $24 million as being halfway through to the $45 million you expect for this year? Yeah.
The way to think about that Greg if you think about last year our synergies built.
So in the first half of the year last year we had about 30% of our synergies and they've built throughout the year.
This year it's going to be the opposite – it's going to be the flip roughly 75% of our synergies will happen in the first half of the year and then the last 25% just because they'll be annualizing the bigger numbers from last year.
Got it.
And then second question is could you remind us how many distribution centers you now have for each business or now it's one business but how we started with GPI and Advance? And how the plan of integrating these and how many you expect to have as you move forward on that integration? Yeah Greg.
Good morning.
So in total we're at 44 centers today.
We've completed a logistics network study that's going to inform us on where we're going to end up from an integration perspective.
Where we are on the journey right now is we are going to do a significant amount of upgrade work on a large number of the Carquest DCs to prepare the capacity for the expansion of our conversions.
And in the second quarter we'll be in a position to start announcing where we're going to be with (35:21).
We obviously have a lot of work to do in different markets and that's when we'll come back and give you greater insights in terms of total count.
So this year is about fixing up the ones we have to make them as optimal and then we decide which ones to close next year? Is that a fair way to think about it? That's exactly right.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll let someone else have a shot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lasser with UBS.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
As you get into some of these more complex marketing integration are you finding anything that's changing your longer-term view or causing you to change direction? So perhaps you're realizing that some of the systems from either legacy organization just may not be up to speed and you're going to go through a big change in management process anyways so why not take this as an opportunity to bring everything up to the state-of-the-art? Michael good morning.
It's George.
I'll start with that one and turn it over to Bill Carter who is running our integration.
We are very committed to powering through the conversions and the consolidations.
And I think if you look at conversions as a starting point that's relatively straightforward work.
We've done it in the past.
We have a core competency around it.
We like the DIY outcome that has come with much of that work.
The consolidations are inherently more complicated.
But again I think with the BWP acquisition we learned how to do a consolidation quite well.
A little bit more taxing a little bit more time-consuming but we have to keep on working through this.
We've not seen anything that would cause us to dramatically change any of the schedules.
Business Development and Integration</span></strong> That's correct both from a store standpoint and a product standpoint.
You heard George mention the progress we're making and we continue to be on track.
I think the second part of your question is are you learning stuff through the integration that's causing you to change.
I'd say we learn every week we learn every month and we make tweaks.
We're not radically changing the long-term integration plan by any stretch of the imagination but we continue to improve it over time.
One example that George mentioned on the call is we recognize the value of giving to our common catalogs sooner rather than later.
So that our availability across the network can be similar across platforms.
So we're prioritizing that as something that's a value-creating engine for the team member and the customer.
And that was a learning that we probably had three or four months ago as we were doing our due diligence and have adjusted accordingly.
To prioritize that is something we're bringing to the front from a value creation and common foundation standpoint.
I'd also say Michael that we're not changing the process but we're certainly iterating the process.
So every consolidation we get a bit better.
So for instance if a Carquest store is moving into an Advance store and that base of business that they're bringing along with them require some parts that were not in the assortment of the Advance store we're being more expeditious in moving that over.
Business Development and Integration</span></strong> Correct.
Yeah.
Maybe last case.
Michael your last question is why not get everything to state-of-the-art.
That would be hard.
But there will be a handful of things that will be state-of-the-art by 2017.
Our catalog will be state-of-the-art by 2017 and we'll start to experience some of those benefits as early as the beginning of next year.
Our supply chain in terms of daily replenishment by the end of 2017 will – the 5x delivery across the nation will be state-of-the-art.
So there's more examples.
So we're trying to balance this as George said in terms of the team's ability to kind of work through the change things that we have to power through versus piecemeal and we're keeping an eye on the things that are critical to the customer relationship that should be state-of-the-art by the time we get through this in 2017.
Okay.
That's super helpful.
And I guess what we're all trying to figure out is just – with all the pieces you have in place and what you're learning there's nothing that suggest that you won't be able to close the – or at least narrow the margin gap that AAP currently have with some of its peers over time.
So there's nothing that's really changing in the longer term? And then as part of that when should we expect that – some of the recent integration hiccups are going to be less impactful and the business will perform more in line with the market? Thank you so much.
Hey Michael.
It's George again.
I don't think we see anything that would cause us to change any margin expectations.
As far as the work and what's behind us and what's ahead I tried to give some detail on this and I'll give a bit more.
I think if you look at the actual work that's been done we've tried to move to a common foundation between the two companies and we see that – we mean product brand alignment pricing process getting the store support centers consolidated getting our store leadership teams consolidated in the field and then beginning some of the early consolidation conversion and relocation work.
If you look at that I think the product label part of this is largely behind us.
So again that was very physically intensive.
It's touching 20 million pieces of merchandise and it's essentially close to done.
So we're emerging there.
If you look at the product replacement that work is still ahead of us category by category.
As far as pricing we're nearly complete.
Most of the pricing unification has happened and it certainly has in the major product lines.
I call the work ahead of us some of the clean-up work odds and ends but the major lines have now been changed.
That's a big change for us.
If you're in the field and you're working with customers and the pricing is different between an Advance store and a Carquest store and you're beginning to bring your customer base together that leads to questions obviously on why someone is getting a lower price than someone else.
And then I think when the work is done as you can imagine one of two things has to happen.
If we raise price it's holding line on unit velocity.
And then if we lower prices it is getting the unit lift that we need to pay back for the pricing investment that we make.
So we're making progress there.
And I think we're emerging from that portion of it as well.
The support centers are – the work is done.
Now bringing the teams up to speed ramping them up in terms of just their handle on their new positions remain something that takes a bit of time.
But I think those major elements are behind us.
The product lift is still ahead no question about that.
There'll be some more work around that.
A little bit of pricing work needs to be done yet.
And then obviously the conversions consolidations will go on for well over a year and a half two years.
This was helpful.
Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Seth Basham with Wedbush Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
My first question is around the cadence of the impact from some of the integration changes that you're making.
I understand that they're temporary and primarily in Q1.
But as you've gone through the first month of the second quarter have you seen the impact lessen? And does that give you confidence that you'll be able to hit your new targets for 2015? Yes Seth.
It does.
And I think there are markets where either the change has been limited or the change has abated.
If you look at our Canadian business again they did this work last year.
Their product replacement is well behind them they've activated on it and they're running nice solid double-digit results in local currency.
If you look at Autopart International business they've been protected from most of this change and are continuing to run very nice growth.
Worldpac is just growing and is completely isolated from this change and is running nice single-digit growth.
Where we went into Dallas/Fort Worth on the go-forward systems we have seen very good results in a very competitive market where we've begun to – where we did the work early and Seth we did the BWP work well ahead of this.
That was the biggest concentration of Carquest business in the Northeast.
So much of that work is behind us and we like the way that we've emerged into Q2 with our Northeastern business and the intensity of the change of management is far less of a factor there.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
So the earnings revision for the year is primarily related to the miss in the first quarter as well as some pressure in the second quarter with very little change to the second half vision? Yeah that's a way to think about it.
It's always – I think George really articulated well.
All those things didn't happen at the same time in the first quarter.
So some of the change happened throughout the quarter so we're still navigating through the change.
So I think that's a way to think about it Seth.
It's always difficult to predict the exact level of change and the learning curve that the teams are going through but a way to think about the outlook is we've built in the miss in the first quarter.
We have lowered our sales for the balance of the year.
We went to the low end of our previous range.
If you think of a low-single digits in kind that 1% to 3% range we think we're going to be in the low end of the range and I think that reflects what you just shared.
So that's kind of how we thought about (44:54) But I would look at the change as is it the product brand work? Is it the pricing work? Is it the process work? Is it the corporate work? And I think it's an amalgamation.
It's all those things.
And as I said some of that is behind us now.
So we see this abating during the course of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Very helpful.
Last question for me.
The DIY business it seems like you made some progress there.
Can you comment as to whether or not the comps in DIY were stronger in the first quarter than the fourth quarter? Yeah.
We said they sequentially improved 40 basis points Seth.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I missed that.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
Two quick questions.
I'll ask them both up at once.
First of all as you think about the impact of the loyalty program you spoke about its impact on sales.
Can you talk about how that tends to impact margin and how you expect the margin impact to progress as that program ramps? And then secondly if you could just update us if you haven't already done so on the sales impact on the sales recapture rate that you're seeing as you close as you continue to consolidate some stores.
Yeah Matthew sorry go ahead.
Yeah Matt let me start off with the Speed Perks program and then Charles Tyson will add some comments as well.
I think we've been satisfied with every aspect of Speed Perks.
They have a membership of well over 4 million here early in Q2 and 4 million at the end of Q1.
We think that we're on with something pretty good here.
We think that the program is distinctive and is the best in the industry.
It has been a win for us in terms of all the financial fundamentals.
The sales lift has been good the transaction growth has been good we're seeing a bounce-back effect.
And as you think about – understand that sales work – is there just to make sure that we model it correctly.
Is there some give back on gross margin? Obviously the gross profit dollars have to be doing well for you to like what you see.
But does the margin rate come down and does that build or is there a cadence to that? Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> Yeah.
Matthew its Charles.
Yeah there is an impact from a gross margin rate.
Obviously the impact on sales and the growth we're seeing from that customer segment that have joined the Speed Perks program has a very positive gross margin dollar impact.
So from a pro forma perspective when we piloted this we are exceeding our expectations from the pro forma that we set for ourselves for this year.
Great.
Business Development and Integration</span></strong> And Matt just this is Bill.
Just to answer the question on the consolidation results.
As George mentioned in his comments we completed the early consolidation program as of the end of last year.
That was focused on the 100 lowest-performing low-profit stores of Carquest.
We are pleased with those profit and sales results from those.
And we recaptured about 60% to 80% of the revenue that was associated in those Carquest stores obviously some variability based on markets and how well we executed.
As we move into the broader consolidations associated with the market conversion plan that George outlined we expect consolidation performance to improve and be at the higher end of that range versus the lower end of that range as we work with programs that are bigger and stronger in nature to start with and we do more meticulous planning of the customer transitions as part of the larger consolidations.
So that's where we're performing at this point.
Thank you so much.
And just as a reminder sorry Bill 60% to 80% is in the commercial part of the business.
And holistically if you include DIY I understand that DIY is kind of tiny for those for certainly the Carquest stores you're closing.
Yeah.
It's not a meaningful figure.
It generally disperses.
And especially for those it absolutely disperses.
So it wouldn't change that number appreciably.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Higginbotham with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping to get a little more color on what really surprised you in your integration process.
Was it really that things were taking longer or were just tougher to execute or was there a piece of there being a sharper reaction if you will from your customer base? And one thing I'm trying to get at is to the extent that you lost some share through these changes do you expect to get that back call it immediately once you're done with those changes or you think you'll have to work harder if you will to win that business back? Yeah it's George.
I'll start off with that and ask Bill Carter to make some comments as well.
I think if you look at the work again I think if there's something that made an impression it would be the cumulative effect.
I don't think there's any one aspect of it that was more complicated than what we thought and I think we're well in control of every aspect of the integration.
It's hard work.
I would call the combination the one that has made things a bit more complicated.
A lot of things falling into place at the same time pricing changes product changes.
Any time we do a product replacement you're relying on execution at multiple levels including the suppliers.
We've had a couple of instances where it hasn't been the best first impression of a new part coming onboard because of the in-stock condition at the time.
I think when you look at the pricing work again it's a multi-phase challenge.
It's not just getting the pricing unified; it's getting the activation around that new price once it's done.
And that takes time getting the sales team out there into the shop to communicate that.
So it's no one single thing; it's the combination of all of them landing at the same time.
Business Development and Integration</span></strong> It's the combination of the to answer your question specifically Robert nothing took longer than we expected.
I think it was just tougher when it all added up in Q1 change for our team and as George mentioned change due to some of the product and pricing changes that the team and the customer worked through.
So it was more of an amalgamation of them than any particular things sticking out as a surprise.
Inc.</span></strong> And on the customer reaction.
Parts of it were terrific.
So if I can go back to the cultural overlay and the field alignment we asked our teams to go to 33 regions across the country and we combined (51:17) of our regional vice presidents come from Carquest some of them come from Advance.
They initially spoke a bit of a different language in terms of how they focus around the business and that one quarter later has meshed together very very well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And in terms of winning back some of the business I mean granted you're still growing commercial but winning back some of the share that you presumably lost do you expect that to happen kind of automatically or will you have to do something incremental to get that back? I think while some of the change has been tough and let's talk about the product brand alignment.
Uniformly we like where we're going.
So when the work is done and when the work is behind us and we have this new house of brands that we think is terrific our team is behind it our customer is behind it and we're very confident that we'll win back.
Business Development and Integration</span></strong> And we've experienced this in previous integrations when we did BWP and we had things disruptive.
This year it came back over time.
Within a year usually but not instantaneously.
It's not going to come back next week.
So we feel good about the recovery.
It definitely wasn't nearly as bad as what occurred in some of the previous ones.
But that share comes back.
We regain that share with customers and we do it over a reasonable period of time.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And my second question is really on your general pricing strategy.
Historically it seems like you've been pretty aggressive in the marketplace in commercial.
As you harmonize pricing is that a fair way of thinking about how you're currently going to market? Does price become less of a point of competition as you increase daily delivery and now have bigger muscle as a bigger enterprise? Yeah I think that's absolutely the case.
When we looked at the pricing continuum as you'd expect Advance was on the more competitive side and Carquest was on the higher side.
We struck a point where we felt it was the right pricing strategy for the kind of commercial business that we are going to emerge as and that we've become.
And that includes 5x delivery benefits.
That includes a lot of the commercial know-how coming from Carquest that includes the Carquest Training Institute that includes our TECH-NET programs banner programs that have come out of this partnership.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Wewer with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Can you talk about the perspective of your commercial customer what they saw differently from Advance and Carquest in the last quarter that resulted in the market share in your commercial channel I guess weakening a bit? Was it a disruption in your in-stock capabilities your ability to hotshot a part within 30 minutes? Was it a change in the salesmen covering their account? If you can give us some clarity on that.
Sure.
I'd be glad to and I'll kind of give it to you from the perspective of if you were a district manager for say Carquest and some of the change that's happening right now.
Those customers working with that team will have seen some product changes.
Clearly there have been changes in filters and in belts and in chassis and in gaskets and in batteries.
So brands that you've been used to selling for many years you're now in some cases selling a new one and in all cases going forward you will be.
So it's bringing the customer along on that journey and just showing and demonstrating the quality of the part and I'd start it off right there.
I think the pricing part of it has been an impact as well where there is some interim period of time where again in a market Carquest and Advance have two different prices.
And then we have a new one going forward.
So for those Carquest customers they're very often seeing lower pricing.
And again we have to activate and sell more when that happens but that's a change.
Some of the systems tend to change for our team along the way.
We try to make that as transparent as possible and protect our customers from change.
So from a B2B standpoint they're using the same systems that they always have.
So I think those are the major changes.
And we have changed some of our sales territories and that's another part of it where we did not want to have a customer have an Advance commercial account manager come knocking on the door and then the Carquest commercial account manager came knocking on the door 10 minutes later.
That appears to be disorganized and is confusing for the customer and we've changed that.
So we have built new sales territories with a single representative representing both brands in some cases.
But every customer has one commercial account manager only not multiple.
So in some cases it's a new phase; in others it's the same.
Inc.</span></strong> Just following up on the previous question I don't understand if a commercial is now let's say doing more business with O'Reilly or more business with NAPA and perhaps Advance or Carquest drop down the first call list.
If they're getting a good experience with your competitor why are they going to toggle back to Advance two or three quarters down the road? Well I think we'll have converted all of our brand work.
We'll have all of our availability in all of our brands lined up our pricing lined up.
I'll remind you some of those of relationships go back for years and years.
So there might be a period of time where part of our integration is showing up in a commercial shop but we've been with these folks for a long long time and that matters.
Yeah Dan.
This is Darren.
So part of the indicators I look at – because I think that's a fantastic question is that when we look at our strategic and national accounts our growth slowed a little bit in the quarter but you know what? The ones that had been leading the way continue to lead the way so whether that's CarMax or whether that's DriveTime or others we feel really good about that.
When I peer into the Carquest network their banner programs we grew that business in the quarter 7% so those tend to be some of the large bay installers and then we grew the TECH-NET customers specifically.
Now there's only 6 500 of them but we grew those double-digits in the quarter as well.
And those tend to be a leading indicator of the best relationships and we built up – or I should say the Carquest team has built up a lot of great equity in terms of those relationships.
Now we did see a little bit of a pullback on the Advance side to some of that weather always events out.
But I think when we move the sales people you know what? What happened is we are not able to give as much attention as we're going through the process and what we have to focus on and what we're monitoring is that quarter in and quarter out Mike talked about a 300 basis point volatility in terms of touching customers.
So each period we've seen that volatility come down a little bit.
And what is it? Is that we're touching customers again on a consistent basis.
And so that's how you win people back and then you augment it as we've said with getting the pricing right the product brands and the consistency.
Inc.</span></strong> And just a real quick question for Mike on your 12% operating margin goal for 2017 you talked about 100 basis points of cost reductions.
I guess that equates to about $100 million.
Is that going to be back-loaded primarily to 2017 or would you expect to achieve some of that $100 million savings either late this year or in 2016? Yeah.
The way to think about it Dan is we really started that once we put this acquisition together.
Our operating margins were at 9.1%.
Last year we did some work on our costs.
This year we're doing some work on the costs.
And I think you're right.
It will start to accelerate into next year and then we'll probably see the biggest change hit us in 2017.
I think we've talked about our cost before as we move to a lower cost lower commercial model.
We see opportunities at our support centers to take costs and make ourselves more efficient in those areas.
IT is an area as we get rid of duplicate systems.
It's a big opportunity.
And then as we improve the profitability and productivity and the variability across our store base.
So we think those are big opportunities and its work that – it will be very planful.
It will be very thoughtful.
And then part of also getting to 12% is keeping our sales going and growing the comps.
So that's another important dimension.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question today comes from Chris Horvers of JPMorgan.
Thanks and good morning.
So question asked – maybe asked prior but a little differently this time.
So I'm trying to dial in the impact of the integration impact on the Carquest commercial business versus the heritage AAP commercial.
On Carquest there was a lot of concern that the business had decelerated all year in 2014 and worries that something was breaking there on the integration.
And then heritage AAP commercial did very well last year.
So maybe can you share some insights on Carquest and the heritage AAP and maybe highlight regions that didn't have as much change impact and how those businesses performed and what the lift you're seeing from daily delivery in heritage AAP? Yeah.
I think if you look at Chris the change for the Carquest commercial business I highlight one thing the beneficiary of a pricing benefit.
So certainly we're seeing that happen and again that activation piece of getting the unit velocity back is not immediate.
So if you look at where that's happening more often than not lower pricing is happening in the Carquest network.
They're having to go catch up get the velocity to drive the dollars above where it was before.
There really aren't many markets in the country where there is change to Carquest.
The best indicator of that would be the BWP business.
And again as Bill said there is a trough initially but we certainly see ourselves come out of it and build upon the business.
In the 5x markets we've been very pleased with the lift and the most recent work that we've done was Lakeland Florida to get the North Florida on the daily delivery.
Very happy with our outcomes in Florida.
And then of course we have a new Hartford Connecticut facility that is at about 160 stores now and beginning to ramp up more and more bringing daily delivery to the Northeast.
And we're happy with those results too.
And especially the way that just recently with a lot of the change behind us in the Northeast that market we're pleased with.
So the daily delivery lift is basically as you've rolled more DCs and more stores it's been consistent with your prior experiences? Yeah.
That's correct.
Obviously as George said we've been very happy with the impact in our Lakeland facility.
And our team did a wonderful job in executing that without any interruption of service to our customers.
And we're beginning to see that flow through into our new Hartford facility.
And we will complete more of that work as we move through the year this year.
Yeah.
Probably the most the clearest example we have is what's going on in Canada right team? They went through a first littlest changed double-digit comps.
And all the competitive set's different but there are some pretty good competitors up there as well and the team is doing a great job.
Worldpac continues just it's a very nice business growing above our early expectations so they're doing a nice job.
And the BWP market certainly less change there and they're a leading indicator to yeah.
We just have to power through it.
And so we got to finish through the things we got to power through and we got to manage to the integration plan that we set out there.
And I'll also say that our Dallas/Fort Worth market opening has been a great example so we're very happy with the results in Dallas/Fort Worth and how we entered a new market.
And we used something close to what the go-forward model will look like.
We used the Carquest distribution center.
It is on daily delivery.
We opened up super hubs geographically spaced across the DFW Metroplex.
We've got a combined team.
There will be some change still in those markets.
It's not entirely on the go-forward plan but it opened up well and certainly we like the outcome there.
And so two quick follow-ups.
So A what did your – what was the first quarter earnings below your internal expectations? And B what do you attribute the improvement in the DIY business to because the compares are actually tougher.
So was this actually the loyalty card helping? Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll hit the first one and I'll let Darren get the second one.
I mean it's real simple.
It was on the top line.
We said it.
The change that George put through – discussed we believe those are shorter-term impacts.
They had an impact on our field teams.
And it impacted – and it primarily came through on our commercial sales.
So that was really our shortfall.
I think we were pleased with some of the things.
Really pleased with our synergy work and what we did there.
And so we're building momentum there but really it showed up on the commercial sales side.
On the DIY side I think the single biggest change was the Speed Perks program; again very happy with the membership base that's being built.
I'll also add that we changed our marketing strategy and you'll see a shift in our marketing mix more toward TV.
And on TV you'll see them in places where car guys tend to watch TV so a car-related show on Velocity TV a NASCAR broadcast and we're getting very very good feedback on that and I think it certainly highlights what's different about our loyalty program.
At this time I will turn the call back over to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Lisa and thanks to everyone for participating on our first quarter earnings conference call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes our call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts' Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's call.
This conference is being recorded.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Vice President of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I'd like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to exclude the impacts of costs in connection with the integration of General Parts International.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Now let me turn the call over to Darren Jackson our Chief Executive Officer.
Darren? Thanks Zaheed.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Joining me on the call today is our President George Sherman who will update you on our business operations including our integration activities; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer who will update you on our financial performance.
We are 18 months into our integration and our confidence in the growth earnings and service potential of this combination remains very strong.
The 2015 enterprise priorities continue to be improving our base business execution and successfully delivering the year-two integration objectives.
Through the first half of this year we have been focused on aligning our teams processes systems and capabilities to a common foundation.
Overall the base business execution and the integration remain on track and our results for the quarter were in line with expectations.
In the quarter our sales grew 1% to $2.37 billion.
The comparable sales were up 1% led by commercial with our DIY business sequentially improving.
Earnings per share on a comparable basis grew 9.1% in the quarter on top of last year's 30% growth.
Industry fundamentals continue to remain positive including vehicles in operation gas prices miles-driven and a steadily improving economy.
Regionally the results are not equally distributed across the country.
We saw solid performance in Canada the Northeast the Southeast including the Florida market.
Conversely our upper Midwest markets underperformed in the quarter principally driven by weather while our Puerto Rico market experienced softness as a result of the economic uncertainty.
Also our sales growth from our import-focused branches of Worldpac and Autopart International continued to deliver strong total results.
We continued to work through the five key integration priorities outlined on our previous calls.
George will provide more details and a status update shortly.
Overall I am pleased with the progress we made during the quarter with the integration activities.
As expected the integration work continues to have a more concentrated temporary impact on our core commercial business.
We are better balancing the extra demands resulting in a better Q2 performance.
In the second quarter our core AAP commercial business sequentially improved.
However our Carquest commercial sales continued to see some softness.
The volume of integration work will subside and we expect our commercial business will in time return to delivering comps consistently at the high end or above the high end of the market.
Our DIY business improved sequentially approaching flat for the quarter as the teams continued to execute our DIY initiatives.
In addition to the current demands of the business we experienced a fire in our Roanoke support center this quarter.
I want to recognize the teams for quickly re-establishing operations to ensure we did not experience any material downtime.
Overall our second quarter results were in line with our tempered expectations as we anticipated some carryover of the Q1 integration activities into this quarter.
That said the business improved steadily as our teams took additional steps towards settling into our sales and operating routines.
Looking at the back half we expect incremental progression in our business and will continue to meter our efforts to ensure our organization stays focused on serving our customers and delivering on our outcomes.
The key outcomes we measure success by are sales service and profit.
We continue to be aggressively focused on accelerating all three of these.
On our last call we outlined our target to deliver comparable operating profits of 12% by the end of 2017.
Now being well into a multi-year integration we have learned a lot.
The biggest takeaway is need to eliminate or simplify our work and deliver what matters most to our customers.
With this focus we see an opportunity to achieve 12% faster.
And have challenged ourselves now to get there by the end of 2016.
This is not about adding new things but rather pulling forward elements of the plan that were earmarked for 2017.
While achieving 12% is not a final destination or full potential of our business it is the next milestone.
I am confident our organization will deliver on this goal.
George and Mike will also provide more specifics and discuss our key initiatives during their remarks.
I want to finish by sincerely thanking our team members for their remarkable commitment in supporting the changes to position our business for an outstanding future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to George Sherman our President.
George? Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to echo Darren's comments and thank all our team members for their contribution to customer service in the quarter and putting their focus and energy in meeting our customer commitments.
With my prepared remarks this morning I'll provide commentary on our second quarter base business performance together with a progress update on our integration priorities.
Entering Q2 despite the heavier integration work we experienced sequential improvement in the business as our team has started selling into normal business rhythms.
While our comp of 1.3% in constant currency is not what we normally aspire to it is progression we expected from Q1.
We are nearly one period into our third quarter and I'm encouraged by the continued progress in our business.
Turning to our commercial business as Darren mentioned our core commercial business continues to face a larger proportion of integration-related change namely in people and products but showed steady improvement versus Q1.
There continue to be many encouraging signs including our Canadian comps growing double-digits in constant currency our strategic account growth and a continuing strong performance of our Texas market where we're utilizing key elements of our combined resources.
With respect to our key customer segments our TECHNET customer marketing program membership has grown to a record level of 7 000 members with overall sales growth continuing in the double digits year-to-date.
As the program has grown it's become clear that TECHNET could assist our customers not just with diagnostic support but with training marketing as well as a variety of programs to help them save money and grow their businesses.
TECHNET is also experiencing record program retention rates.
These results were a great example of the commercial sales team recruiting solid new members that find value in the program's marketing training business management and other key components of the program.
Turning to our DIY business the Speed Perks loyalty program continues to grow and we've now surpassed the 6 million member mark so about 60% of our 2015 member acquisition goal.
We couldn't be more pleased with this outcome.
We're beginning to build critical mass and have now also successfully integrated Speed Perks into our online shopping experience that will allow us to leverage the online channel to drive more members and provide customers with an online earn and redeem capability.
Speed Perks is central to our repositioning strategy to serve the heavy DIYer and the early results are encouraging.
For example from some of the data that we've analyzed from Q1 over 80% of identified customers joining are heavy DIYers so over indexing with both the right kind of customers as well as the right kind of parts with hard parts showing particular strength.
Turning to our integration we've now completed our second quarter of the heavier lifting aspects of the integration.
Our first quarter saw a high point of disruptions with a combination of a significant number of integration work streams.
While we continue to expect some level of integration related disruption throughout the year we saw decline in the disruption in Q2 and expect it will continue to moderate each subsequent quarter.
With that in mind I'd like to share a status update with you across the five key focus areas.
First our support center consolidation is virtually complete.
Our Minneapolis office is now closed and those team members moving to Raleigh have completed their moves.
Also the team member moves between Roanoke and Raleigh have also been substantially completed.
Second our field operations and sales teams are six months into their new roles or territories.
While there are certainly still regions of sales underperformance as teams continue to settle in we are generally pleased with the progress given the magnitude of the integration change.
The markets that experienced the most disruption are all improving in terms of sales strength.
Additionally the sales growth gap between customers that experienced a relationship change and those that did not continues to close.
Third turning to our store consolidation conversion and relocation work.
In the second quarter we successfully completed 68 store integration projects across three markets and those went as expected.
The back half of the year is slated for 200 total projects among conversions consolidations closures and relocations.
That's a slightly lower number than we indicated last quarter because we've shifted about 20 relocations into 2016 which enables us to avoid touching the store twice.
The program will continue to be executed by market and in Q3 we will complete three more markets.
Execution of these markets is already underway and initial indications are that performance will be similar to what we've seen to date.
The fourth priority is our product changeovers.
We've continued to execute the product and pricing alignment work.
The product relabel work is now largely complete.
On the replacement front we continue to replace product lines and expect to have this completed by late in the fourth quarter or early in Q1 of 2016.
Results from the product conversions continue to meet expectations as our customers tell us they are very happy with our lineup of brands.
Inevitably there are also some instances where we no longer carry certain brands which a few customers have been loyal to for years and we are actively engaged in retaining those customers or replacing their business.
Our commercial price alignment work is effectively complete.
As we discussed last quarter the price alignment positions us properly in the market.
And while the impact of price movement is immediate the fact is it will just take some time to drive sales in unit velocity to make up for the impact where we decreased prices.
All in our product and price alignment work continues to be on track.
Our fifth key priority focuses on our systems and supply chain integration efforts.
As mentioned previously we are focused on migrating to a common catalog and we are on pace with our development efforts.
We should be in pilot in Q1 of 2016 with a rollout to follow as we indicated last quarter.
This is also an enabler to aligning our supply chain systems and we remain on track to begin the integration of the Carquest in advanced DC networks by the middle of next year.
Turning now to our efforts to expand our daily delivery program.
At the end of the quarter we had 777 Advance Auto Parts stores being serviced daily an increase of 77 stores over the first quarter and that moves us closer to our yearend goal of 1 000 stores.
I'm pleased with our overall progress on this front.
Our focus on base business execution and successfully completing and leveraging the integration has our team focused on our next profitability goal of 12% comparable operating profit.
As Darren mentioned we are stepping up the target timeline from 2017 to 2016.
The acceleration is healthy because it requires action now to take things out of the business that are adding complexity and fragmenting the store teams' focus.
Intensifying and simplifying base business execution has several components but it starts with sales and that means consistently delivering on our sales and service objectives.
You've heard me talk about how we've been driving consistency into our sales execution and we've undertaken a range of initiatives to significantly improve our sales culture.
Moving from a corporate-led company to a field-focused organization simplifying our operations for those things that matter most to our customers and powering our field and store teams to make local decisions in service of the customer and moving the business from activity-based to outcomes-based.
Our steady climb to improving sales service and profits requires us to have a heightened focus on these activities while clearing obstacles to allow our field and store teams to stay focused on the delivery of the outcomes.
We continue to take actions toward making our business more cost efficient and accelerating our transition to a field-led organization.
Servicing the customer is the number one deliverable for our field and we need to provide our stores with the ability to make that happen without additional workload and distractions.
While well intended our corporate support center is pitching faster than our stores can catch.
Consequently in order to drive greater organizational effectiveness and in turn enhance our field focus we've made the tough but necessary decisions to cut non-essential work out of our corporate support center and have eliminated roles that were not considered core as we look to narrow the focus and reduce workload for our stores.
This work will be largely completed in August.
Additionally as part of our broader work to review our profitability across our store base we are looking at those stores that are chronic underperformers and take up a disproportionate amount of our field leaders' time.
It is not acceptable to have inefficient assets in the business that are consistently underperforming or unprofitable and candidly we'll have to make some difficult choices.
While our assessments are still ongoing we've made the initial decision to close a number of stores and Mike will provide further detail.
We will be continuing with our assessments and examining performance across our store base and where necessary adjusting our footprint accordingly.
Base business execution will in part be driven by supply chain capabilities a key driver of sales acceleration is inventory availability and having the right part at the right time.
We are enabling that through the expansion of our daily delivery program.
I provided you with an update earlier on how we are progressing on that front.
As savings offsets to our ongoing investment toward daily delivery expansion I've challenged the team to lean into initiatives that will simplify our supply chain structure but also improve the efficiency and take cost out of our overall supply chain capability.
We have also fortified our supply chain senior leadership team over the past year and are confident in our ability to execute against these priorities.
Finally in conjunction with our integration work we're looking to narrow our IT priorities to the vital few that drive the largest impact on our base business results.
We have a very experienced new CIO in place since December of 2014 and have invested the time to develop our future systems roadmap.
These are long-term components but also key near-term areas of focus and opportunities to drive greater efficiency from our IT program and enhance those core capabilities that our stores leverage to serve our customers.
In closing the first half of 2015 has certainly introduced challenges to our business some expected some unforeseen as we work through the complex phases of the largest integration in our industry.
Q2 was a step in the right direction as we focus on our base business acceleration in our commercial business and improving our DIY performance.
We are focused on execution and driving the key initiatives to achieve our 12% comparable operating profit goal by 2016 which has galvanized the organization and amplified the conviction we have to realize the full potential of this company.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George.
Good morning everyone.
I'd like to also start by thanking all of our talented team members for their commitment to serving our customers in our second quarter.
In my remarks today I plan to review the financial highlights from our second quarter share some details on our progress toward our 12% comparable operating profit target and provide insights on the remainder of the year.
Moving into our second quarter operating results we delivered comparable cash EPS of $2.27 which included $0.03 of unfavorable impact from foreign currency.
This was a 9.1% increase from our second quarter of 2014 and in line with our overall expectations.
Included in our comparable cash EPS was $14.1 million in incremental synergy realization.
On a GAAP basis our second quarter EPS was $2.03 which included $9.8 million of intangible asset amortization associated with the acquisition of General Parts and $18.6 million of one-time integration expenses primarily related to the integration of General Parts.
Turning to sales.
Our second quarter net sales increased 1% to $2.37 billion compared to our second quarter of 2014.
The sales growth was principally driven by the addition of new stores and a comparable same store sales increase of 1% partially offset by changes in our independent store count.
Our comparable store sales was led by our commercial business together with a sequential improvement in our DIY business in Q1 offset by a net 34-basis-point impact from foreign currency.
Our gross profit rate of 45.9% was up 64 basis points compared to second quarter of 2014.
The gross profit rate improvement was primarily the result of lower product acquisition costs inclusive of the company's ongoing merchandise cost synergy savings.
Our comparable SG&amp;A rate was 33.8% in the quarter which improved 22 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2014.
This year-over-year improvement was the result of lower insurance costs and lower administrative costs driven by synergy savings and partially offset by expense deleverage as a result of low comparable store sales growth.
All in our second quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 8.7% to $285.5 million and our operating income rate increased 85 basis points over the same period last year to 12%.
Our second quarter comparable cash EPS was $2.27 up 9.1% on top of last year's 30% increase.
Operating cash flow increased approximately 3.2% to $330.8 million through the second quarter versus the same period last year.
Free cash flow increased to $216.3 million through the second quarter versus $214.3 million during the same period last year.
Our AP ratio for the quarter of 77.1% was essentially flat versus 77.6% last year driven by improved vendor terms offset by transitional inventory growth resulting from our product integration work and by our accelerated Worldpac growth.
At the end of the second quarter we had approximately $1.46 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.6 times.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $157 million of debt and are progressing as planned to get back below the 2.5 times leverage ratio and maintain our strong investment grade ratings.
On our last call we outlined getting to 12% comparable operating profit requiring delivering the balance of our $160 million in cost synergies an additional 100 basis points of cost reductions and approximately 30 basis points of gross margin improvement.
George outlined the operational actions we are taking to get to the 12% goal.
I will highlight how those actions will translate to our financials.
While some of these cost reductions were contemplated in our original synergy assumptions we are taking out more than originally anticipated to get an additional 100 basis points out.
We expect to realize the majority of these cost reductions and margin enhancements in 2016.
We are going beyond our original G&amp;A work to further simplify our administrative cost structures.
To this end as George noted we recently completed a meaningful head-count reduction across our corporate support centers.
Additionally we are executing broad-based reductions across all our non-selling functional areas and discretionary costs within our support teams across the enterprise.
We estimate the savings generated through these head-count reductions and other G&amp;A cost reduction initiatives will reduce our costs by approximately 45 basis points to 55 basis points on an annualized basis with the vast majority of the savings to be realized in 2016.
Note that savings realized from actions taken in 2015 are already included in our most current 2015 annual outlook.
Additionally the one-time costs resulting from the recent head-count support center reduction is already included in our most recent full-year 2015 estimate for one-time costs.
As George shared we have taken steps to improve our productivity and profit contribution across our store base with our ongoing performance management discipline and efforts to simplify our store operations.
While performance management will improve many of our outlier stores closing stores is required on the chronic underperforming and unprofitable stores.
As part of our ongoing assessment of consistent recurring outliers we are now applying a higher threshold of performance acceptability and while this work is not yet complete we have made the initial decision to close 50 of our poorest performing stores by the end of 2015 that were not originally anticipated.
This is in line with our focus on minimizing distractions and removing layers of low-returning costs and focus on our highest-returning activities.
The one-time costs associated with these additional closures are estimated to be between $16 million and $20 million and will be incremental to our original 2015 full-year outlook for one-time costs.
We will share more details on any further closures as we continue our work.
All in we estimate the annualized benefits from improving our store profitability and productivity through performance management operating efficiencies and store closures is estimated to deliver expense leverage of approximately 45 basis points to 55 basis points in 2016.
Lastly as I mentioned earlier we expect to continue expanding our gross margin rate.
We expect to leverage our size and scale to drive incremental net gross margin expansion ex-synergies through improved purchasing growth of our private label program and our global sourcing initiatives.
We also expect benefits driven from supply chain initiatives longer term led by our daily delivery program expansion.
Shorter-term we expect to offset the incremental costs and investments to expand our daily delivery through initiatives such as greater efficiencies across our transportation program and improvements in supply chain productivity.
Additionally on supply chain we have largely completed our distribution network go-forward plan and roadmap.
However we are still working through the financial implications and complexities of the acquired Carquest distribution network including working through matters with distribution center landlords.
We'll provide you more details as we finalize this work.
In addition to improving our operating performance a material opportunity exists to improve our working capital.
We continue to see opportunities to improve our AP ratio through better terms and improved inventory management as we progress through the product conversion and supply chain work.
We're on pace to pay down debt by the end of 2015 and get back to a sustained leverage ceiling of 2.5 times and maintain our strong investment grade rating.
Once achieved we will revert back to our previous capital allocation strategy to drive shareholder value which includes investing in our business and deploying our share buyback program.
Turning to the back half of the year we are maintaining our annual outlook that we shared with you on our Q1 2015 earnings call which includes delivering a full-year comparable cash EPS outlook of $8.10 to $8.30.
As shared earlier in my remarks we now expect one-time costs to increase $16 million to $20 million with the additional 50 store closures.
This increases our 2015 full-year estimate for one-time costs from our original outlook of $75 million to $85 million to now be between $91 million and $105 million.
In closing our second quarter results were in line with our original expectations as we made progress in our base business and integration.
We remain optimistic and focused on driving our commercial sales growth steadily improving our DIY business and executing on our actions to achieve our 12% comparable operating profit target.
I would like to finish by thanking our team members once again for what they do every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our company.
Operator we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Mr.
Seth Basham of Wedbush Securities.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and good morning.
Hi Seth.
Hey Seth.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question is just a clarification of 2015 guidance.
I want to make sure that some of the extra savings that you guys are now talking about were included in the 2015 outlook previously.
Hey Seth.
It's Mike.
Yes we were – if you look at our guidance for the year it's $8.20 kind of take the middle of that range we gave of $8.10 to $8.30 so use $8.20.
And then that included about $20 million of Hartford annualization from last year and acceleration of Worldpac.
So if you adjust for that you get an increase in EPS of somewhere between 10% and 11%.
And then if you take the midpoint of the synergies that we planned this year that explains about half of it.
If you do use the midpoint of 45 basis points to 55 basis points which means the base business was increasing.
So we actually assumed that we would improve our base business and those things that we talked about in our script in terms of improving our SG&amp;A and some of the other aspects of improvements are part of that improvement in the base business this year.
So the answer is yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And as a follow-up just thinking a bit about the DIY business you mentioned sequential improvement.
Can you point to whether or not we saw positive comps from that business yet and what the drivers of improvement are and how you expect it to trend going forward? Yes Seth.
This is Darren.
So in my prepared remarks I said the DIY business approached flat.
So it's been the best DIY performance that we've probably had in nearly a year and a half.
And the drivers are what George outlined.
We're real pleased with the Speed Perks program and the loyalty program and we continue to build that membership.
It's over 6 million.
The other things that we have put a fair amount of time and energy into we talked about our omni-channel capabilities.
We like that business in terms of the synergy we're seeing in terms of moving traffic into the store.
And then some of the marketing efforts are paying off in some of the key markets and we're starting to see some of the benefits that we haven't seen in years as we open new stores in new greenfield markets.
That tends to be a little bit of a flywheel as that builds.
I mean it's not going to be a big deal right now.
But over the next several years as we start to push stores out west that will be part of it.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Scot Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
You've previously mentioned that you needed some improved comp growth to get to your 12% EBIT target in 2017.
So I guess the question is what are you guys assuming your comps need to be in 2016 to reach that 12% target? And just to be clear this is 12% for the full year in 2016 and not a run rate by the end of 2016 correct? Hey Scot.
It's George.
You're correct.
It is the full year for 2016 that we're targeting toward.
We've previously guided our comps to be in the low-single digits.
We're sticking with that.
I mentioned in my remarks that we're pleased with the start that we've had to Q3 and that also remains the fact.
If you look at the 12% work I think it's a culmination of a couple activities that we've talked about in the past.
First of all 18 months into the integration we're always going look at head-count synergy; 18 months into the integration we're looking market-by-market.
So as we look at our consolidation conversion and relocation work it became natural over time to begin to look at the Advance stores as part of that as well.
And the same business rationale that we would have for consolidating a Carquest store or closing a Carquest store applies to an Advance Auto Parts store as well.
So call that kind of an evolution of that activity.
And then we stated that we were going to look for some costs out our business and that was going to help guide us to 12%.
We've found ways to accelerate that.
So while looking at the synergy head-count we looked deeper.
We looked at ways to simplify the business for our teams.
We looked at taking layers out of our corporate structure that would allow us to stop sending so much change to our stores and put more control around that.
Culmination of all those things just led us to believe that we could get there considerably faster.
Yes and as for the sales Scot I'd say it's pretty straightforward.
We do need to see the sales continue to make their upward progression.
We're not going to jerk the wheel here.
As George and his team have been essentially clearing the deck for the activities for our store this progression – DIY got better last quarter it got better this quarter we expect it to get better next quarter.
Our commercial business and our AAP stores got better this quarter.
We have some work to do in our Carquest legacy stores.
They will get better.
They have probably the brunt of the intensity of the integration change so we're not planning on a quantum leap in the comp store sales to get there but we are planning on this progression into this methodical focus to get there over the next six quarters.
Excellent.
Thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from Simeon Gutman of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Simeon.
Hey Simeon.
My first question is just last quarter the outlook was lowered and we mentioned 12% for 2017.
My question is why raise the bar now? It wouldn't have – better progression may be to beat along the way next year and that begs a follow-up of 12% wouldn't seem like a stopping point to your point Darren.
I'm curious about your thoughts just why now? Well I'll start off with the why say 12%.
Because we think we have a clear pathway there.
So again as we began the work and as we – the sales have to continue to grow.
We've said they would.
But as the integration begins to abate more and more quarter by quarter we know that the primary effect of the integration has been on the Commercial business.
We'll see the Commercial business strengthen along the way.
We also find some significant cost-out opportunity across the board that we now feel very strongly that we can achieve this number and we'll do so in the six-quarter period to get there.
12% is simply the next step along the way.
So we're saying it because we have a clear pathway.
We're not in any way shape implying that that is what we're capable of doing.
We actually believe we're capable of doing more than that.
Okay.
And my follow up thinking about share gains and top line growth versus margin.
The industry is clearly strong right now and there's a lot of top line opportunity for your business Worldpac cross-selling and some of the better availability.
So how do you balance the opportunity for market share gains with this margin target that you laid out there? Could that margin focus cause you to miss some opportunities on the top line or prevent you from going after some? Yes.
Simeon I'd frame it this way is you're right.
The market out there is very strong.
If you think about our growth drivers and you mentioned it on the call Worldpac.
Worldpac is a business that to be honest we're just not touching them.
We will open another distribution center for Worldpac in the fourth quarter.
They've opened six branches so far this year.
They will finish with 12.
Bob and his team continue to be missioned with grow that business profitably and as quickly as you can without affecting the base business because you can take a business and grow it too fast and disrupt the base business is one.
Continue to focus on new markets in terms of other growth opportunities but do it in the right way.
And we've targeted Texas in terms of growing our new store base out there and other parts out west.
Keep taking advantage of those new markets in the core I think as George has alluded to each quarter – I think George you call it quieting the integration – how do we quiet the integration in a way that we continue to make steady progress on DIY steady progress on the core Commercial and really help the teams that are suffering the brunt of the integration in terms of product and people continue to make their path forward in terms of normal selling routines.
And Simeon the moves that we've made so far and the ones that we referred to in our script are G&amp;A heavy S light.
So we are not going to try to get our way there by affecting sales capability.
That absolutely has to remain strong for us.
In fact we need to try to find ways to do more and more for the sales force and I actually think the G&amp;A cuts encourage sales.
And Simeon the other piece of that is the stores that we've closed help us both – the chronic underperformers are delivering negative comps.
And when you close those stores that actually helps us on the top line.
And actually they delivering negative profit it actually helps us on the bottom line.
So as George says and I think it's an important point this 12% is linked; top line growth and bottom line improvement.
And let me add when you close stores that are underperforming you're also helping out BS (38:09) once again.
So how does that play out for a district manager? An underperforming store is much like any performance management issue.
You spend a disproportionate amount of time and effort trying to fix that store resuscitate that store and maybe that's not even possible.
So this frees up the time and the bandwidth for our district managers to go encourage the best-performing stores and move along the middle performing stores.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Greg Melich of Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Hi thanks.
I wanted to get in a little more about the real incremental store closures.
Could you give us more – it sounds like they were just poorly performing stores.
Were they geographically in a certain area or were they burning cash or what were the metrics used to actually pick those 50 stores? We looked at the four-wall profitability of the stores Greg and I think that really drove the answer.
They're geographically spread.
I think when you have a chain the size of ours 5 300 stores over time demographic shifts business shifts and I think that's simply the case with these stores.
So they've been around for a while.
They've begun to decline.
Their comps were going down their operating income was going down and this was just the right decision for us to make.
And I wouldn't suggest that we're finished.
It's an ongoing process.
We should always be looking at the performance of our stores and we should always be paring away those that are weaker.
Got it.
And then on the capital allocation I think Mike you mentioned that once you get the debt paid down and get down to under 2.5 times debt to EBITDAR that you go back to the traditional capital allocation strategy.
Could you remind us of what that is? And also if I remember correctly it tended to bounce around between maybe 1.8 times and 2.4 times debt to EBITDAR.
Could you just remind us what that was and how you look at it now? Yeah so the answer is yes.
We'll go back to our previous capital allocation.
And that was always investing in the business first and then our share buyback program.
We always had an open to buy.
Currently we have an open to buy.
We've made a commitment to the rating agencies that we'll be below our 2.5 times and that's what we're committed to.
And then the other thing I'd remind you of we recently got an upgrade from Moody's.
So I think those are all positive.
That doesn't change the commitments we've made.
We're going to keep under our 2.5 times.
And then we'll use our share buyback as we've used it historically.
Great.
Thanks.
Yep.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Dan Wewer of Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
George I wanted to follow up on your comments about the Carquest stores generating commercial comps a little less than expected.
Is that primarily reflecting their lower pricing or the price of realignment that you referred to? And not yet generating higher revenues or do you think it was perhaps the loss of some of their brands such as Wix and Gates that's impacting their performance? Dan I think you hit the primary one.
When you look at the pricing strategy work that was done and we got to what we consider to be competitive pricing in the commercial business across the country the majority of the price decrease work went toward the Carquest stores which were historically higher in price.
As we've said that price change is immediate but velocity growth is not.
So it takes a bit of time to get the word out to go from customer-to-customer and begin to get the realization that there is a more competitive price in the market before we begin the see the sales lift.
So I think we attribute the majority of it to that.
Inc.</span></strong> I also wanted to follow up on your comments about do-it-yourself comps getting close to flat.
And it sounds like you're off to a good start with the loyalty program.
But it looks like there's one other initiative the company hasn't yet implemented to drive do-it-yourself revenues and that's an expanded private label program.
Is your private label penetration still in the low-20% rate? And if so do you see a need to bump it up to the level that AutoZone and O'Reilly are currently running to achieve similar type of do-it-yourself productivity? Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> Hey Dan.
This is Charles.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Charles.
Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> We've been working on our private label development program now for four years and when you look at the expansion of the Carquest program across our whole network today we said it was a combined company of 47%.
So we made significant progress improving our private label penetration.
Inc.</span></strong> So in the Advance stores 47% of the cost of goods sold is now private label or...
Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> Combined company we're not breaking it out between AAP and Carquest; when you look at the combined stores if you start to walk through the AAP stores you'll start to see a fairly significant penetration of the Carquest private label brand sitting in that base business.
And as we roll through the product changeovers this year and the lift and replace you'll continue to see the Carquest penetration improve in the AAP buildings.
Inc.</span></strong> Just one more follow up then is that private label product from Carquest desirable for the do-it-yourself customer who I typically think is looking for that opening price point.
Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> So as we lean into our heavy DIY program particularly with our Speed Perks program we're seeing very good adoption of the Carquest brand to those heavy DIYers.
So they want both a value brand which we've seen historically that we've driven on the AAP side but we're seeing very good take up with the quality of the Carquest private label across multiple categories Dan.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lasser of UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
The closure of the 50 incremental stores begs the topic of what the potential opportunity from this strategy might be along with how you're thinking about the potential for sales recapture from those 50 closed stores.
So how many of the stores across your entire base right now are unprofitable? Well we're addressing those within this closure.
Okay.
We're addressing the unprofitable stores within the closure.
As for what the total number is we're still – that's ongoing analysis we'll continue to work on it.
We'll always work on it.
But I would add that in some cases there will be consolidation opportunity as well as part of this.
So we don't look at it necessarily as a complete sales loss.
We look at it in many cases as profit optimization.
Hey Michael the other thing I would add as well is there were three dimensions to improving the profitability that we talked about.
One is performance management.
And whenever you have stores sometimes there's points and periods of time where stores run a little lower comp or are unprofitable in a certain period of time and those can be solved with performance management or as George said simplifying our operation.
And then the third dimension is and that's the last resort of closing stores.
So it's those three things that we look at across and all three of them will drive improvement.
Mike do we think about the distribution of your stores by profitability as maybe more uneven than the average retailer? So you have a good amount of very profitable stores and then more at the tail of those that are unprofitable? No.
I wouldn't say – we have 5 300 company owned stores and I would say we're no different than a lot of other retailers because you're going to have variability.
We just completed an acquisition; we've got some newer stores to our portfolio.
But I would say we're no different than any other retailers.
You get variability and you address those variability.
And that's what we're doing as part of our efforts.
Okay.
And then if we look at the gross margin performance in the second quarter it was up nicely.
How much of that was due to the synergies that accrued during the period? Yeah that was the biggest driver of the improvement in our gross margin.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Yep.
Our next question comes from Matt Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks a lot.
First just a quick quantitative housekeeping item.
Because you didn't have 2016 guidance out there previously just to clarify it seems like the acceleration on the margin side is about 50 basis points from the original plan.
Is that Mike the right way to think about it? You know what? We haven't put it out there yet.
I think George said it earlier in Q3 we'll give you a clue like we typically do with how we're thinking about next year and then we'll give you the actual outlook in Q4.
I don't want to get into that for next year but the fact of the matter is for the full year next year we're expecting to grow on this year and we're expecting the margins to come in at 12%.
Got it.
I was just using the 45 basis point to 55 basis point quantification that you gave for some of the expense line items that you itemized...
Yeah we actually gave two.
Okay.
We gave 45 basis points to 55 basis points for G&amp;A and we also gave 45 basis points to 55 basis points in terms of the closure of our stores.
Got it.
So those were two different ones.
And both of those just to be clear are incremental to your prior thinking? Yes.
Yep.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then second question...
Sorry Matt those are incremental to what we would expect for this year.
Some of that was already built into our synergies but they're incremental to this year.
Got it.
Okay.
So the acceleration by year we probably can't pinpoint exactly how much you've pushed forward from your prior plan to your new one? Not at this point? Yeah you know what happens Matt is originally when we did our synergy work you do it based on targets.
Now we're getting to more street addresses and that's how we think about it.
So they start to blur together.
Here's how I'd have you think about it.
This year we've given you an outlook for this year for $8.10 to $8.30 that's how we think about this year.
And then next year we're going to build on that and hit 12% operating profit.
That's how I'd have you think about it.
And just one more piece of clarity.
On this quantitative side it sounds like the acceleration the 12% is not just pushing up the timing of recognizing synergies that you'd previously disclosed but in addition to that some other cost cuts that you discussed on the call.
Is that correct? That is correct Matt.
It reflects a deeper work than the synergy.
Got it.
And then just briefly on the qualitative side you made reference earlier in the call guys to moving to more of a field-driven organization.
Can you talk about how you implement that how you deploy that strategy I guess on the cultural front which seems to your point to be an opportunity for the stores? Yeah Matt.
I think it begins with again simply beginning to put some significant governance and gatekeeping in place and the communication is coming out of the SSC.
It also involves becoming a better listening organization.
So we've already begun to do things like General Manager Councils that actually have some real consequence to them where a group of just great performers from around the country begin to come in and give us advice on what needs to be done to change the business.
We now run all field changes past the field leadership team or a sampling of the field before we actually go ahead and we make those changes.
We give more decision-making autonomy to the field senior leadership and ask them to take a bigger role in driving the outcome of our business.
We've made a significant effort at trying to just dismantle the bureaucracy of our company.
And we have it like any other that when you get big over time you get some unintended consequences.
So beginning to pull that out and just begin to simplify our message to the team and mean it much more on what we say.
This business ownership and accountability for our field team we've simplified our field structure.
We have said certainly that we feel that we need to go to a single selling team in our stores.
We've had the historical DIY and commercial split.
We know that we need to begin to unify that and operate as one single selling team.
So I think there are a number of initiatives ongoing and certainly planned that we've begun to put in place that will begin to drive that kind of behavior.
And it really begins to shift the decision-making weighting more toward the field team and away from the corporate team.
We know there are things that we think can affect our business that will put an entrepreneurial spirit in the stores.
Among those things are how we incent our team so we're going to pilot and try those things as well.
And most of the change in this organization going forward will be led by our field teams piloted by our field teams and rolled off by our field teams not tops down.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Chris Horvers of JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
Hi.
It's actually Mark Becks on for Chris.
Hi Mark.
My first question is on the loyalty program and Speed Perks.
Can you give us a sort of idea on the lift that you're seeing? And then also if there's any affiliated gross margin impact or maybe that's just a shift of advertising dollars? And then I have a follow up as well.
Yeah Mark historically we don't hand out the lift numbers and I'd say the other – but I would say this is that if you asked us point blank what's underlying your shift in terms of positive momentum in DIY it is Speed Perks.
You know what? We're seeing excitement with our team members.
When your team members can actually provide something to your customers that they're excited about provide a benefit to your customers that's what's driving part of the 6 million memberships that we're seeing today.
Is there a margin cost for this? Of course it is.
It's not material in the scheme of things given DIY margins overall but there is a small cost to it in the margins that we're seeing.
Okay.
And this is my second question on the daily delivery and fulfillment.
I think you guys are at 777 stores now you said and going to 1 000 stores by yearend.
Can you guys give us an update on how many of your DCs are actually have the capabilities for daily fulfillment or replenishment and then how you view that increase going forward? That would be helpful.
Thanks.
Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> Hey Mark.
This is Charles.
So today we've got three of our AAP legacy DCs that are doing daily delivery across all of the Carquest DCs are daily delivery today which we will continue to make investments in the AAP buildings to build out and complete our 5X delivery across our whole network.
We will add capability in the fourth quarter of this year to enhance moving beyond that 1 000-store number.
And we will continue to drive additional capability into converting three more of the legacy DCs next year to expand on our 5X capability.
So if I got my numbers right that would only leave another two or three legacy Advance DCs for daily delivery.
Is that correct? Marketing &amp; Supply Chain</span></strong> That's correct.
That would leave two more that we would be working on in 2018 in our current plan.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Our final question today comes from Mike Baker of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
So question for George you said that this second quarter was the second quarter of heavy lifting and then that should dissipate from here.
So is there any way to quantify where that disruption occurred in the first quarter and then quantify in the second quarter and what it will look like in the third quarter and fourth quarter? Does it show up in sales SG&amp;A margins et cetera any way to sort of help us quantify what that looks like? Yeah I mean I think we would see the intensity of the integration abate sequentially through all four quarters of this year.
So if you go back to the first quarter of the year we had changed the field organization.
We had changed some selling team responsibilities some customers had been realigned among our sales team.
We were at the peak of price changes across getting to one set of prices across both Advance and Carquest.
We were at the peak of the product lift strategy relabeling which is essentially completed now.
It was in full swing during the first quarter.
So that was kind of the high watermark in terms of all the activities starting in the same place.
If you move into Q2 as we finished Q2 again the relabeling work is done.
But Carquest still goes on but it's become more manageable.
Our teams are six months more experienced enrolled (56:04) than they were when we started this so the relationships are getting stronger and that impact on the commercial business begins to lessen.
That plays forward into Q3 and Q4.
So we see Q2 as having been better than Q1 and Q3 is going to be better than Q2 was.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And so understanding that any way to quantify how that might show up in the P&amp;L? No.
I think again we've said that we saw some sequential progress from Q1 to Q2 in sales mentioned that we were pleased with the start to Q3.
We'd expect that to continue.
And it's built into our annual outlook.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If I could ask two more quick follow-ups because I know we're getting close to 11 a.m.
here.
One the 200 stores in consolidations conversions et cetera does that include the 50 stores you're talking about today? And then can you sort of break out how many of those will be consolidations versus closures versus conversions et cetera? Just so we can sort of calculate in our model your yearend store count? Business Development and Integration</span></strong> So this is Bill Carter.
The 50 incremental closures that Mike and George mentioned are on top of the 200 stores that we'll do TCRs (57:17) and we'll do in the back half of this year.
What I'd say in terms of breaking out those 200 in terms of conversions consolidations and what we'll call relocations is if we go back to the bigger picture we're about a one-third a one-third a one-third between conversions consolidations and relocations across the Carquest chain and we're largely sticking with that allocation.
We'll do more conversions and consolidations earlier because the relos take a little bit longer to work through the system.
So as I look at the 200 stores it's probably 40/40/20 stores in terms of breaking out how many of those are conversions versus consolidations versus relocations.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay helpful.
One more quick one.
You reiterated your low single digit guidance during the Q&amp;A session here.
But I think the guidance as of last quarter was the low end of the low single digit comp guidance.
So are we still thinking low end of the low single digit? Yes we are.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the call back to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Cheryl and thanks to our audience for participating on our second quarter conference call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes your call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts third quarter 2015 conference call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's call.
This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani Vice President of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call.
I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable basis to exclude impacts of cost in connection with integration of General Parts International.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Now let me turn the call over to Jack Brouillard.
Thanks Zaheed and good morning everyone.
Before I turn it over to the team to review the quarter I want to take a few minutes to discuss this morning's announcements regarding changes we are making to our leadership team and our board.
Earlier today we announced that George Sherman will assume the role of Interim CEO of Advance Auto Parts following Darren Jackson's planned retirement from the company and the board at the beginning of the next fiscal year in January.
In addition the board has named me Executive Chairman and we have appointed John Ferraro who joined our board earlier this year as Lead Independent Director.
Since joining us nearly three years ago George Sherman has been instrumental in our efforts to expand our commercial business improve our operations and integrate GPI.
Through all these efforts George has demonstrated the breadth of skills customer relationships and leadership capabilities that make him the right choice to lead Advance during this transition period.
On behalf of the board and the entire company I want to express deep gratitude to Darren for his many important contributions to the success of the company over the last 11 years and particularly the last eight in his role as CEO.
Under Darren's leadership Advance has doubled in size successfully developed a leading presence in Commercial to complement our DIY strength and made critical investments in capabilities to drive efficiency and performance.
In short Darren has guided Advance well as we have transformed the company and positioned Advance Auto Parts into a clear industry leader.
Collectively these efforts have resulted in increases in market value of over $10 billion and positioned Advance well strategically operationally and financially to capitalize on the opportunities that lie ahead.
As Darren retires from his role as CEO he leaves behind a great legacy and a company with a bright future.
In my new role as Executive Chairman I look forward to continuing to lead the board while also working closely with George and his management team during this transition period as we continue to execute on our strategic objectives.
In addition to the new roles that John Ferraro and I will play on the board we also welcome Jeff Smith of Starboard Value as a new board member.
We've had the opportunity to engage with Jeff and Starboard as a major shareholder and we are aligned around the opportunity and the need to deliver improved operating results to drive increased shareholder value at Advance.
Jeff will be a valuable addition to our board and we look forward to working closely together going forward.
Jeff John and I will lead the search for Darren's permanent successor.
George will be considered as part of that process which will also include an evaluation of external candidates as we look for the best leader to take the company forward.
As we work through this transition the board is confident that we will not miss a beat in the execution of our strategy to deliver improved operating performance.
In addition to Jeff joining the Advance board Starboard will designate two additional independent directors to the board as soon as practical.
We have also agreed that the nominating and corporate governance committee will name two additional independent directors for election at our next annual meeting in the spring.
We expect that following the 2016 annual meeting the board will have 12 to 13 members which will include Jeff and these four new directors.
I know we have provided you with a lot of information this morning so let me step back and provide you with a bit of perspective before I turn the call over to Darren and his team.
Under Darren's leadership we have made tremendous strides in positioning the company strategically operationally and financially.
Advance has a solid foundation upon which we will continue to build going forward.
We remain focused on delivering improved operating performance and increased shareholder value.
The board including Jeff and the management team are aligned around that effort and focused on redoubling our efforts to achieve those objectives.
With that let me turn the call over to Darren.
Thanks Jack.
George and Mike will cover the quarter but I'd first like to echo some of Jack's comments.
George and I have worked closely together over the last several years and he has a deep understanding of our business and the needs of our customers and he has earned the respect of our team members.
I have absolute confidence in his ability to lead this company.
Second despite the near-term challenges we face in the business I have the utmost confidence in the company's ability to deliver on the improved operating targets we have previously outlined and to continue to increase shareholder value in the years ahead.
Third retiring at this time is something I've been intending for for some time and have discussed extensively with our directors.
During my tenure we have doubled sales significantly grown our store count and team members and transformed our business to be a leader in serving both the installer and do-it-yourself customers; ultimately growing our earnings per share and increasing our price per share six-fold.
It has been a privilege to work with such a tremendous team and I'm extremely proud of what we have accomplished together.
Finally I want to thank all of you for your ongoing support over the years.
I'm confident that the company is in a great position to build on its past success and deliver even greater value to our customers team members and shareholders going forward.
Now let me turn it over to George Sherman.
Thanks Darren and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to acknowledge the significant contributions that Darren has made to Advance Auto Parts over his more than 11 years with the company.
Darren has strategically positioned this company for leadership in the auto parts aftermarket while creating value for our shareholders over that period of time.
He has lived the company's values to inspire serve and grow and has always partnered with the community and charitable organizations to give back as he saw that as a fundamental responsibility of the company and consistent with his personal values.
I thank Darren for all his support and leadership over the years.
Before I begin my prepared remarks I'd also like to thank all of our team members for their continued focus and commitment to customer service in the quarter.
Looking ahead I welcome the opportunity and look forward to working with our teams to realize the full potential of this company.
We are on a course to combine as one company and we're on the right path.
However we must have a relentless bias for action and that means pushing forward and finishing the things that we've started.
It also means focusing on doing fewer things better and measuring ourselves by the outcomes we deliver and expecting higher levels of accountability at Advance Auto Parts.
Turning to our third quarter overall despite some optimism for incremental progression coming out of Q2 our third quarter performance highlighted the challenge of navigating the integration work while simultaneously rationalizing parts of our business.
We underestimated the cumulative effect of integration change and while we are disappointed with our results and are not currently where we expected to be within our integration we believe in where we are going and have confidence in our plan.
I gain confidence from seeing pockets of performance from some of our regions that have gone through integration and are delivering with strength.
Seeing some of our product categories come through the product changes and delivering with strength and the knowledge that while we still have work to do we're going to anniversary significant parts of the integration change from last year as we head into 2016.
We will discuss this in more detail shortly.
We are well into our integration and have a number of work streams in flight.
We're focused on finishing these activities as quickly as possible to position the two businesses to begin operating as one focused on operational execution.
That means moving faster on capabilities such as our daily delivery expansion accelerating our store consolidations and our store profitability work and by growing our Speed Perks and TECHNET membership programs at a determined pace to name a few.
During the quarter our sales grew a modest .3% to $2.29 billion.
The comparable sales were up .5% led by Commercial with our DIY business essentially flat.
On a constant currency basis our comparable sales were up roughly 1%.
Earnings per share on a comparable basis grew 3.2% in the quarter on top of last year's 27.7% growth.
Plainly said we are not satisfied with these results.
They're unacceptable to me and our entire team.
My upcoming remarks will address the actions we are taking in the areas of inventory availability sales execution and our integration in order to drive the sales outcomes that we expect.
As we mentioned on our second quarter call our core business had an encouraging start to the quarter.
However comp trends began to decelerate towards the middle of the quarter.
The integration has continued to have a more prolonged impact on our core Commercial business resulting in lower sequential Commercial comps this quarter compared to our second quarter.
This was partly due to continued sales softness within our CARQUEST U.S.
stores as the teams in those stores continue to work through a heavier share of the integration change coupled with some category sales softness.
Our DIY business in contrast once again showed sequential improvement from our second quarter delivering roughly a flat comp as we continue to focus on our Speed Perks program and our sustained marketing investments.
We're encouraged by the continuing improvements in our DIY business.
Notably our Canadian business and import focus businesses continue to deliver good overall results.
Additionally there are a few ongoing headwinds to our comp performance in the quarter specifically an approximate 47 basis point impact from foreign currency related to our Canadian business and roughly 36 basis points of impact from Worldpac due to transferring of existing customers from legacy branches to newly-opened branches that are positioned to serve them more efficiently.
This was partially offset by consolidation favorability.
The first half of the year for Worldpac was accretive to our comp performance with a second half resembling more of a comp headwind as we realized the full effect of these new branch openings.
Looking the other comp trends we saw a good performance in the Southeast and Texas markets.
Conversely our Upper Midwest and Great Lakes markets underperformed in the quarter partially driven by weather while our Puerto Rico market experienced continued softness as a result of economic uncertainty.
From a product standpoint we saw continued strength in our Brake and Battery business across the company with some softness in our Undercar business.
Regionally however our results continue to be uneven as our teams work through the integration.
Not all our stores are where we need them to be.
While we are disappointed with our sales progression in Commercial we also believe these disruptions are temporary and addressable.
I say this for two reasons.
First during my store visits this quarter I saw just how hard our teams are working.
They are progressing through their individual learning curves and I'm confident that each quarter they will get stronger in their roles.
Second to help with some context run on comp performance less than 10% of our store base accounted for approximately 120 basis points of sales shortfall.
Part of this shortfall was our team members working through the integration changes but part of it is clearly addressable through performance management to deliver the expected outcomes which we're actively doing as part of our store assessments and profitability work that is well underway.
Industry fundamentals continue to remain positive including vehicles and operation gas prices miles driven and a steadily improving economy.
With respect to our key customer segments our TECHNET customer marketing program continues to grow at a solid pace with over 7300 members pacing double-digit sales growth year-to-date and mid-single-digit growth for the quarter.
The program is also experiencing record program retention rates.
These results are a great example of our commercial sales team recruiting solid new members that find value in the program's marketing training business management and other key components.
The Speed Perks loyalty program continues to grow and we have now surpassed the 8 million member mark so we're about 80% of the way toward 2015 member acquisition goal.
We couldn't be more pleased with this outcome and it is having a tangible impact on our business as we have now seen our third quarter of sequential improvement in our DIY comps since we began scaling Speed Perks in January.
Moreover we're excited about entering 2016 with an established loyalty program and having a member base that's tenfold what we had coming into 2015 and still growing.
We have also now started to rollout Speed Perks to our converted CARQUEST stores and have the program in several new markets including Dallas Portland and Salt Lake City.
Additionally these CARQUEST locations are now able to participate in our buy online and pick up at store program.
This is significant as it raises the profile of those stores from what was historically an underpenetrated DIY and B to C profile prior to our store conversions.
We continue to see very nice results in Speed Perks enrollment through our B to C channel since we launched that last quarter.
Our key focus with Speed Perks program has been to drive acquisition and service with a broader objective which is membership.
Membership is how we will build true loyalty to the brand and deliver unique tailored customer service experiences to our membership base.
Lastly we continue to see a good hard parts balance of sale accompanied by improved frequency of visit and a larger basket size.
We're very pleased with the program performance and believe there is still significant runway for us to engage with the customer and we intend to capitalize on that.
Turning to our integration our commentary at the end of the second quarter suggested the effects of the integration were expected to abate.
While we did see abatement in certain areas of the business it was not as broad as we expected.
That said we still absolutely believe we will continue to make progress in the near term.
We can already see progress in markets where we were able to complete our integration work.
Both our Texas and Maine markets have gone through the integration changes earlier this year and we are seeing third quarter comp performance improved by roughly 400 basis points and almost 900 basis points respectively in those markets versus the pre-integration performance.
With that in mind I'd like to share the status update with you across the five integration areas that we've been focusing on this year.
First as I mentioned last quarter our Support Center consolidation is complete as the team member moves have been made and we are not introducing any new changes to the teams.
However we are not yet executing at the same level we were prior to the consolidation for a couple of reasons.
First virtually all of our Support Center departments have new team members resulting from those consolidation efforts.
On some teams as many as 40% of the team members are new to the organization.
Second many key capability areas are also contending with dual legacy systems that won't talk to one another until we ultimately move over to common platforms.
We absolutely expected our teams would need to operate dual systems for a period of time.
However we didn't expect to have as many new team members based on our initial retention rate assumptions.
One challenge we faced was hiring team members for a legacy system that is not a mainstream application ultimately requiring new hires additional time to learn the nuances of the systems; thus the combination of newer team members managing complicated dual legacy systems has increased the slope of the learning curve for our team members.
That said our teams are working incredibly hard and making progress with each quarter.
Second and similar to our corporate teams our field operations and sales teams also continue to settle into their routines and work through their new roles and aspects of the integration.
These are large organizational changes and we're past through the initial change and are now working for the settling-in process.
Many of our store general managers are new in role or new to managing with dual model.
We can see that because our stores that have more tenured GMs are generating much stronger comp performance.
In our CARQUEST operations our field leaders are getting more accustomed to running a dual model environment with both commercial and DIY responsibilities.
This is different than just running a predominantly commercial box in the past.
We are definitely making progress and as I referenced earlier time and role matters and our team members are progressing through the learning curve at different paces.
Third turning to our store consolidation conversion and relocation work.
In the third quarter we successfully completed 83 store integration projects across three markets.
The markets completed were Portland Indianapolis and Memphis.
The results to date have been very good and we are pleased with the latest round of projects.
The fourth quarter is slated for approximately 110 total projects between conversions consolidations and relocations across four markets.
Execution in these markets is already underway and initial indications are that performance is trending as expected.
As I mentioned earlier we are focused on finishing aspects of our integration as quickly as possible to get our teams into a rhythm where they can operate seamlessly across our entire store base.
One opportunity is to accelerate our consolidations and we will be pulling forward between 60 to 70 CARQUEST consolidations originally planned for further in 2016 to now being completed in Q1 of 2016.
A fourth priority is our product changeovers.
We continue to execute the remaining lift and replace product alignment work and expect to have this completed in the first quarter of 2016.
That said the lift and replace transition continues to provide some temporary headwinds relating to our thorough execution on certain product lines.
We are intensely focused on working with our suppliers and our collective supply chain teams to execute to the level we expect for our customers and we expect to see continued improvement.
Conversely as I mentioned earlier we're pleased with our strong brake category performance.
This product category was not subject to a supplier change and incurred only in minor re-label and repackaging work.
This provides us the ongoing confidence that our other brands more heavily impacted by the product changeover will emerge with strength as we work through the integration changes.
Our battery business was another strong transition category that has moved through the change quicker than other product lines and is delivering goods sales performance.
Additionally as we mentioned last quarter we continued to work through the retention efforts for those customers that continue to have an affinity for certain brands that we no longer carry.
Changing long-standing buying habits and building confidence with those customers is not an overnight process but we are actively engaged in retaining those customers or replacing their business.
We are proud of our product line-up and believe we have an industry leading line-up that positions us to serve our great customer base well into the future.
As I've also mentioned our Commercial price alignment work is effectively complete.
As we discussed last quarter the impact of price movement takes time to drive sales unit velocity to make up for the impact where we decreased prices.
Our fifth key priority focuses on our systems and supply chain integration efforts.
As mentioned previously we continue with the development work for a common catalog and we're on pace to be in pilot by Q1 of 2016.
The catalog will be a key enabler for our integrated replenishment project where we expect to begin the integration of the CARQUEST and Advance PC networks in the second half of next year.
Finally we're making good progress on the third of the core IT integration priorities and that is our new point of sale system for our stores.
We are moving the development along (22:36) and expect to have the new POS system in pilot by Q4 of 2016.
Turning now to our efforts to expand our daily delivery program.
At the end of the quarter we had 804 Advance Auto Parts stores being serviced daily and are on track against our minimum objective of 1 000 stores.
However I've challenged the team to accelerate the rollout in the fourth quarter and as a result we now expect to exceed our objective and service approximately 1300 AAP stores by the end of the year.
On average those stores being serviced on a daily basis now have access to all the SKUs carried by the servicing DC which typically translates to over 100 000 SKUs on a next-day basis.
Also our stores are able to access between 35 000 to 55 000 SKUs on a same-day basis from our over 400 in-market hub stores.
Overall the benefits we are seeing from our stores on daily delivery are in line with our expectations and we are focusing on accelerating the rollout.
Moving on we continue to focus on our base business execution in support of our profitability goal of 12% comparable operating income by 2016.
As I mentioned in our last call the number one building block of our performance culture starts with sales.
Consistently delivering on our sales and service objectives is the highest priority for the team.
We continue to focus on our sales execution and making those necessary changes to our business as we move to a field-led organization.
We continue to take steps to simplify our business and allow our teams to focus on taking care of our customers while continuing to empower our teams to take intelligent risks and make those local decisions that will serve their customers best.
In the spirit of taking steps to build a solid sustainable sales culture and structure we'll be implementing the following changes.
First we have begun the transition over to a single selling environment in our stores.
Our current approach with staffing and labor management divides commercial and DIY into two distinct teams within our stores with little cross-capability leverage between the teams.
A single selling environment now organizes our stores so that each team member plays more broadly to serve all our customers not strictly front room or strictly back room.
Every team member must be able to play all roles and operate cross-functionally.
A single-selling model is more efficient because it requires less labor in the store and it also provides our field leadership with more flexibility in how they schedule and staff the store so that customers receive the best possible service.
Second in early October we began piloting a new compensation plans for key field positions.
The pilot centers on a more variable compensation plan to support our growing commercial sales model and provides more emphasis on growing compensation by growing the business and having a closer alignment to the organizational objectives and profit expectations.
This change also fosters the strengthening of our internal bench of sales-focused objective-driven team members.
We're still very early in the pilot and we'll have better insight on our fourth quarter call on the results and the timing of the rollout.
We believe this change is another step forward in strengthening our sales culture but we won't move forward until this is proven and absolutely right.
We spoke on our last call about our broad work to review the profitability across our store base.
We continue the work of looking at those stores that are chronic underperformers and take up a disproportionate amount of our field leaders' time.
Our assessments are still ongoing but we are aggressively addressing the poorest performing stores within our bottom 10%.
Consequently we've made the further determination to close another tranche of 30 stores that Mike will provide further financial detail on.
We will be continuing with our assessments and examining performance across our store base; as we said previously where necessary we'll adjust our footprint accordingly.
In closing 2015 can best be characterized as a building year essentially building Advance and CARQUEST into one business from our people products and offices through systems supply chain and stores.
In hindsight our agenda was aggressive and has temporarily slowed our core commercial business.
That being said we're doing the necessary work to combine these two companies into one.
These are foundational investments in changes we are making this year and are confident they will begin generating results for our business in 2016 and beyond.
It is important for us to take meaningful steps towards finishing our integration as thoughtfully but aggressively as we can in order to get back to a business as usual environment with a more intent focus on operational execution with a higher degree of accountability that positions the company to achieve our 12% comparable operating profit target by 2016.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks George and good morning everyone.
I'd also like to start by thanking all of our talented team members for the commitment to serving our customers in our third quarter.
In my remarks today I plan to review the financial highlights from our third quarter and provide insights on the remainder of the year.
Moving to our third quarter our operating results we delivered comparable cash EPS of $1.95 which was a 3.2% increase from our third quarter of 2014.
Included in our comparable cash EPS was $9.2 million in incremental synergy realization.
On a GAAP basis our third quarter EPS was $1.63 which included $9.7 million of intangible asset amortization associated with the acquisition of General Parts and $28.6 million of one-time integration expenses related to General Parts and one-time support center restructuring costs.
Our comparable store sales were led by our commercial business together with our third consecutive sequential improvement in our DIY business offset by the net 47 basis point impact from foreign currency.
Our gross profit rate decline was primarily the result of higher inventory expenses related to the product integration modest supply chain de-leverage due to the lower comparable store sales growth partially offset by lower product acquisition costs inclusive of the company's ongoing cost synergy savings.
Our comparable SG&amp;A improvement was the result of lower incentive costs overall lower administrative costs and synergy savings partially offset by expense deleverage as a result of our lower comparable store sales growth.
All in our third quarter operating income dollars on a comparable basis increased 2.9% to $243.8 million and our operating income rate increased 28 basis points over the same period last year to 10.6%.
Our AP ratio for the quarter was 76.8% versus 78.4% at the same time last year.
This decrease is principally driven by transitional inventory growth resulting from our product integration work the CARQUEST consolidation work and by our accelerated Worldpac growth.
We expect the inventory growth to abate throughout 2016.
At the end of the third quarter we had approximately $1.29 billion of debt on our balance sheet and our adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.5 times.
During the quarter we paid down approximately $160 million of debt and are slightly ahead of our planned timeline to get back below the 2.5 times leverage ratio and maintain our strong investment grade ratings.
On our last earning call we outlined our accelerated plan as well as actions we have begun taking to grow our comparable operating income to 12% by the end of 2016.
We remain very focused on this near-term objective.
As a reminder getting to 12% comparable operating profit requires capturing the balance of our $160 million of cost synergies delivering an additional 100 basis points of cost reductions through a combination of 45 basis points to 55 basis points of G&amp;A cost reduction initiatives and 45 basis points to 55 basis points from our store productivity and profitability work and additionally driving gross margin improvements.
We continue to make good progress against our G&amp;A initiatives as we execute broad-based reductions across all our non-selling functional areas and aggressively cut discretionary costs across the enterprise including simplifying our administrative cost structures reducing professional services and travel costs and essentially targeting all nonessential expenses.
Our third quarter expense management affirmed our focus on disciplined G&amp;A cost control delivering cost leverage despite a softer top line.
We continue to work on improving the productivity and profitability across our store base and where necessary removing non-performing assets from our business.
In the third quarter we continued our ongoing assessment of serial underperformers within our store base and we have made the decision to close an incremental 30 stores by the end of 2015.
The onetime costs associated with these additional 30 closures are estimated to be between $10 million and $15 million.
As a reminder we announced the closure of 50 stores last quarter now bringing our total store closures relative to our store profitability work to approximately 80 stores this year.
We are also improving our store productivity and profitability by implementing a single selling model and piloting our new store compensation program.
The savings generated by these initiatives will largely be realized in 2016 and are already contemplated in the 45 basis points to 55 basis points of store productivity and profitability expense leverage that we've previously outlined as part of our pathway to 12%.
As we head into 2016 we expect to continue expanding our gross margin rate.
We recognize after adjusting for our business's structural differences including business mix and customer mix we have further opportunity to improve our gross margins through leveraging our size and scale to improve our purchasing and grow our private label in global sourcing programs.
Additionally we are concentrating on value drivers such as competitive pricing programs as well as driving efficiencies in our logistics and transportation programs and managing our inventory.
We also expect benefits from our supply chain initiatives longer term led by our daily delivery program expansion.
Shorter term we expect to offset the incremental costs and investments to expand our daily delivery through initiatives such as greater efficiencies across our logistics capability and improvements in supply chain productivity.
We have already begun taking actions on these margin improvement areas and while we are slightly behind where we expected to be overall we expect these initiatives to contribute towards our objectives in 2016.
We continue to focus on our working capital and are concentrating on those opportunities to improve our AP ratio through better terms and improved inventory management as we progress through the product conversion and supply chain work.
As I mentioned earlier as of the end of our third quarter our leverage ratio was 2.5 times.
We stated that once we got back to a sustained leverage ratio of 2.5 times we would revert back to our previous capital allocation strategy.
We will continue to maintain a disciplined approach to capital deployment to maximize shareholder value.
Turning to the balance of the year and given our third quarter results and the continued sales softness in our fourth quarter we are revising down our annual comparable EPS outlook.
We expect to see continued impact from our integration activities as evidenced by a softer than expected start to our fourth quarter which is our lowest volume and most volatile quarter of the fiscal year given the holiday season which can result in lower demand for parts and unpredictable weather patterns.
We have factored these considerations together with our third quarter earnings shortfall into our revised full-year outlook.
Additionally last year was a 53-week year with an additional week in the fourth quarter that included the New Year's Day holiday.
This year the New Year's Day falls in our fourth quarter and on a comparable basis will lower our sales approximately $15 million to $20 million.
Taking all these factors into account we now expect our comparable store sales in the fourth quarter to come in flat to slightly negative.
Our gross margin outlook incorporates the revised lower sales estimate and we also expect the margin softness from Q3 to continue through the balance of the year while we work through our integration.
We expect our fourth quarter gross margin rate to be roughly flat year-over-year.
Also as a reminder we will anniversary lower incentive compensation expense from our fourth quarter last year estimated to be an approximate $5 million impact to our fourth quarter this year.
All in we now expect our full-year comparable cash EPS outlook to be $7.75 to $7.90.
Our synergy estimates remain unchanged at $45 million to $55 million for the full year and we expect our full-year estimate of onetime cost to increase from between $91 million and $105 million to now be between $101 million and $120 as a result of the 30 additional store closures announced today.
Finally due to softer operating performance and higher owned inventory we have made reductions to our capital expenditures and expect to maintain our free cash flow estimate of a minimum of $475 million for the full year.
As we look out to 2016 our priorities will largely remain unchanged.
It starts with driving good top line growth and that must translate into bottom line profit as we focus on delivering against our 12% comparable operating income objective.
Despite the current softness in our business we remain confident as we will begin to annualize many of the significant integration changes from 2015 such as the office consolidations the field integration changes the brand and product changeovers and the price harmonization changes.
Also our G&amp;A and store profitability efforts are in progress as we enter 2016 and we are well-positioned to deliver against our plans.
We will be going into the year with stronger availability resulting from our accelerated daily delivery expansion and we're expecting our conversion and consolidation stores to begin hitting their stride.
We expect our top line growth to be led by our Commercial business new store openings membership programs as well as continuing to steadily improve our DIY business and focus on continued improvements in our inventory availability.
We expect the favorable industry tailwinds experienced this year to largely hold steady in 2016.
As outlined previously we are committed to growing our comparable operating profit to 12% in 2016 by improving our gross profit rate delivering on our G&amp;A cost reductions and store productivity improvements in achieving our remaining cost synergies.
We will provide a more detailed annual outlook on our fourth quarter call.
In closing while our third quarter results were unfavorably impacted by the continued demands of the integration we remain focused on completing the integration and making the necessary changes to the business in order to achieve our objectives.
I would also like to take a moment to acknowledge the meaningful contributions that Darren has made to our company over the past 11 years and the commitment he has shown towards driving value for our shareholders customers and team members.
I would like to finish by thanking our team members once again for what they do every day to serve our customers inspire our team members and grow our company.
Operator we are now ready for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Mr.
Michael Lasser from UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks a lot for taking my question and best of luck with everyone on the next phase.
My first question is on the disruption that you're seeing from the integration.
If you look at your trend – your comp trend even includes use of the hit from that – that you saw from excess and compare it to some others in the industry.
It appears that the disruption you saw from the integration was greater this quarter than you've seen in the last few quarters despite the price harmonization being under your belt for several periods.
So what got worse this quarter and how long should we expect that this is going to weigh on the business? Because usually it is more difficult to win business back once you've lost it than it is to lose it? Michael it's George.
Thanks for the question.
I'll start off with the first portion of the question which is what was different this quarter? Was it more difficult from an integration standpoint than previous? And no not entirely.
I think we did see abatement of some of the activities in some areas.
It just didn't slow down as much as we thought it was going to do.
We have markets under physical construction now as part of the consolidation conversion relocation work.
We did have some fill-rate issues that really stems from some systems complexities combined with some new folks working on those systems and that predominantly was the impact that we had during the quarter.
We gave a lot of context on what's happening with the integration new team members product lifts.
I want to be clear.
The integration is not an artificial entity out there hurting Advance Auto Parts.
It's our integration.
We did it.
An integration is entirely about process pacing and execution.
And we control all three of those levers.
It's our process that we're executing right now.
We've had to change it we've had to go back to certain areas and redevelop our processes to have less impact on our stores.
Where the construction portion is concerned we feel we've done that.
We feel we've made nice progress and that we're doing better market conversions now as we go forward.
From a pacing standpoint that's an area we're going to have to give some attention to as well.
In some areas like consolidations we're going to have to go faster in some cases.
A CARQUEST store that was not particularly sound beforehand is not going to become so because we bought the company.
We need to move those consolidations forward faster but there's going to be clearly areas that we have to slow down on as well.
We took on an awful lot and I think it's fair to say that it was disruptive to us and perhaps too aggressive in some areas.
And then in terms of execution once again that's something that we control and that we need to do a better job of.
So it really was a combination of in-stock and disruption from the physical aspects of the integration work but that again is something that we own fully.
If you look at the – I'm sorry Michael.
Go ahead.
I was just going to ask how long will it take to have some of these integration challenges alleviated.
Yes.
We certainly expect that we're going to begin to have some significant progress under our belt as we go into 2016 and we're going to cycle some that are going to be significant as well.
We're now moving past that period where we made pricing changes.
We're about to enter into the period where we began the product lifts.
We're about to enter into the period where we began the relabeling.
We're about to cycle that time period where we change sales territories.
We're about to cycle the timeframe where we changed our leadership structure and our sales territory so that's coming up very quickly.
And again we can't wait.
We're making improvements now on the physical process portion of this and on in-stocks.
Certainly if you find where we have fill-rate issues and get that fixed it's something that we believe we've already done as we've seen particularly in the case of CARQUEST fill-rate begin to cross the level of now being better than last year.
I think the other thing Michael that gives us a lot of confidence is those markets that are fully through the integration.
All the market work is done the product assortment work is done they're now finished and have very good results.
We're very encouraged by our major markets in Texas Dallas-Fort Worth San Antonio and Houston and we've seen pretty significant increase in their comp performance as they've now cleared the major aspects of the integration.
And the same is true with Bangor which has historically been a poor performing market that is now running some high mid-single-digit comps because they're finished with the integration work as well.
So our confidence level that when you're through the integration change management you're going to see good business outcomes that we control aspects of this and can correct quickly and that we're going to cycle some major events next year has us optimistic.
Okay.
And my quick follow-up is as you look towards next year with a the12% operating margin how much of that goal is dependent on your sales? So you outlined some productivity metrics and G&amp;A metrics measures that will get you there but it sounds like there are elements of achieving that goal that are sales dependent so to what degree could that be at risk? Thank you.
Our sales assumptions were modest.
And we did that just to make sure that we had a fully achievable goal.
So we did not have aggressive sales assumptions they were very modest and we will hit our 12% objective and that is still well within our sights.
With that said we expect to see revenue growth next year.
We certainly expect to see putting more 5X – stores on 5X delivery putting more inventory in.
Having 10 million Speed Perks members versus less than a million last year at this time.
All are going to have an impact on our revenues and we're going to get that back on track.
Okay.
Best of luck.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Michael.
Our next question comes from the Simeon Gutman from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So there appears to be EBIT margin upside for this business over time.
Where that is I think is very debatable.
But there seems to be some upside.
So given the underperformance that we've seen over the course of this year especially this quarter why is 12% in the near term attainable? And in thinking about building something for the future and I think George you mentioned a lot of things about strengthening culture et cetera isn't there a risk that you make some near-term decisions here just for the sake of getting to this target in the very near term? Simeon we're very confident in the 12% objective.
Again we do not have aggressive sales assumptions in there as part of it intentionally.
And again I have to repeat we expect to see revenue increases come.
So we certainly expect to see all the things aligned that we need to get to 12% and frankly we need to begin to look beyond that as well.
So we're very very confident in that aspect of our plan.
Yes Simeon.
And let me do this – let me give you a couple of the buckets that give us confidence.
First of all we talked about our SG&amp;A and there's two big components of that.
There's 45 basis points to 55 basis points of just G&amp;A takeout nonessential costs furthest away from the customer and we started that work and the fact that we leveraged SG&amp;A on a pretty low comp tells you that we're making good progress and we're going to continue that work.
That's one bucket.
The second bucket is our store profitability and productivity work where we're closing stores we're closing down the underperformers.
That will help us improve our operating margins.
We're going to close 80 stores by the end of the year and performance-manage those other stores that aren't performing at the same rate and get their rates up.
So that's the second one.
And then the third component is gross margins.
We'll leverage our size and scale get better purchasing synergies more competitive pricing global sourcing private label.
We've talked about those areas.
And again those are all areas directly within our control that we can do to give us confidence that we can get to 12% building off of what George said.
Okay.
And my follow-up is how do you assess some of the temporary market share losses? I think it was a comment mentioned that maybe in some of the transfers from CARQUEST maybe there was some friction there.
So if you're not retaining that business at the same level or if you're losing some business how can you assess that it's temporary? Maybe there was a disruption in service or availability versus that business going out the door and then getting sticky at some other place? Yes Simeon some of that loss is just inherent in the consolidations that we're doing.
When you have a customer that is doing business with both Advance Auto Parts and CARQUEST which historically have had different product lines and you converge those two businesses and you converge the product lines as part of it not every customer is comfortable.
There are certain lines certain brands they have done business with their entire careers that they still have an affinity towards.
And we know that when those consolidations happen that there is some share loss potential and that we have to maximize retention.
But not in every case can we get them over the hump to make them move from one product brand to the other.
We try we keep working with that customer we try to replace that revenue.
But that certainly is some share at risk.
We're not retaining 100% sales obviously when we consolidate those two stores.
Some of it is going to the market.
Thanks.
Good luck Darren and the team.
Yes.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Chris Horvers of JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So one follow-up on the 12% margin target.
So maybe this is a question for Jack.
So that 12% target which you're expressing a lot of confidence in the management team is what precludes a potential external CEO from coming in and changing this outlook as we think about next year? Well thanks for your question first.
We view the 12% as a step along the way to higher performance.
And we're confident that we can get to the 12% or beyond next year.
It's premature to speculate what somebody who is not here would do.
George is here and George is going to get us to the 12% next year.
Understood.
And then George question for you.
So as you sit here today are there strategies that aren't being executed or tactics or culture changes not being executed that you think are necessary to accelerate the performance or is it – is your view that basically what you're doing here today is the right strategy and it's just a matter of sticking to it and following it through? Yes thank you.
I think there's a – if you look at the integration work I think we have the right work streams.
Again I think we're very open-minded to the possibility that we went too aggressively on some of them and created too much competing work streams at the same time.
We're going to look at that we're going to make the appropriate changes.
I also think that as you look at our organization and I've said this before we have to become more and more of a field-led organization.
I believe Advance operated on a corporate-out basis for many years and that especially as a commercial business we have got to revolve more around our stores have more local autonomy have great local leadership and have a support center that supports stores and customers every single day.
So that is a cultural shift that we are making and I think that's a very important one.
I also want to say and this really goes back to a bit of – one of Simeon's follow-on questions – if you look at the 12% plan we're not going to make foolish decisions to get to 12%.
We're not closing stores for the sake of closing stores for instance.
We're closing stores that are full loss positive that are just a drag on the overall profitability but frankly they're a drag on our field leadership.
There's a lot of time that's spent exception-managing stores that in some cases just aren't going to get there.
And then the last thing I'd say which I think is very important and this is a change we're just going to do fewer things better.
We're going to do fewer things better plain and simple and we're going to finish them get them all the way to done.
We have sometimes taken on too many projects had too big of an appetite and just not executed everything to its full extent.
We're going to do fewer things better and we're going to get them done.
Understood.
And then last question.
So just a clarification.
That $15 million impact from the New Year's shift that impacts comp this year so about 70 basis points.
Also now that you're at 2.5 times do you anticipate starting to execute on the buyback? Thanks.
Yes.
So maybe I'll take that.
Yes so the holiday that was in the 53rd week last year it falls into the 52nd week and it will be a headwind and yes it will impact comp.
And then I think your question was on buyback.
We've mentioned at the end of the third quarter our leverage ratio was at 2.5 times.
We stated in the past that we get back to a sustained leverage ratio of 2.5 times we'd revert back to our previous capital allocation strategy.
What we're most proud of is we got back to 2.5 times and we got back there.
We said we were going to do it we did it.
And we did it a little bit earlier than we had planned.
This now puts us in a position to revert back to our previous allocation policy.
Historically we prioritize growth as the first use of our capital and we've also effectively used buybacks to create shareholder value.
So we'll consider these options as part of our capital allocation as we go forward.
And most importantly we'll continue to maintain our disciplined approach to capital deployment to maximize shareholder value.
Understood.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Greg Melich from Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
I want to follow up on supply chain and getting in-stocks improved and some of the things I think you mentioned in your prepared comments George.
If I remember correctly you have combined about 50 DCs and there was meant to be a plan later last year as which ones to consolidate and when.
Then you had some changes there.
Do we have a plan now as to how many DCs we're going to have and where they're going to be as we are starting to figure out which stores to close? Yes we do Greg.
And we continue to work through that.
And the long and short of it is that we have some landlord issues with some of the legacy CARQUEST distribution centers.
The negotiations with those landlords will continue at least through the end of the year.
That impacts our ability to make some of the changes that we've wanted to.
What I can tell you is we have signed a lease for a new facility in Nashville so we'll be opening up what we consider to be our go-forward state-of-the-art DC in Nashville in 2017.
But we're still working through some works and negotiations that will – and at that point we'll be able to be a bit more transparent on what the exact changes are.
And then I guess a follow-on to that would be you found 50 stores about three months ago and now found another 30.
Understanding that it's hard to identify what the stores would be sort of conceptually from the top down should we be thinking that if 10% of the stores were over 100 bps of the comp miss I think I heard that that ultimately the number of stores that we should be rationalizing measures – it could be like say 500 given that's about 10% of the store base.
Am I thinking about that the right way? No I wouldn't make that linear connection.
I think if you look at that group of stores 400 and some odd stores clearly some of them are going to fall into the consolidation work that's been accelerated.
Some are going to be closures and some are simply going to be exception-managed.
So not all stores are bad stores on that list they're just not performing correctly.
So yes some of them will be addressed via actions we're taking in the fourth quarter; all will be addressed by some level of exception-management by our field team.
Great.
Well good luck there George and Mike.
Hope you enjoy retirement Darren and good luck.
Look forward to following up.
Thanks Greg.
Our next question comes from Seth Basham of Wedbush Securities.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot and good morning.
First of all good luck Darren.
It was great working with you.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question revolves around what's going on with brands in the stores.
George you alluded to brands that weren't resonating with commercial customers.
As you go forward do you think you have the right set of brands? Do you think you'll make some significant changes? Yes Seth we're very confident in our brand mix and really we don't have any brands that are being questioned.
Broadly we're happy with the house of brands that we've built and broadly but more importantly our customer base is as well.
That doesn't mean 100% agreement.
There's always some outliers there.
We switched from KYB to Monroe in ride control in CARQUEST stores.
There's always going to be some KYB loyalists out there but they're the minority.
So by and large we're very very pleased with the brand selection that we've built but there's going to be some outliers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then following up on Greg's question regarding the 10% of stores that were pretty impactful to your comps was there a common theme among them besides just weak performance? Was there some regional concentration some systems issues some distribution issues associated with those? Yes.
I mean the most common theme Seth is Midwest.
The majority of them tend to be concentrated in the Midwest.
Now there's a mix of rural and urban.
They're generally older stores a few of our new stores that are in the seven eight year range are in there as well.
But that's the most common thread is that they're Midwestern by nature and just a combination of both CARQUEST and Advance stores.
And if you look at the closures it's almost a split.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay thank you very much and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scot Ciccarelli of RBC Capital Markets.
Sir your line is open.
Hi guys.
Two questions.
First Mike can you explain what you mean by higher inventory expenses that impacted gross margin? I'm not sure if there's a nuance there.
And second I guess this is for George.
George can you give us an example of why commercial disruption would have been more severe in the third quarter than say the first when the changes were already implemented? Because in theory you would think the integration disruption should be moderating and not accelerating.
I guess I'm just not following why we've seen that deterioration.
Yes.
Hey Scot.
I'll start.
So what we mean by that is as we've talked about we're doing lots of product changeovers and we're doing consolidations and conversions.
And whenever you do that you're moving a lot of inventory around.
And what we mean by inventory expenses there's a couple of areas as we had some core value adjustments in relation to some of our vendors and we also had some defective inventory.
We think those are short-term items as we work through some of those items but we think they're short-term and our outlook reflects that in Q4 but we believe those are short-term.
On the commercial side I think we're just seeing a lag impact here that's been building during the course of the year.
So we're now in full stride in terms of doing the market work so there's a bit more going on market by market.
And again we've mentioned that there have been some fill-rate issues that certainly is the business that we're in but it's on the rise now and we believe we're working our way through it.
Mike just a follow-up.
You talk about defectives inventory et cetera.
Whether you know it or not initially are you guys sitting on a bunch of inventory that needs to get marked down cleared sent back to vendors et cetera? No.
No.
What I would tell you Scot is whenever you're doing a lot of inventory movement you're going to run into a few issues.
With defectives you're going to run into returns back to vendors.
We don't go into our programs with vendors on the phone here.
But we ran into a few issues with defectives higher than we planned and I think that's what it is.
It was a little bit higher than we planned.
But we'll work through that.
And the other thing that impacted our gross margin is we had about $5 million when we annualized the Hartford costs that weren't there last year.
Right.
I'll follow-up after.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Matt Fassler of Goldman Sachs.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
My first question relates to the move to a common platform presumably common systems platform at your corporate offices.
If you could talk about what the challenges in getting that finalized have meant tangibly for the business what your people have a harder time doing and once that's fully addressed how you think that will enhance operating results please.
Yes Matt I had a couple of things that are the three biggest projects that we're working on right now.
We have two sets of catalogs across our store operations.
As you know the Commercial business works out of a catalog day in and day out.
Advance's has been more of a legacy system and we don't have shared communication between those two catalogs yet.
We'll pilot that in Q1 of next year towards the end of the first quarter.
The biggest one is the integrated availability project which connects the inventory and sales systems between the stores and the distribution centers.
That's our work in progress and that's what keeps us on two different sets of both merchandising and replenishment systems.
So the biggest impact from that is you have two replenishment teams effectively one work a legacy CARQUEST system that's proprietary and one work a more mainstream replenishment system.
Obviously the latter is easier to staff for.
We can go find folks that have worked on these systems before.
It's fairly commonplace.
For the CARQUEST system it's not.
So it is difficult from a training standpoint a little bit of a longer ramp-up for the team.
So the change going forward is when we complete that work we will migrate to one replenishment team across the whole company.
We'll be on systems that are plainly understood by anybody in replenishment business we'll be in a much much better place.
What is the timing for getting those issues resolved in your view? There's a domino effect in terms of how these initiatives have to be sequenced.
The catalog again begins in Q1 of next year.
The point-of-sale system launches which is the dependency as well in the third quarter of next year toward the second half of next year and at the same time we're ready to start the pilot integrated availability project.
Got it.
By the way a follow-up on this point very quickly I know this has come up a bit before.
It sounds like the complexity of what you're trying to do is very significant.
How do you drive that with taking G&amp;A dollars out of the organization above and beyond the synergies that you initially contemplated associated with the deal? Presumably you hit a lot of the obvious redundancies there.
Does it make it harder to tackle this degree of difficulty if you're simultaneously trying to take out more head count? No.
There's a small impact.
I will tell you that if you look at where dual systems impact staffing or impact G&amp;A it is pretty simple.
It's on our accounting team it's on our replenishment team and to a small degree it's on our IT team.
That's the extent of it.
So that is a measurable fairly finite relatively in the overall scheme of things small amount of G&amp;A.
And we have a large opportunity.
So we are able to do what we said we were going to do with the 12% work cut our costs back.
We're keenly aware of that.
We're very focused on it.
We've made good progress on that but we have more to do.
But we have a pretty good handle on when the timing is that we can take that additional G&amp;A out and how much it is and it's not overly material.
Got it.
One very quick other question on the numbers.
So there's a bit of noise from Worldpac this quarter.
There's FX obviously the CARQUEST business is under some pressure.
I'm not sure if we're able to look at the business this way anymore but if you were to isolate legacy Advance stores and think about the underlying same-store sales local currency that you think you're generating from the parts of the business that are least impacted least damaged certainly by the work that you're doing any sense as to where those might be running? Yes.
If you look at the better performing elements it is the Southeast and Northeastern U.S.
and certainly markets that we mentioned like Texas that have improved and done a good job.
They're either – in the case of Texas you're through the integration.
In the case of the Southeast you really haven't begun too much of the heavy lifting of it yet.
So those are markets that are all performing from a comp standpoint better than the rest of the organization.
As for Worldpac Worldpac was a tailwind to comps for the first half of the year and really for the better part of the first two quarters almost entirely.
That is just the buildup of new branches.
So we said we're going to open up 12 new Worldpac branches this year.
In the first quarter that number was small enough that they were still able to drive some good comp growth.
By the end of the second quarter and now the third quarter you're up to nine branches opened.
So the movement of customers has become much more significant.
The growth story is tremendous.
But it's become a bit of a headwind in terms of comps.
Got it.
Thank you.
And Darren all the best to you.
Thank you Matt.
Our next question comes from Dan Wewer of Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Jack I wanted to ask you about Starboard's position.
What was the thought process in their receiving three board positions given they own less than 4% of the company? And then second as part of their presentation on September 30th they called it unlocking value.
They make a case for selling the Worldpac division given that it's getting lost in the Advance organization.
Now with Worldpac beginning to see cannibalization impacts on same store sales what are your thoughts about their proposal of perhaps putting that business up for sale? Well let me start with the second part of your question and thanks for your question.
Worldpac is a strategic asset of the company and one of the highest potential growth vehicles that we have.
So there is no current feeling that we should not keep Worldpac and grow Worldpac.
As far as the involvement now with Starboard and Jeff on the board we've had a number of meetings and conversations with Jeff and his team and personally our entire board has been impressed with Jeff's approach to business.
And he has a definite commitment to excellence and importantly he's willing and able and going to learn our business in a deep way to the point of visiting stores and getting to really know the business.
All of that is going to bring a fresh perspective to us.
And we think it's going to be good for the company and all of our shareholders.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our final question today comes from Mike Baker of Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Couple of questions.
Just to clarify.
So this year it looks like you're reducing your implied margin guidance by about 40 basis points to 50 basis points from what it otherwise would have been in your previous EPS guidance.
Yet you're keeping the 12% for next year.
So is the implication there that you just think the issues right now are timing and that you're going to make it all back up at some point next year? Is that the right interpretation? Yes it is Mike.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay well then I guess to follow-up on the timing question I heard a couple things.
In some ways you said you went too fast so you have to slow things down.
Bit off more than you can chew.
On the other hand there are a couple of instances where you are talking about accelerating the pace and going even faster.
So I'm trying to reconcile those two things.
Some areas you went too fast some areas not fast enough? Can you help me put those together? Yes that's correct.
And I'll give an example of an area where we think that going faster might be the right thing to do for the business.
We've laid on a consolidation timeline that goes for several years.
If you look at some of the stores that we're scheduled to consolidate in the later half of 2016 they're just not performing well.
They become a drag on the business and they're just – we knew that they would have a good financial outcome when they consolidated but right now as a stand-alone business it's a drag on comp it's a drag on profitability and it's again tough on our field leadership team.
So we're pulling those things forward.
We think that's a healthy change for the business and we know that we have a team that can do that consolidation work.
It's not construction this time.
You're now moving the team into another store and shutting down the building that we're capable of taking that on and taking some destruction out of the system.
On the flip side there's some more process-based work that centers as well as the stores that we think we can back off the pacing on.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that makes sense.
One more if I could ask.
You spoke about understanding or acknowledging there's some – I guess Mike specifically spoke about acknowledging there's some structural issues between you guys and the other guys in terms of mix customer mix et cetera.
In your internal thoughts what do you think the structural differences are and can you quantify that? In other words maybe you can't get to the other guys 18% to 19% margins but where ultimately do you think you can get? We're going to build a view internally of where we think we can go as an organization and work our way backwards.
Clearly I think you know some of the structural differences.
There's differences in our leased versus owned versus some of our competitors that has a difference.
We acknowledge we have a ways to go in terms of closing this gap.
We've set 12% out there as the first objective to begin to get there.
We know that there's space well beyond that.
We're going to come to our own internal conclusion on what that number is and again work our way backwards.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for the time on the call and the color.
I appreciate it.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the call back to Zaheed Mawani for any final comments.
Finance Planning Analysis and Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Cheryl and thanks to the audience for participating in our third quarter earnings conference call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
That concludes your call today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining us.
Welcome to the Advance Auto Parts Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
If you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
Before we begin Zaheed Mawani of Investor Relations will make a brief statement concerning forward-looking statements that will be made on this call.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call to discuss our fourth quarter results.
I'm joined this morning by George Sherman our President and Interim CEO; and Mike Norona our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I would like to remind you that our comments today contain forward-looking statements we intend to be covered by and we claim the protection under the Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements address future events developments or results and are subject to risks uncertainties and assumptions that may cause our results to differ materially.
Our comments today will also include certain non-GAAP measures including certain financial measures reported on a comparable or adjusted basis to exclude impacts of cost in connection with the integration of General Parts International and the recurring amortization of General Parts’ intangible assets.
Please refer to our earnings press release and accompanying financial statements issued today for important information and additional detail regarding these forward-looking statements and the reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures referenced in today's call.
The company intends these forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of this conference call and does not undertake to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Now let me turn the call over to George our Chief Executive Officer.
George? Thanks Zaheed and good morning everyone.
We will take a different approach on today's call.
First Mike and I will briefly address fourth quarter performance.
Then I will share my perspective regarding our outlook and how we plan to drive improved execution and results going forward.
We will leave plenty of time at the end for your questions.
Let me get right into it.
Mike will address our fourth quarter results in more detail in a moment but at a high level our worse than expected top line performance reflected both the negative impact of warmer weather and the continued impact of our efforts to move quickly to capture efficiencies through integration which inadvertently led to disruption in servicing our customers and supporting our stores.
This combination of factors resulted in negative comparable sales of 2.5%.
We are not satisfied with these results.
We have however made considerable progress and believe many of the major execution challenges are behind us.
That being said we still have work to do to drive efficiency across the company.
As I said we have made progress and let me be clear that we fully understand that we are in improvement mode.
Several big parts of integration are now completed including corporate consolidations the integration of our field teams and pricing alignment work.
In addition we have completed the first major tranche of the CARQUEST market conversions and substantially all of our product alignment work.
We also made significant progress in our cost cutting initiatives in 2015 delivering over $50 million in incremental cost synergy savings and driving efficiency by closing approximately 80 underperforming stores.
Through actions to-date we have mitigated the disruption caused by integration work and we are moving ahead with our plans to deliver improved and more consistent performance.
Going forward we will focus on continuing the CARQUEST market conversion program and building on our prior success which has enabled us to deliver mid single-digit comps across multiple markets where conversions have only taken place.
We're also doing the work to align our supply chain and stores systems.
As we exit 2015 we begin to see improvement in our store level availability.
In the field our teams are refocusing in our base business and away from the integration efforts that dominated much of 2015.
We are clear eyed about the work that lies ahead but confident in our ability to enhance our efficiency performance and profitability.
In a few moments I will talk about our plans to implement more field-centric organization drive additional cost reductions and relentlessly pursue opportunities to increase efficiency across our operations.
But first let me turn it over to Mike to provide some brief context on the quarter.
Mike? Thanks George and good morning everyone.
We delivered comparable cash EPS of $1.22 for the fourth quarter despite the softer than expected sales.
This result included a $0.03 hit from foreign currency and a $0.03 benefit from the incremental synergy realization.
Fourth quarter net sales declined 2.6% with comparable sales down 2.5%.
Comparable store sales were negatively impacted by approximately 90 basis points due to the timing of the New Year's day holiday which was in our 53rd week last year and 46 basis points of negative foreign currency impact partially offset by favorable impact from our CARQUEST store consolidations.
The unseasonably warm start to the winter impacted both our commercial and DIY businesses particularly in batteries and cold weather related hard parts categories such as starters alternators and related products.
With fewer customers seeking cold weather products this also resulted in lower add-on sales.
Partially offsetting this performance was continued strong results in our brake business across both our commercial and DIY businesses.
In our commercial business performance was primarily driven by mid single digit sales declines in our Great Lakes and Plains cold weather markets while the mid-South and Southeast fared better.
The softness in seasonal category sales was partially offset by a modest increase in our commercial ticket size and the strength I noted in our brake business.
Nonetheless we continue to expand our customer base with our national accounts business growing in the mid-single digits and TECHNET which partners with independent repair shops adding 600 new members in the quarter.
Within DIY strong brake results only partially offset the softness in battery and battery accessory sales as well as other winter seasonal categories resulting in a sequential decline.
Despite the softness we continue to expand our Speed Perks program which now has over 10 million members and will be an important driver of our ability to increase customer loyalty going forward.
Our gross profit rate decline of 15 basis points was primarily the result of supply chain expense deleverage due to the comparable store sales decline partially offset by lower shrink expenses.
Our fourth quarter comparable SG&amp;A rate increased 33 basis points year-over-year primarily due to the expense deleverage from the comp store sales decline partially offset by our continued cost reduction initiatives and disciplined efforts to lower administrative and support cost.
All in fourth quarter operating income on a comparable basis decreased 8.2% to $157.6 million and a comparable operating margin decreased 48 basis points over the same period last year to 7.7%.
Free cash flow for 2015 was $454.9 million versus $480.5 million last year driven by a decrease in our AP ratio to 76.7% versus 78.6% last year.
This decrease was principally driven by transitional inventory growth resulting from our product integration work the CARQUEST consolidations work and the growth in the Worldpac branches.
Turning to the balance sheet and leverage adjusted debt to EBITDAR was 2.5 times at year end.
During the quarter we have paid $80 million in debt and remained at or below our maximum stated leverage ratio of 2.5 times.
We are committed to preserving a balanced and disciplined approach to capital application to drive shareholder value while maintaining our investment-grade ratings.
We remain focused on taking the actions required to achieve our 12% adjusted operating income margin target.
To reach this objective we will deliver improved gross margins and reduce cost by approximately 100 basis points through a combination of G&amp;A reductions and improved store productivity.
This includes capturing the remaining $50 million of our previously disclosed $160 million in cost synergies.
Before I turn it back to George let me touch briefly on the remaining integration initiatives we are pursuing in 2016.
We're focused on two areas.
One continued execution of CARQUEST market conversion programs and two development and testing to enable us to combine our AP and CARQUEST supply chain and store systems into one network.
We're also pursuing supply chain optimization work including the closing of our Sutton Massachusetts distribution center.
In conjunction with these efforts we expect to incur additional one-time costs of $75 million to $90 million in 2016 including $65 million to $75 million related to ongoing integration efforts and $10 million to $15 million related to supply chain optimization work.
We are pleased with our progress in our CARQUEST conversion markets nearly all of which are experiencing comp increases which average in the mid to upper single digits in the fourth quarter.
This year we plan to execute approximately 350 market conversion projects.
In terms of our store network and supply chain projects we expect to begin in-store system pilots by early quarter two and supply chain pilots in early quarter four.
As previously indicated full-scale rollout is expected to be in 2017.
With that let me turn it back to George to discuss our plans for 2016 and beyond.
George? Thanks Mike.
We have a tremendous platform across commercial and DIY and I am confident in our ability to drive improved profitability and generate increased shareholder value.
As I noted at the outset our plans include implementing a more field-centric organization to drive increased customer satisfaction and improved repeat business and revenue while reducing cost and relentless pursuing opportunities to drive additional operational efficiencies We are company made up of approximately 5 300 hyper local businesses.
In order to be successful we must meet the needs of our customers at a local level by aggressively empowering our teams to make decisions in their local markets and providing the appropriate operational infrastructure to executive against those decisions.
Developing a field-centric system is not a concept but it’s something that we are in the early stages of executing.
There are three key pillars that underpin our objectives as a field-centric organization.
One providing superior availability to ensure we deliver the right part at the right place at the right time.
Two providing the right infrastructure to achieve outstanding customer service with flawless execution.
And three providing the right tools and incentives to develop focused and inspired teams with the desire to win.
Let me share a few insights on each.
Superior availability having the right part in the right place at the right time is essential to winning a great commercial business and also benefits DIY.
Because we run approximately 5 300 local commercial businesses serving the customer requires input from and empowerment of local store teams.
Trying to manage those 5 300 businesses with central office is both inefficient and ineffective.
We are changing that.
In order to drive more effective local execution we are investing to improve inventory coverage to support our stores while simultaneously developing a field-centric process that empowers the general managers of the stores to make decisions and tailor their inventories to best serve the unique local customer base.
We are piloting this process in five regions and while it is very early in the program we are seeing high levels of store engagement and believe it will translate to improved commercial sales over time.
The goal is clear having the right part in the right place at the right time.
We will continue to leverage our in-market hub and super-hub stores and expand delivery frequency to stores from our DCs but we will do so on the most efficient basis.
We are making sure to rethink our supply chain and delivery frequency by first determining the best answer for each store and its customers.
[indiscernible] provide the best in-stock and availability and therefore the best overall service for our customer.
Actively determining the optimal goal for the stores we can then determine the most effective and efficiency supply chain delivery process and system.
That means where it will make sense to have daily delivery we will have it but daily delivery is not an answer by itself.
Delivery scheduling is a means to provide the stores with what they need to satisfy the customer.
Field delivery will not be justified for every store.
We are looking at delivery frequency end market availability outgoing frequency and evaluating which combination is the best local market answer to enable us to serve our customers most effectively.
Second outstanding customer service.
We are laser-focused on achieving excellence in commercial through flawless execution.
Unlike the retail side of the business our interactions with commercial customers take place on a daily basis.
We believe we do a great job focusing on commercial and we will naturally build the availability and the can do attitude in the stores will also help retail.
With average commercial sales of approximately $730 000 per program we are already among the industry leaders but we can do more as we shift our identity from a retail culture to a commercial focus.
We know that as we do a better job servicing our commercial customers we will then drive frequency.
To be clear while it will be a commercial-first organization we will not lose focus on DIY.
Commercial is our most significant growth opportunity but we believe our commercial focus will have synergistic benefits to DIY because the same fundamentals apply across the businesses.
We continue to be focused on growing our Speed Perks membership program and satisfying our DIY customers through our knowledgeable team members in well-placed locations.
In 2016 we will be investing to further develop great commercial field and store teams deliver focused sales and service execution and scale key programs such as our strategic accounts and membership programs like TECHNET and Pro Rewards.
Our third pillar having focused and aspired team is about inspiring and powering those teams by providing them incentives and support that positions them to win.
Our first step is to provide our teams with broader authority as business owners.
We are improving our communication approach to support the sales organization versus an operational organization.
As part of this I engage directly every quarter with our field organization leadership to address business priorities yield centric leadership and changes throughout the organization in an unfiltered manner.
I want to make sure they hear directly from me about our goals expectations and challenges as we develop greater accountability and transparency across the organization.
In addition we're positioning our stores to have a simplified and customer focused operating model.
We are also working to limit disruptions across the system so our store and regions can focus on the vital business priorities we have ahead of us this year.
We are also testing new compensation approaches to support fuel centric ownership mentality.
As we execute against these three pillars we are focused on continuing to drive improvements across the organization to deliver profitable growth.
Let me clear but we see opportunities to take cost out to improve efficiency that does not affect the customer experience.
We will move in an aggressive pace and prioritize our actions accordingly.
This means not only capturing remaining cost saving synergies we highlighted but continuing to look for other ways to further reduce costs.
It means examining structural changes to optimize our supply chain such that our plans to open a new DC in Nashville Tennessee and close our DC in Southern Massachusetts.
We will continue to focus on improving productivity and profitability across our strong base.
We are now applying a higher threshold of performance acceptability to stores and continue to look at all parts of our business to improve returns.
We expect to take further actions to address underperforming assets and unnecessary costs.
We will make sure to analyze all customer facing cost saving opportunities with a strong balance towards improving service levels.
We are looking at all areas and want to make the best decision possible.
This work does not happen overnight but we will follow the analysis where it leads and take the appropriate steps to continue to improve performance and drive value.
The bottom line is clear we must drive improved profitability as we grow our topline.
Our comps will grow up and our customers can rely in us to get them the parts they want when they want them.
We must execute flawlessly for the customer by becoming a commercial first business with leading parts availability great teams and efficient operations.
Turning to our outlook for 2016.
We expect modest topline growth driven by comparable store sales in the low single digits.
We also expect to open 65 to 75 new stores including four to six Worldpac branches and one new Worldpac distribution center.
At the same time we are maintaining tight control over costs and we are laser focused on achieving stated 12% adjusted operating margin goal for 2016 which is not changed.
In closing the changes we are making to our organization are both real and substantial.
We began to make the shift to operating our businesses more locally and will keep advancing that agenda.
Our teams know our customers best and they’re embracing their new responsibilities as we drive more local decision-making.
I've been equally impressed with the pace and commitment in which our store support center teams have enthusiastically shifted decision-making.
I see the responsibility in some cases while accepting greater accountability in others with a singular focus on winning the market.
I'm also encouraged by the ability of our organization to learn and adapt.
Ensuring we don't repeat mistakes of either action or inaction.
We are making the right decisions to change our profit formula to yield better outcomes.
Finally before we open up to your questions I’d like to take a moment to thank all of our team members for their continued focus and commitment to customer service.
With that let’s open up the call for questions? Thanks.
Good morning.
First question is can you comment on how Q1 is running and if you're seeing some improvement? Is that attributable to weather getting better or something strategic meaning execution is starting to get better? If you look at Q1 so far sequentially we’ve seen some progress but it is not up to what our expectations are right now.
We started of flat we’re actually in a period now where we’re going up against our strongest comps from last year.
So we are seeing some moment we expect more we have a plan that we intend to execute throughout the year.
So we're not sitting back hoping for the weather to change we are executing fundamental execution issues that we think will affect our business really around the availability in service areas.
So early on really premature call again we’re only a period or so into the year but we have every expectation that we’re going to begin to get them up to our expectations.
And I will ask my follow-up and just a clarification on what - on that as a question.
The improvement you're seeing in - or you said flat but not up to your expectations.
Is that in weather markets getting better or did you see maybe something that at the margin on execution get better? And then my real follow-up is if you talk about the distribution model the supply chain do you feel any different about how it positions today or and functionality when you bought it anything capacity Howard said of geographically your ability to service the entire store base? I’ll start with the sales Simeon and say that just broadly again we’re seeing obviously pockets of strength and pockets of weakness as we always do.
So there is always going to be some variability geographically but broadly still not where we wanted to be.
Still we’re working on improving it overall.
From a supply chain standpoint the biggest change we've seen so far and we’ve mentioned this is obviously we have 1300 stores now from advance that are on multi-day delivery and we've made changes to the - upgrades to the AP network in terms of DCs.
We've also put capacity adjustments in some of the Carquest distribution centers as well.
Okay and just to clarify if I'm not cut off then back to the comp question.
As you note comps are to be expected to be flat - I'm sorry positive low single digits by the end of the year.
Is it a sequential ramp or is it very back-end loaded by the way you guys are modeling it out? It’s not back-end loaded it’s a sequential improvement along the way it has to do with obviously some of the trends from last year that we're going up against but it has more to do with the initiatives we are executing.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
It's going to be about bridging the margin from the 10.2% that you achieved in last year to the 12% in 2016 so you're going to need about 180 basis points of expansion.
It sounds like you're going to get 100 basis points from the cost reduction initiative another 50 basis points from the synergy realization.
And then are we to assume the last portion is from gross margin expansion and how visible is that SG&amp;A improvement that you are expecting for 2016 so if your sales fall short of your expectation what's the sensitivity to your margin if that happens? Obviously our plan is for 12% which we recognize - we are clearly improvement mode on.
So it requires a combination of working the cost lever working gross margin and clearly there is a levers component to it as well.
We've gone to great efforts to work hard on the cost components of this and we’re working equally or doubly hard on sales right now.
Cost we can control right away so we’ve made some improvements and you're right we're going to take a big chunk out of our cost structure.
And we're going to continue to look for ways in and begin to find more and more of it.
So we’re not stopping at 100 basis points or stopping at any one fixed number we keep looking to fund more and more cost to take to streamline this operation build efficiency and really frankly limit the amount of work load that it gets send on to our stores.
So we will make adjustments on a lower comp if that in fact is would happens we do clearly have expectations around leverage as part of this - a part of 12% And George it sounds like it’s part of the margin expectations; you are anticipating some benefit from a change in the store operating model and the pilot of the change in store compensation model.
What have you seen already from those tests and how quickly do you expect that you will be able to roll them out? From a store operating standpoint Michael we are beginning to see some change especially from the empowerment initiatives.
So I think one of the biggest things that we're working on right now is a quick move toward fuel centricity.
We recognized that we won very very local businesses and they are all unique in their own way.
We feel that we can get things 90% plus right out of the support center but we’re empowering our teams to take up the rest of the way to 100%.
So they now have more and more autonomy over adding SKUs to their assortment and adding more product to the supply chain system.
We think that will have some of the most immediate benefits.
The single selling model is you know we are in sustained mode on that one.
The team is becoming more and more comfortable with it and we believe that fundamentally is the right thing to do is serve all customers that walk in or call our stores.
And as a business that's been quite outspoken about being commercial first everyone needs to be willing and able to be pick up the telephone and help the commercial customer or hop into a truck and make a delivery.
So we're pleased with that aspect of it.
The compensation pilot is just that.
It's a pilot in a limited amount of stores that is not having much impact nor it is intended to right now across the entire chain of stores.
It’s a learning event for us right now and my focus is to get the empowerment to the field that allow us for a true sense of business ownership before putting in a compensation system that rewards business ownership.
Thanks a lot and good morning.
Just to follow-up on some of the earlier questions to make sure I understand your bridge from where you're running right now with comp store sales-wise to a low single digits.
In terms of the largest drivers of that improvement does it have to do with how you're going about changing the skew availability to stores or there are other support initiatives that you have that you think will be the drivers here? It's a combination of both.
So if you ask is it SKU availability we're going to absolutely say yes to that question every time.
Our business fundamentally is quite simple a customer asks us if we have the part and can we get it to them quickly and that is how we operate and that's how we rum and that's how we will drive comps over time.
So yes to having the part is absolutely critical for us and getting availability right and we feel that we’ve made some good progress on that is absolutely job one for us.
That being said there are the initiatives that have an impact on comp sales during the course of the year.
Certainly our consolidation of Carquest Stores will impact our comp sales.
The Speed Perks Program at 10 million members will impact our comp sales.
More investments in inventory and hubs will affect our comp stores and the move to multi-day delivery will affect comp sales as well.
So we have a waterfall of activities that we’ve built up that we think will drive comp sales methodically but clearly it starts with availability.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you and just a follow-up to that.
Do you think about your progression in comps in 2015 and the deterioration over the year? When you diagnosed that how much of it is due to lost customers on the commercial side and where do you think your ability us to win back those lost customers? I probably make a distinction Seth and say that its lost business on the commercial side as opposed to lost customers on the commercial side.
If we lose some of course we did we know that.
But we point to categories like our strength in brakes as an indicator that we still have a healthy base of commercial customers who are still buying from us.
We need to sell them the entire car.
So going back and just trying to re-establish connections with customers is difficult but trying to expand our base of business with existing customers is a more attainable objective certainly.
Good morning guys.
So last quarter you guys referred to roughly 10% of your sales base comping down over 10%.
That was the 120 basis point drag you referenced and I think the suggestion was those stores were undergoing significant changes but you've also referred to stores in markets that comp in the mid- to upper single digits where they have undergone all the changes and the businesses had a chance to settle into a natural rhythm.
I guess what I'm curious about is better understanding the cadence of sales changes in a specific market.
In other words what happens to comps when the changes first start? How long do these disruptions last? And then when do you start to see the improvements? And I know that there's a bunch of different items that have been obviously along the way.
Yes thanks Scot.
Good morning.
Let me try to take that in sequence.
I think if you look at first of all our comments around what you’re describing our outlier stores which was a group of stores that disproportionately affected our sales miss couple of actions there.
Number one as we previously mentioned and mentioned in the script we closed some stores during the course of the fourth quarter.
You can fully expect that there were among those bottom 10% performers.
So that’s a small group of stores and that’s not the entire difference.
We also are moving into a period right now where we are currently executing accelerated consolidations of poor performing stores.
So in this case specific Carquest stores that were not meeting our expectations that we have now begun to consolidate into Advance Auto Parts stores and that will solve for another tranche of the stores.
There are still outlier stores and there will be.
So our field teams has continued to work on the performance of some of our outliers.
As you look at the consolidation or the market conversions and looked at results we are generally pleased and we are pretty much pleased across the board.
So that number that initial number that you referred to clearly inflated due to the Carquest conversions.
So once the market begins to undergo conversion there is as you would expect a negative sales impact.
And it really lasts for anywhere from five to six weeks.
So we see this period of about a month to a month and half when there is actually physical construction going on in the stores team members are changing parts are changing in some cases that we see comps go down and then we see it ramp back up.
And our effort has been to take that time period and compress it as much as possible and we have.
So in the early consolidations it was a longer period of time.
So we have seen that narrow down pretty nicely overtime to the point where and obviously we will work to continue and improve that to be shorter and shorter.
But it’s about five to six weeks that there is a negative impact and then the store begins to merge with better results and then generally shows up in the form of double-digit comps showing up clearly in consolidations and anywhere from single - mid-single to high-single to up to double-digit comps in our conversion stores.
And so are there an - George are there any markets where you have done the conversion but haven't seen that kind of result? You know of all the conversions that we have done there are one maybe two markets where it’s been strictly limited to just conversion not consolidating two boxes but just conversion that we have seen flattish results and that we are working to improve.
By and large the overwhelming majority of the markets have had kind of results that we wanted.
Got you.
And understood.
And then secondly payables to inventory ratio it's obviously a huge cash flow driver for your industry.
You guys are still performing well below your direct peers.
What's the right way to think about that kind of ratio going forward and the impact on the cash flow? Thanks.
Yes look we obviously want to work to continue to drive our AP ratio.
We will focus on taking inventory out.
We do have some specific vendor focuses.
So as you look at our AP ratio you look at our base of business we have a fairly targeted list of those that we are negotiating with to make some changes on AP ratio.
At the same time we are being very clear that availability is job one.
So we don’t want to send mixed signals to our team.
We have got to be in stock we have got to have the parts that the customer wants when they want it.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
Thanks.
George on the sales lift in the conversion stores I guess you're calling out 5% to 12% increases is that primarily the do-it-yourself revenues kicking in with the availability of the advanced do-it-yourself assortment in those Carquest stores or is it the commercial revenues picking up? Dan it’s a combination of both.
So when we talk about our conversion store we are simply rebranding.
We are going into Carquest for making it an Advance Auto Parts store.
We are enhancing the sales floor in those cases.
So we do see and we do expect to see a DIY lift in those stores and we have been seeing it.
That said that brings an additional commercial business as well so we have been pleased on both fronts.
But you’re right as we convert stores our real expectation is around trying to bring a little bit of DIY to a store that’s historically not had.
And on the consolidation so are you still seeing 70% to 80% of the commercial business in that consolidated store transferring to the remaining Advance store? Yes we’re Dan 70% closer to the right number.
And of the 325 to 350 consolidations and conversions for this year how does that split out between the two? I know the economics are very different between a consolidation and a conversion but so how would that split out between those two types of projects? Roughly 50-50.
50-50.
And then the last question I have on the expense reduction goal of 100 basis points and then if you assume that that 50 basis points of the synergies maybe that flows into expenses as well that would imply that expense dollars are roughly flat it looks like in 2016 compared to 2015 adjusting for the 53rd week.
How much of that’s already been achieved through closing the 80 underperforming stores through the consolidations at the corporate office.
How much of that expense savings has already been achieved and how much of it has yet to be achieved? Dollars are actually down so not flat but down the last year and we continue to accelerate on that and look for more opportunities.
And I want to be clear we won’t do things that’s caught in a sales muscle.
So when we talk about SG&amp;A we are primarily talking about G&amp;A and we continue to look for more and more opportunities but if we make substantial progress dollars will be down.
So the biggest variable in achieving the 12% EBIT rate whether or not you achieve that really is a function of whether or not the comps are flat or maybe up 2%.
And then to a lesser extent whether or not you can deliver on the gross margin gain it sounds like the cost reduction therefore that's - there's no way that you can miss on that.
Yes we know the size of the improvement that it represents 10% to 12% and it certainly would be aided quite a bit by the top line that we expect.
So the leverage portion of this is important but we have clearly over-indexed on the expense side.
Right.
Okay great thanks and good luck.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to make sure I understood the charges Mike that you outlined and sort of what's incremental and what was in the plan and what I should compare that to.
So the incremental $75 million to $90 million of charges would that compare to what was $127 million in 2015 and $82 million in 2014? Yes so Greg we gave an outlook of $75 million to $90 million and $65 million to $75 million of that would be comparable to the last year portion and those relate to the market conversions and the IT projects around the catalog and the store systems.
So those are primarily the driver as we think in 2016 and those are comparable to the one-time cost we would have seen last year.
And then the $10 million to $15 million is our supply optimization work that really gets going this year and a big driver of that is the Sutton DC that we are going to be closing down this year.
Got it.
And my follow-up will be going back to the sales trend George which is do you have a - what really happened with DIY versus do-it-for-me in the quarter? You gave some nice category issues in some of the regions but if you look at basically what were the two sides of the business or what were the sales however you want to cut it.
Yes I mean really we had softness in both sides of the business and when we talk about weather which we don’t like talking about that clearly represents more of an impact on DIY in specifically a category like batteries.
So we had some great strength that we went up against in batteries and we didn’t see the cold this time around and that just based on the one line alone has a pretty significant impact on the DIY business but it was both parts weather on the DIY side.
And Mike just a follow-up to the previous one just do you have an EPS range guidance that falls out of this? I mean if you just take the margin and the comp you get to something like $9.50 at least that's my back-of-the-envelope math but am I still missing something there? Yes.
So I am not going to comment on that Greg but what I will tell you is we gave today - we gave in the release our assumptions and they reflect the most important outcomes that we are focused on this year which is improving our profitability and improving our sales and we remain committed to our 12% target.
Given the variability and the range of our comps and trying to predict where we will fall in that range and as we are building momentum and also the structural moves that we are going to continue to do to improve to move to more field-centric and localized business we have chosen not to try to predict an outlook range.
But we think we have given you the assumptions that reflect the outcomes that we are expecting this year.
Great.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Good morning thank you for taking my questions.
First part is a bigger picture.
You talk about the field-centric approach and two of the categories being availability and infrastructure.
And what I'm wondering is how much does 2016 cover for those two buckets versus how much will be left to get you where you really want to be in 2017 and 2018? And I'm just trying to understand is this a shift in terms of trajectory of where you were taking your business and is it now another two or three years to get you where you need to be? No Tony.
It’s George I’d call it a stair-step approach.
I mean we have been talking about customer our field centricity for well over 18 months we have just accelerated our pace pretty substantially.
So I would not look at this as a multi-year rebuilding process but I will look at it as an evolution that’s already begun and that we have taken very substantial steps toward accelerating in the past quarter.
So it really is - I mean we are not trying to flip how we buy our inventory merchandise.
We are simply giving our team in the field an ability to take a limited portion based on what they see as specific need for their customers and get it right and we just don’t feel like 5 300 times over.
We can have a level of exactitude out of those office that reflects what’s happening in the field and we want to empower our field team to make - to put in those difference makers to get it from maybe 90% to 100% correct.
So hyper local business especially for commercial and we feel like the team needs to have a say on how they are assorted what the quantities look like because they know the changes to the businesses faster than our systems were able to detect them.
And then on that so it sounds like the systems going into next year should be in place for what you need? Yes I mean I think the systems are very quickly falling in the place right now.
So we are moving very very fast on this again we do not look at this as a multi-year project we look at this as a shift in some decision rights we look at this as being a more effective listening organization and we think it properly orients around our whole what matters most which is our customer and our store teams.
Okay.
And then I guess the one follow-up here is on the infrastructure.
Do you have an update on how you would see this infrastructure best in place to meet the needs of fulfilling and availability? I mean what changes still remain in order to get you the fill rates that you're still not at? Yes Tony I think if you look at multi-delivery for instance we said I think that we would try to tailor that to our specific customers’ needs and there is a formula in every market that we think is the right outcome that's best to serve our customer.
That maybe 5X delivery that could be 3X delivery.
That may be five hub runs a day.
That may be seven hub runs a day.
That may be an in-market super hub may not be.
So it is just it is calibrating our market needs to the needs of the customers the pace of the commercial business and making sure that it’s right.
So we still continue to work to the formula we feel great about some markets and we clearly recognize that we have opportunities in other markets.<br> Okay.
But you have enough distribution capacity in place it's just reworking that or do you still think you're going to need to be adding as we move forward? We have the infrastructure in place we will upgrade three DCs in 2016.
So we will begin to add further capacity to those facilities.
We’ll also add seven new superhubs in 2016.
So we will look and we will find those market opportunities where they exist and will make those changes but largely we feel we have the infrastructure in place.
Okay great.
Thanks for your time.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
My first question is just to quantify the number of stores that are in that the conversion markets that are generating those mid-single digit to high single digit increases and then just to quantify the number of stores that you would expect to enter similar stage of integration or emerge from the similar stage of integration in ‘16? Matt we’ve touched roughly one-third of our stores with the conversion consolidation relocation activity.
So about a third of the Carquest stores that needed to be addressed.
We will hit 350 more this year and as I mentioned earlier about a 50-50 split between conversions and consolidations.
So some of those will just merge with an Advance store and drop onto the system.
So the rough number of stores that's comping mid to high single are you saying that's a third of the Carquest stores? It's not quite that high of a number.
Remember we'd done 100 early consolidations then we did during 2015 and we will do about 175 more in 2016.
These are conversions.
So it's about 150 of the stores in the chain but not those numbers.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then my second question just big picture philosophically you seem to have two big efforts happening simultaneously.
The first is the conversion of the Carquest chain and then the upgrading of execution on a number of levels? And the second is an effort to take out costs.
Now understanding that you've got an SG&amp;A ratio opportunity versus some of your peers it seems like those two efforts are somewhat or can be somewhat an opposition.
It's certainly much harder to improve execution and generate topline as you're taking cost out of the business.
Is there a thought to focusing on the operational improvement to stabilize the topline prior to accelerating those cost reductions? Matt there is an effort to separate the taking cost off from affecting the topline.
So we are looking very much non-customer focused activities so take things like indirect procurement.
Areas of the business like that.
Looking at the store portfolio as we've done take out ineffective assets along the way.
We are laser focused on improving topline performance that is absolutely job one and we feel that we have our field team on the point for that.
Field team drives the sales improvement and the corporate team is here to support on the cost outside we've gone more towards G&amp;A and the corporate teams take more of a lead in that activity.
So we think that they are compatible.
We absolutely will not let ourselves cut in the muscle that affects sales ability.
Got it.
Thank you so much guys.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So first a clarification question on the comp side.
So you mentioned the cadence.
Curious if the New Year's and leap day - New Year's shift and the leap day affect the first quarter? And then I have a deeper question.
They don't.
They don't.
They offset each other's.
So the low single digit for the year doesn't include any benefit from the calendar? That's correct.
Okay.
And then you mentioned the geographical dispersion in comps.
For the Southern and Southeast markets and broadly the non-cold-weather markets did they actually comp positive? And how was the sequential performance in those markets relative to the third quarter because it sounds like in the in-store inventory availability did get better certainly from a very low point earlier in the year.
If you look at I think we call that our strength areas.
Certainly the Southeast was among our stronger markets.
Look at areas like Charlotte Atlanta Tennessee some were better performing markets.
As for the improvement in availability we talked about adding inventory on our last call which was to happen during the course of Q4.
So from a sequencing standpoint I wouldn't look at it as though it dramatically improved the moment we've said it but that over the course of the three months between calls you saw more and more inventory come into the system.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up if you go back to what it sounds like Carquest was comping or growing sales at on a per store basis prior to the acquisition it sounded like they were - it seems like they were ones and twos and certainly since this acquisition it seems like that's deteriorated.
So can you talk about - that sounds like shared loss.
So is there something structural about Carquest that's driving that share loss that part of the investments that you're making into those stores and into the supply chain are meant to fix? Thanks.
Yeah.
I would call the trend of Carquest pre-and post-integration to be relatively comparable.
It's about the same as it was before.
There are many Carquest stores that we're not investing in at all yet.
There is still work done on the road.
So I don't believe that there is anything that's caused anything meaningful kind of change in Carquest trajectory by virtue of the integration.
Maybe there are stores that we've gone in physical construction.
So those conversion stores did see that six-week impact on sales that I mentioned earlier but then a lift afterwards.
But as far as a broad-brush trend of Carquest stores having lesser performance than pre-acquisition that's not the case.
Okay but I guess the relative performance to what your commercial experience was or what Auto Zones or O'Reilly are not that it seems like they were underperforming so it was - was it the lack of DIY was it the lack of investment by the prior management team? What would you diagnose that underperformance in that in those stores relative to the industry? Yes.
I call it the latter I mean I think that if you look at their performance pre-acquisition relative to the main competitors that is correct and that there was certainly particularly in the couple of years prior to acquisition some reduction in investment.
Understood.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So just a couple of clarification questions to what's already been asked.
As you are looking at 2016 can you discuss what you expect the trajectory to be for comps in both segments of the business? Seemingly the commercial business was - would be very - if it has more room for improvement.
Do you expect that to outcomp DIY in 2016? Just give us kind of a relative sense for how those fit against that low-single-digit overall comp.
And then can you just based on the low single digit obviously that is a range.
I get that but what does that imply for total sales as a range total sales dollars given that you're going to be opening and consolidating a bunch of stores? Yes.
We are not going to comment too much on mix between DIY and commercial but I will just reiterate that commercial is going to be our primary sales driver.
So no question that it is slanted more toward an investment and a focus around the commercial business while trying to maintain as much DIY as we can.
And then I just - I may have missed it earlier.
I don't know whether you addressed this.
Is there any update at this point on the search for a permanent CEO? Yes.
There is not an update.
The board is diligently doing what they consider to be one of their primary roles which is the CEO search.
It is going on.
And here in advance we're driving ahead with the business and there is no question about leadership.
Okay.
So no comment regarding expected timing of an announcement in either way? Correct.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
I want to ask about the 12% operating margin.
So I guess it's going to be one question in three parts.
First so you first talked about that 12% margin I think on the second quarter call this year.
I think since then the last two quarters haven't been great quarters.
So I guess where are you right now in the progression to that 10% to 12% margin versus where you thought you would have been when you first talked about it six months ago? Mike we've made progress on the comp area for sure.
So if you want to look at the primary areas that we're showing traction on it's cost reduction part of which was reflected in some of the Q4 results which we weren't happy with.
But we’re making progress in our cost structure we have an issue in place on margin and we certainly intend to change the comp trajectory and that last part is actually job one.
So is the cost savings enough to offset the sales weakness such that at the end of 2015 you were where you would have thought you would have been or does the weakness in the second half of this year require an even better 2016 than you would have thought six months ago? Yeah.
The weakness in 2015 gives us a little bit more of a target.
I mean that's just the fact of the matter.
So we have a little bit more work to do little bit more wood to chop on it but the same principles remain meaning it is taking aggressive cost out in the right places accelerating our comp sales and expanding our margins.
Okay.
Understood.
Part two.
That was only part one.
Part two would be how should we think about this quarterly? I mean it's 180 basis points.
That's a big number.
Do we expect to see some of that in - as early as this current quarter or is it going to be not as much improvement earlier in the year and then hundreds of basis points in the back half of the year? Yeah.
Mike we will build throughout the course of the year.
With that said our quarters aren’t equal.
So obviously if you look at a quarter like Q2 that is a critical quarter for us relative to Q4 which is less so.
Okay.
But again should we expect to see some improvement at least close to that range as related to this current quarter? Yes.
We should.
Okay.
Last one.
This is just a clarification because I think people have said it differently in some questions so I just want to make sure.
The SG - sorry the synergy saving of $50 million that's part of the 100 basis point cost savings or that's in addition to the 100 basis points of cost savings? It's part of the cost savings.
Okay.
So it's 100 basis points on SG&amp;A and then presumably 80 basis points on gross margin.
Is that right? Not exactly.
I think George if you look at what we said before I think George said it earlier 100 basis points of SG&amp;A and roughly in that 50 basis points and then a little bit of leverage is what we said but we haven't given a specific on gross margin but we have given specific on SG&amp;A which is in the 100 basis point range.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you Cheryl and thanks for our audience for participating in our fourth quarter call.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!