Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the call over to your host for today Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our first quarter of fiscal 2011.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Dave Yost AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer; Steve Collis President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Dicandilo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2010.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Dave Yost to begin our comments.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
As you know from our press release this morning ABC got off to a great start on our fiscal year that began October 1 2010 with strong first quarter results featuring record revenue of just under $20 billion record-low operating expense-to-revenue ratio operating margin expansion and EPS of $0.57 up 10% over the December quarter of last year.
That double-digit EPS increase is particularly noteworthy when you recall that in our December quarter last year our EPS was up a phenomenal 44% over the year before which was on top of a 12% increase the year before that.
The point being that we continue to post good numbers on top of good numbers.
This is our sixth consecutive year that we expect to increase our operating margin and this quarter was the 13th consecutive quarter that we have increased our operating margin quarterly on a year-over-year basis.
During the last two quarters we delivered that operating margin improvement at the same time that we incurred significant duplicate information technology expenses due to our transition to a new ERP system in the drug company.
We continue to do a good job controlling our receivables and assets all of which resulted in a great quarter.
On January 27 we received a credit rating upgrade to A- from S&amp;P reflecting our financial strength and forecast.
The cliff notes are lots to like about ABC and the industry we operate in and more good things to come.
As I think all of you know Steve Collis was named President and Chief Operating Officer of ABC in November and he will provide some color on our operations for the quarter and Mike Dicandilo will provide financial insights as usual.
Before I turn the floor over to them I will provide some thoughts on the industry.
The industry continues to be vibrant and resilient with new generic introductions providing incremental opportunities to the solid growth fundamentals of organic growth and cost leverage.
Our focus continues to be on specialty distribution in generics.
And this quarter as last year both were strong.
And again this quarter our two growth drivers overlapped as we had strong generic contribution in Specialty though not as strong as last year.
Projected industry growth rates for the year are 3% to 5% seeming in the right zip code to us.
I would continue to describe the industry pricing environment as competitive but stable with few million dollar accounts changing wholesalers historically and none recently in this $210 billion-or-so U.S.
market.
We did not see any legislative efforts in Washington currently that change our outlook for the year.
We expect AMP to be published sometime after the rules are established and we do not anticipate AMP implementation to substantially impact our business.
With our strong cash flow and cash balance let me reconfirm our often stated position on acquisitions.
Although none are contemplated in our guidance we are receptive to acquisitions and have spent over $1 billion in the last eight years on acquisitions.
An acquisition and our basic business of pharmaceutical distribution or related services would have great appeal to us.
We would be very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range but would readily consider something larger if it made good strategic sense.
We are in excellent position for acquisitions both financially and organizationally.
Absent acquisition opportunities which would increase shareholder value we will continue to consider increasing our stock buybacks as we did last year.
We have solid momentum after the first quarter of our fiscal year and continue to be very excited about our prospects going forward.
Before I turn the floor over to Steve I want to reiterate my Investor Day message that this is a great time to be investing in the wholesale drug space particularly ABC.
We continue to be comfortable with our FY '11 guidance delivering strong EPS growth on top of the 31% increase in EPS that we delivered in FY '10.
In our FY '12 we expect to experience the benefits of the largest retail brand-to-generic product conversion in history starting in our first fiscal quarter.
In FY '13 we expect to experience the benefits of our new ERP system and the elimination of running dual IT systems as well as carry-over benefit from generic introductions late in FY '12.
FY '14 should benefit from the $32 million-or-so uninsured patients entering the healthcare system with pent-up demand for pharmaceutical products.
In FY '14 and '15 should be good years for generic introductions.
So lots to like about ABC in the years to come as well as this year.
That ABC circle of life just keeps getting better.
Here's Steve Collis ABC's President and Chief Operating Officer.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to speak to you this morning about the performance within our four business units in our first fiscal quarter.
Before I get to the specifics I'd like to share some observations I've made since I became President and Chief Operating Officer in November and what they may mean for us as we go forward.
From my many years of running ABSG and almost two years running ABDC I feel now I have the opportunity to take a look at our operations from a different and more holistic perspective.
We have a wealth of expertise in all of our business units and are in an excellent position to bring the combined strength and cultures of our businesses together in a way that would differentiate us and drive tremendous value to our customers and in turn to our shareholders.
Since being appointed COO last year I have focused on four things: Firstly driving innovation for pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers; secondly increasing customer and supplier value; thirdly expanding our business in targeted markets; fourth continuing to optimize operating efficiency.
I am very confident that we will be able to execute on all of these objectives because our entire organization is aligned on our ability to capitalize on our strengths and to explore new areas where we can apply our expertise to the new demands of healthcare in America.
As most of you know I've been with AmerisourceBergen for 17 years and you all know that both Dave and Mike have very long tenures with ABC.
Longevity is really a distinguishing characteristic of ABC management.
Most of the key folks that have helped found and grew ABSG are still with the company.
That same kind of longevity is indeed found in the Drug Company in our Consulting Services group and in our Packaging Group.
Across the board these businesses have intimate knowledge of the marketplace close relationships with customers and suppliers and perhaps most importantly the heaviest fingers on the pulse of change.
They have been successful because they are dedicated to ABC and they are dedicated to our customer's success.
So we have a deep and broad bench of forward-looking leaders in all of our businesses working hard every day to deliver excellent programs and services to our customers and suppliers.
At AmerisourceBergen we believe we have the best overall value proposition for the marketplace.
I regularly call on customers and I can confidently say for an example to an independent pharmacy owner that if he or she signs up with ABC we will help his or her business do better than it is doing today.
When I call on a hospital I'm thrilled to show them how we can help drive better medication management within the hospital and provide tools to improve direct cost recovery both of which impact a hospital's bottom line.
We are busy with the physician customer served by our Specialty group.
I can say with confidence that we will provide that physician the commercial and clinical tools that he or she needs to improve the efficiency of the management of their practice and we will help enable them to have successful interactions with payers.
And when we combine the insight we gained from servicing the entire spectrum of healthcare providers with the expertise we have in our Consulting Services and our Packaging Groups we rarely have an unmatched suite of solutions and scale for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
From custom packaging to commercialization services comparative effectiveness studies patient adherence programs reimbursement consulting and more we believe we offer the most comprehensive and cost-effective solutions for manufacturers available in the market today.
In addition to the offsetting programs and services that we bring to market as Dave mentioned the key drivers of profitability growth for ABC remains Generics and Specialty.
And we believe that with the mix of business in our Drug Company a large footprint in Specialty and opportunity for Generics in the Specialty space we are uniquely positioned to continue to benefit from the new generic introductions and growth in the Specialty market in the years ahead.
Turning now to the performance of the individual business units I'll start with our Drug Company.
With revenue growth of 5% the Drug Company was a driving force in our top line growth in the quarter.
Drug Company performance in the quarter was driven by institutional segments and was aided by above market growth in certain of our large customers.
ABDC has a tremendous breadth of customers and we expect to continue to benefit from above-market growth on some of our key strategic customers.
We continue to expect our Long’s contract to contribute through the June quarter.
And while we're hopeful that we could retain some of that business going forward we do not have any contributions from Long’s including our assumptions for our fourth fiscal quarter.
Our ProGeneric solution program again had above market low double-digit growth in the quarter.
As generics continue to be a key driver of profitability for both ABC and our customers.
We continue to make good progress expanding the penetration of our proprietary generics offering across all of our business segments and driving compliance among customers in the program.
It is worth repeating that we believe our customer mix in the Drug Company coupled with our strong generic sourcing and commercial programs positions us very well for the generic opportunities that lie ahead in 2012 and beyond.
Turning now to the Specialty Group.
As expected the Specialty Group's revenue was down 4% due primarily to the loss of an $800 million contract we discontinued in our 3PL business in September.
We also saw a decline in ESA sales in the dialysis space ahead of the ship that abandonment of reimbursement as we had expected.
Overall the Specialty market continues to be strong and we are competing as effectively as ever and maintaining our market share on oncology space as our Nuclear Solutions offering continues to gain traction in physician practices.
Nuclear Solutions is an integrated suite of practices or practice tools designed to boost efficiency cost effectiveness and compliance with new protocols within community oncology practices.
The mid-November launch of gemcitabine has gone as planned and we continue to believe that we have enough Oxaliplatin inventory to serve our customers through the March quarter.
We are still riding on the launch of docetaxel which we expect will be launched by the end of our fiscal second quarter.
Overall specialty generics continue to be a tremendous opportunity for us to drive value for our manufacturers and for our physician customers.
Moving on to other businesses units.
Our Consulting Services units turned in a record top line performance in the quarter as the impact of healthcare reform has driven demand for the expertise and service we provide like never before.
By breaking out the Consulting Services unit from the Specialty Group we expect to make excellent progress in extending our service offerings beyond specialty manufacturers and see increased opportunities in the large branded pharma space as well as synergies with core Drug Company customers.
At the end of December we had approximately 2 000 people on our Consulting group just to remind you of the scale of those operations.
And finally our Packaging Group had a solid quarter.
They added some new business and they now serve all 15 of the top branded pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Most notably they expanded their clinical trial service offering which had previously been based primarily in Europe into the U.S.
giving manufacturers greater flexibility and a complete solution to the clinical trial packaging and other needs.
In addition we launched a liquid packaging facility at Anderson Packaging meaningfully expanding their capabilities beyond dry orals solids and powders.
As I conclude my remarks I want to reiterate that we are achieving very solid performance on top of an outstanding year of growth in our fiscal 2010.
I am exceptionally pleased with our operating results today.
We are meeting our objectives and we are on track to perform well for the year.
With that I turn it over to Mike for the detailed financials.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Lots to like about the quarter and an excellent start to fiscal 2011.
Before getting into the quarterly details I just wanted to take a minute to thank all of our associates and business transformation finance and elsewhere who worked very hard to make our back-office Go Live a success and enabled us to report our results on our new ERP system for the first time this quarter.
It's an important milestone for our company and we look forward to expanding our capabilities with the new system and we remain on track to begin to implement our customer-phasing modules later this fiscal year.
So let's turn to the quarter which has Dave and Steve both indicated was extremely solid and above expectations despite some very tough comparisons to the prior year.
Starting with the top line our revenue of $19.9 billion increased by just under 3% and was right in line with our expectations.
This growth was driven by the Drug Company which increased its top line and above-market 5% driven by certain of its largest customers primarily on the institutional side.
We continue to forecast Drug Company revenue growth to be between 3% and 5% for the full year.
Specialty Group revenue was down almost 4% as expected due to the discontinued $800 million 3PL contract that we mentioned last quarter.
This account loss will continue to impact our Specialty revenue growth rates the rest of the year and our full year forecast of flat to a 5% revenue decline for Specialty remains unchanged.
While our Packaging and Consulting group revenues are very small compared to our consolidated revenues with each of them representing less than 1/2 of 1% of total revenue both exceeded plan with record revenues been achieved by our Consulting group.
Moving to gross profit.
Where our performance this quarter is especially notable because of the extremely tough comparison to last year's results.
Gross profit of $580 million in the quarter increased 3% and gross margin of 2.92% increased one basis point compared to the prior-year period.
The quarterly increase in gross profit was driven by revenue growth Specialty Generic revenue growth which was in the low double digits once again.
Additionally we performed very well under our fee-for-service contracts with our suppliers and we were also helped in the quarter by an unusual $12 million benefit related to the Duane Reade business which I will explain in a moment.
All of these positive gross profit factors in the quarter were offset in part by normal competitive pressures and a $20 million reduction in gross profit contribution from large Specialty Generics.
The combination of carryover Oxaliplatin product in the November launch of gemcitabine contributed about $0.06 to the current December quarter compared to the $0.10 benefit provided by Oxaliplatin's in last year's first fiscal quarter.
Looking forward despite the delay in the introduction of docetaxel we continue to expect the impact of the three large Specialty Generics in fiscal '11 to meet or slightly exceed the $0.25 benefit we received from Oxaliplatin in fiscal '10.
Turning back to the Duane Reade benefit as a reminder this relationship pre-dated the 2001 AmeriSource and Bergen merger.
And from its inception the contract had a confinement inventory component which is unusual for ABC.
This inventory was carried on our balance sheet at a substantial discount to its contractual value due to our concerns about its recoverability at the time of the merger.
In the December quarter we received full value for this inventory resulting in a $12 million gain.
The end result is a nice benefit to the first quarter but not a continuing factor going forward.
Our LIFO charge in the quarter was $9.9 million compared to $7.8 million last year reflecting a quarter-over-quarter decline in generic price deflation.
We were very pleased with our expense control this quarter as operating expenses of $303 million were up less than 1% which was really impressive performance when you factor in the significant increase in IT cost as a result of our back-office Go Live.
This greater than $10 million increase in IT cost during the quarter was offset in part by ongoing productivity improvements a $4 million reduction in bad debt expense and a similar size reduction in incentive compensation costs.
As a percentage of revenue operating expenses were a record low 153 basis points in the quarter down three basis points from last year.
The combination of that expense margin reduction and the uptick in our gross margin led to operating margin expansion of three basis points and total quarterly operating income of $277 million grew a solid 6% over last year.
Below operating income net interest expense in the quarter of $19 million increased 11% over the first quarter of fiscal '10 which had only a 1/2 quarter impact from our prior year November bond issuance.
Additionally below the operating income line we realized a $1.7 million net benefit in other income primarily due to a payment received in excess of the amount accrued from a note relating to a past business disposition.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 38.1% compared to 38.2% last year and we continue to expect an annualized effective rate closer to 38.4%.
Our diluted EPS in the quarter of $0.57 increased by $0.05 or just under 10% compared to last year and exceeded our 6% increase in net income due to the 4% reduction in average diluted shares outstanding.
The share reduction primarily resulted from our share repurchase program net of stock option exercises over the last 12 months and the dilutive effect of stock options.
Average diluted shares in the quarter were 280.7 million.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows which were in line with our normal December trends.
We used $99 million of cash and operations compared to usage of $42 million in the prior-year quarter.
Normal seasonal increases in inventories and payables timing offset continued impressive receivable performance.
Capital expenditures were $50 million in the quarter compared to $43 million last year and in addition to our ERP spend reflected some discretionary buyouts on leased equipment and certain technology investments in the Specialty Group.
We continue to expect to spend in the $150 million range for the year but based on our early pace may be somewhat higher.
Despite the normal seasonal slow start for the year we continue to expect free cash flow to be in the $625 million to $700 million range for fiscal '11.
Average inventory days on hand during the quarter were 25 days down one day from last year.
Average DSOs were consistent at 17 days and average DPOs were down one day mostly due to timing.
Our gross debt to total debt and capital ratio at the end of December was 32% in line with our target range of 30% to 35%.
We bought $185 million of our shares during the quarter and are ahead of the pace needed to hit our $400 million target.
As of the end of December we have $413 million remaining under our board-authorized repurchase program.
Our cash balance of $1.4 billion at the end of December leaves us with great financial flexibility as we look forward.
While we are very encouraged by our strong first quarter keep in mind we have a lot of our year left and our full year fiscal '11 diluted EPS guidance remains unchanged at a range of $2.31 to $2.41 per share supporting assumptions for our EPS guidance of 2% to 4% revenue growth low- to mid-single-digit basis point operating margin expansion free cash flow in the range of $625 million to $700 million and share repurchases in the $400 million range also remain unchanged.
Once again we are very pleased with our start to our fiscal year and we continue to be very excited about our positioning in the marketplace and our prospects for the rest of fiscal 2011 and beyond.
And I'm going to turn it back to Barbara Brungess our Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
So there’s obviously been a lot made of a few Specialty Generics and I guess rightfully so.
I was wondering if you could guys can give us a better sense of the performance of the underlying ABDC business and particularly as it relates to small molecule generics.
Specifically I was hoping you could maybe touch on what you're seeing out there in terms of pricing and market share among the retail independent? Yes I'll start up on that Steve Collis.
Overall we saw growth on our proprietary program in the mid-teens.
We believe that we are growing our generics above the market.
We're very focused on compliance within our independent customer base and we feel very comfortable on our position and our ability to execute in this area.
I think Mike may have some additional comments.
Mark from an appreciation standpoint I think you hit it right on the head.
There are a few generics because of different situations of availability in the marketplace that did rise significantly in price and provided us a small boost to the quarter.
Certainly something we don't build into our forecast going forward because it's hard to predict if those type of events will continue in the future.
But it did have a boost again I would say it was a small number of items having a disproportionate benefit.
And I guess my follow-up would be around the guidance.
I mean obviously a lot of focus on the timing of the generic Taxotere launch.
Could you maybe share with us at what point the guidance would be come under pressure if we don't see a launch of generic Taxotere or is the current range able to sustain not having generic Taxotere in the market? Yes Bob this is Mike.
I think our assumption in our guidance is that Taxotere will launch by the end of March.
And certainly we've got a $0.10 range and that will cover any delays from there.
But if you start getting into past due and into our -- late in our fourth quarter that could have some impact on where we would fall in the range.
Our next question is from Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Let me see if I can reflect on Bob's questions and then a follow-up.
The question is it seems like so far Specialty maybe a little bit of oxy taxo but probably better margin opportunity with oxy and it sounds like the ESAs are about in line with your expectations.
As you think into the next two to three years in that pipeline is there any other product category that you think are going to be particularly good opportunities as you leverage your footprint? Or do we think of this year and last year's kind of unusually large Specialty margin years because of the particular products you guys have called out repeatedly? Larry this year tough comparison.
But remember in FY '12 oxy comes back and we know how that story played out and that played out very very well.
So we get out to '12 we will have some more contribution from Specialty.
But I think it speaks to the balance.
The big generics are starts for us and 10 000 were in FY '10 and '11 and the Specialty then in our '12 which starts in November.
Just a few months from now we get the real retail impact and as that starts to fade a little bit we come back with more Specialty.
So I think the fact that we've got the strong footprint in both retail and Specialty will suit us very well as we go forward out the '12 '13 '14 and beyond.
And a quick follow up on that point Dave.
You're communicating a good growth on ProGenerics.
Tony talked about it in Analyst Day and your peers talk about good growth in their preferred sourcing programs.
Is there any way to compare and contrast yours versus your peers? And is the message really that we're hearing that the supply chain companies are taking share from sort of go direct or other sources in the marketplace since we're all seeing the good growth numbers from you guys? First of all I do think it's tough to compare them.
I mean you have to look at the individual source programs and how they were year-over-year and what's in that base going forward and probably best to compare individual companies on.
I'm a little uncomfortable.
I don't know exactly what's in their programs.
But I do think it speaks -- I think the growth in all of our program speaks to the additional penetration we are getting with our customers and expanded into other classes of trade and we're now moving into hospitals into alternate site in the regional change and alike.
I think it's a very good barometer on how well the industry is doing and the value that the wholesalers in general are bringing to their customers.
So Generics have turned out to be a great boon for the industry.
And I think it really -- again it speaks just to the value we are bringing to the customers.
Our next question is from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Ann Wilson in for Bob today.
Can you cite your ongoing expenditures on internal technology initiatives and when does that taper off? And would there be any other expenses that could offset that in an expected decline in tax? Our project CapEx is included in our $150 million guidance and should be roughly half of that total spend or so this year.
It has tailed off some from last year as we moved through the initial programming phases to the implementation phases that are much more geared to expense than capitalization.
I think the key point we like to make about the IT expenses with our Go Live at the beginning of -- starting in July and with the second phase at the beginning of October our run rate for IT expense because of running both our legacy system and our ERP system during the transition period through 2012 our run rate is going to be about $40 million higher per year than it was in fiscal '10.
And really starts in the fourth quarter of fiscal '10 so there's about a $30 million impact this year.
As we get to next year the comparison is really flat between the two years.
And when we finish at the end of '12 we should get that benefit falling into fiscal '13.
Our next question is from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Dave some of your competitors have talked about price stability on the generic side.
I'm just wondering what your take is on it and what that does for your margin over time and how we should think about how generics will impact you specifically over the next couple of years as we continue to see this price stability? I think this price stability is good call out Lisa and we're clearly seeing that.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks we're not seeing huge -- first of all we don't have a lot of huge accounts so we have not seen a lot of big account movements.
So I think the price stability in generics is good call out.
And I think that really speaks well to our prospects going forward.
Part of the reason I think we see that price stability is with large market basket of items.
We have just 7 000 or so items in ours you really begin to compete on a value basis and you're not exactly comparing the exact same market basket in your exact same manufacturers even if you got the same product.
So it really provides us an ability to differentiate our offer in terms of value and we're seeing less in price competition in that.
But the other thing that's great about generics is it gives our customers the ability to also have a very attractive margin at retail.
So it's a total win-win and the stability is a great call out.
If I could just add to that I tell you there's no -- the metric on the compliance and the performance of our accounts with the expected generic targets is something that we pay incredible attention to.
And we are very aware that we have great reporting tools we have great for example our in-stock program and the retail accounts is something that gives us a lot of insight into what's going on in our practices in our pharmacies and these are very very important metrics when Dave and I look at how we judge how the team is performing and how our sales force is performing.
And then just a follow-up on your comments on the Duane Reade and the contracts on the consignment basis.
Will that have any impact as far as cash flow or inventory level if you were carrying the inventory for them? And then secondly Dave or Mike should we be thinking that contract was more profitable or was the profitability similar even though it was a consignment type of relationship? Yes Lisa it's good call out.
I mean our working capital will fall because that's an extra element we had with that contract.
As I mentioned we really did not have with any other contracts.
So it's a nice little boost to our cash flow.
When we had the contract Lisa it was an attractive contract for us.
Because we supplied a full range of products including generics.
So it was nice when we had it but it's gone and we moved on.
As we said it was factored in our guidance coming out of the end of December.
So no change to our guidance.
Our next question is from Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Steve I want to first as a quick question on the specialty drugs.
I hate to keep beating this horse but it's obviously important.
Can you just kind of refresh sort of your expectations for Eloxatin I think you kind of suggested you're only going to have it through the first half of fiscal year.
And Mike I think you guys called it out at about $0.03 to $0.04 contribution on a per-quarter basis.
Is there anything going on with respect to the pricing or reimbursement or inventory that would have change those assumptions? I'll start off first with the market.
We do expect to have inventory through this quarter.
As you know the ASP has risen pretty considerably in the last few months.
And we don't necessary price off of ASP but it is an important metric for our customers and we are of course always very mindful of our customer's profitability.
I'll let Mike answer the guidance part.
Glen I think the way to look at it is we probably are getting a little bit bigger benefit and we expect to get a little bit bigger benefit from Oxaliplatin in the March quarter than we did at the beginning of the year with the ASP increase and it's a nice offset to the delay in the introduction of Taxotere to generic Taxotere.
So it's a big reason why for the year we've kept the guidance similar to the $0.25 benefit we got last year with a little bit of upside over that.
And maybe Dave if I can just ask you a follow-up question on AMP you brought it up in your sort of prepared remarks that something that could be introduced potentially this year and you sort of suggested that it will not substantially impact your business.
I mean does that kind of imply that it could have a minimal impact? And I'm kind of curious from your perspective? In what would that impact your business because all the companies across all the industries are sort of saying AMP doesn’t impact them and I'm trying to figure out who does it impact? I think you got to drill down Glen on the magnitude what we're talking about.
I mean for us it's a piece of a piece of a piece.
So when it gets down the individual retailer it could possibly have an impact.
But we actually don't even think it's going to have a big impact there because we think that many of the states are already operating well below the FUL limit.
So we don't think it's going to have a big impact and we'll have to wait and see.
There's much delayed but we just have to wait and see.
But the big issue is that it's a relatively small piece of our total business.
So bottom line for you though is it wouldn’t be radically be a derivative impact on you it's really a function of your customers get squeezed or not? That's exactly right.
And again many of our customers it's a piece of their businesses.
I think almost no cases on all their business.
So it ends up getting diluted down.
Our next question is from Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
This is Andrea Alfonso calling in for Tom Gallucci.
First in your prepared remarks you referenced normal competitive pressures as partially offsetting the benefits in the gross profit line.
Could you maybe describe what you're seeing there and has anything changed recently? Actually nothing has changed recently Andrea and that's what I was trying to point out.
And for some of the people who have followed the industry for a long time there have been times when there has been unusual competitive pressures.
And I wanted to point out that that is not existent today and I don't want to make it sound like it's a walk in a park and I don't want to make it sound like we don't have some issues from time to time on an isolated basis with accounts.
But the point that I want to make out that overall we're seeing the market to be very stable competitive but very stable.
And as a follow-up question on the -- it looks like branded price inflation was off to a good start at the beginning of the year.
Could you maybe detail what's your expectation are there for fiscal Q2? This is Mike Andrea.
Last year our brand name inflation was over 8% pretty robust.
It's been in that range for the last couple of years and our expectation this year was we were going to see some moderation probably down to the 6%-or-so range.
So far I agree with your observations.
It's been a very strong and if it continues at the same pace we could be at the same level we were last year.
Just to refresh everybody's memory fee-for-service offsets most of the impact to us but it is statistics that a lot of people watch for sure.
Our next question is from Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Dave for the last few quarters it's kind of stood out to me that you've been pretty vocal about your interest in doing M&amp;A if opportunities arise.
And then in Steve's prepared comments he mentioned that the company is at a point now where it could consider new growth areas new avenues.
I realized it's difficult to identify specific things and especially if you are in discussions.
But can you give us some heads-up on new areas that might be interesting to you? What kind of adjacencies in your business you think could provide a good platform for growth perhaps through M&amp;A? The reason we called it out Eric is I just want our listeners to know that we really are very interested in M&amp;A.
We're buying our stock back because we haven't found any M&amp;A acquisitions in any targets that we really liked.
But that's not our first priority.
Our first priority is to grow our business and one way to grow our businesses was with M&amp;A that are accretive to us and could contribute to shareholder value.
Areas that I think would have most appeal to us as something in the distribution end in Specialty or in our traditional wholesale Drug business.
Add on businesses into our Specialty business.
So there are no holes that we think we have in our offering.
It's something in the Packaging business.
But again things that are-- would be attributed to our core competency not moving far afield from where we are today.
And the reason it's important to call that out as we talked about our growth goal of growing our EPS at 15% over the long term we think we can do that without M&amp;A.
So M&amp;A would be attractive to us.
So we just want to keep reminding people that we're interested even though there hasn't been much activity on that front the last big acquisition we had was in 2008 when we bought Bellco Drug outside of New York.
Eric I'll just add.
I didn't actually when I said innovate and expanding service I didn't actually mean acquisitions.
We have tremendous opportunities within our organic business to implement new programs and services.
I referenced the Packaging business for example where we've expanded beyond the core business that we did for brand of manufacturers and getting into clinical trials for example.
On our services side of our business we continue to offer new services in the hospital area that there's opportunities to move beyond the traditional 340B and supply chain top consulting work we do.
So there's opportunities for internal investment that we continue to consider.
We're spending a lot of time on expanding our oncology portfolio and that's requiring some small investment.
But it's an investment that we make every day of the week and we love doing that and we love to support the people that provide such value to our business and to our customers.
And just as a follow-up the conclusion here or maybe the summary is that what you might look to diversify within the supply chain you're not looking to diversify outside of the supply chain or outside of your core offerings.
Is that fair? That's exactly right Eric.
You said it very very well.
Absolutely.
Our next question is from David Larsen with Leerink Swann.
Just with respect to generic Gemzar and generic Taxotere.
Can you maybe just talk about relative to Oxaliplatin how does it looks like with respect to the number of suppliers in the market? Is there a big difference there or not really? I think first off with Oxaliplatin right now I mean there's no new product in the market.
So it's all the carryover from previously when it was out there there were a couple three-or-so suppliers.
And I think with these two products we expect it to be fairly similar.
And then just in terms of like the expected margins on generic Taxotere and Gemzar I mean the sense that I get is if the margin profile should be similar to oxy is that correct? Well oxy was a little unique David in that it was an at-risk launch when it came out in August so that carried some very unique characteristics with it.
And it was the first really large generic in the oncology space.
So the Oxaliplatin was somewhat unique so we would not expect follow-on introductions in that space to be quite as robust as Oxaliplatin was.
Our next question is from Steven Valiquette with UBS.
You guys did a pretty good job controlling operating expenses this quarter keeping it flattish despite the IT initiatives.
Really just trying to get a little more color on the potential sustainability of that trend for the rest of the fiscal year? We do a very good job of controlling expenses.
We have a CE2 philosophy which really implies increasing productivity and efficiency.
I think in the COO role one of the things we're doing is looking at taking the best performing attributes of each of our different businesses.
For example efficiency we have within the Drug Company and there really is always more room for improvements.
So you should expect that we'll have a continued emphasis on improving our operating margins and we're going to manage that through our great portfolio of businesses and our great portfolio of customers and focusing on providing value to them and making sure that it meets the expected returns of our shareholders.
Just on the PharMerica contract that was renewed any material changes to the dynamics on that contract that are worth mentioning? No not really.
We're very happy with the renewal of the contract.
We extended the terms.
We like PharMerica's position in the space.
They've done some acquisitions in the last quarter that we are very pleased about that helped us.
One of them was an account that we've been trying to secure for a long time.
So we're very happy with the relationship and we hope to be their distributor for a long long time.
Our next question is from a Helene Wolk with Sanford Bernstein.
Just a question on your comments about ESA use.
I think you said it was within your expectation.
Can you tell us couple of things one of which is maybe some range of where your expectation was? And then I guess secondly are trends in the market stable at this point or still declining or what are you seeing in terms of the market movement? Helene this is Mike.
At the beginning of the year we said our expectation is with the new bundling reimbursement system.
We would expect to see a decline in ESAs used from a nephrology of roughly 10% to 15% for the year and expected most of that to start after January 1 when the new rules became effective.
I think what we've expected to see and what we've seen a little bit this quarter is an advance of that some behavior has changed.
And in the quarter ESAs as used in nephrology were down about 5% most of that impacting the Specialty growth.
And then just a quick clarification about the $12 million from Duane Reade consignment was that anticipated and included in your guidance? Yes.
We knew when we didn't renew the contract at some point we would get repaid.
We weren't sure exactly when.
Our next question is from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
In last week or so there's a number of headlines around the supplies used for generic injectables.
Can you walk us through what impact did that have on you? And where does generic injectables flow through your businesses.
Does it go through the Specialty Group or through drug distribution? Where it would fall Ricky is a function of where it's being administered.
If it's a physician you'll be able to take through our Specialty Group and is going through a hospital or traditional drug store it would be through our growth company.
What was the first part of your question Ricky? I think I've missed it.
What is the impact on your I think in this case it would be on drug distribution from the supply shortage because when we think about the supply usually pricing trend tends to go up which should be a positive for you but if you could just walk us through those dynamics.
The issue is shortages it is something that we monitor very very carefully and it does impact because it impacts our customers.
So the big issue is just making sure we're getting the right product the right places and working closely with the manufacturers on that.
But I can tell you that the shortage issue is something that our operating people are literally dealing with everyday and it is having an impact.
The shortage situation is one of the factors that leads to the price increases that are sporadic and sometimes significant on generic side Ricky did we feel the benefit? I think the answer is yes.
This quarter we've had some of that benefits sporadically in the past back in the days when Heparin was in short supplies a good example of that.
Our next question is from George Hill with Citigroup.
Steve question around the recent firming in generic drug pricing there seems to be a dynamic where there's an appropriate number of competitors where the price has kept to the level that allows you guys to make a good margin.
And then as more competitors come to market pricing of course gets driven down in that margin opportunity recedes.
I guess can you talk to us know about what is the level of competitors for supply in the generic market? How durable do you see that situation being with the competitive level on your supply side and maybe a little color around what's the right number of suppliers what's the wrong number of suppliers and how we should think about that? The first thing is it depends on what's type of launch it is.
In the first six months typically we see a price close to the brand and then there's a price deterioration from there It depends on the ease of manufacturer.
And I think that there's a lot of people on the manufacturing side who can talk more about the pricing economics of generic manufacturers.
But Mike you may have some comments on this as well.
Again I think broadly the less competition the better for us the harder to make generic drugs.
Sometimes the antibiotics et cetera some of the liquids at times are the ones that are more volatile in the shortage-type situation.
But for us the breadth of the number of manufacturers the ease of manufacturing all contribute to how far that price decline is going to be.
I think one of the trends we've seen I think that all of the manufacturers are getting a bit smarter.
They're gearing up for the future where the volume going through their facilities is increasing.
So they've got to make certain portfolio decisions and I think they're trying to maximize their portfolio and move away from a lower-value opportunities to higher-value opportunities and it's probably something we would be doing as well.
I think the basic premise that you have this right George.
What happens is that product comes on a market and there may be many manufacturers that then the prices drop as Steve pointed out.
Then manufacturers fall away as Mike talked about and the prices start creeping back up.
And we think that we are going to see a lot more rationalization as long as there’s more than one manufacturing it puts us in a very good position.
But we think we're going to see fewer manufacturers making individual products as we go forward and we think that puts us in a pretty good spot.
Just one quick other comment Dave is our broad generic sourcing strategy is really very helpful in this regard.
We almost have like an intelligence group within our sourcing strategy that really looks at supply chain issues and really puts us and our customers in a good position.
Do you guys have any opportunities because there's been some quality issues on the manufacturing side of the market? Is there ever a situation where you guys might look at a specific vendor and say -- where you become self-selecting and say you're not necessarily a vendor that we have quality to meet our supply demand.
Is there almost the opportunity for you to limit the amount of competitors there by being selective until you buy from or that is just not a situation that materializes? We are very careful George about who we do business with.
And the issue of quality is a very very important one and it's one that we stress with our customers and we literally have people who go abroad to India on the inspecting the suppliers that we have literally walking through the manufacturers.
We've got people on our staff we think are qualified to opine on those kind of issues.
And the issue of quality is a key one for us particularly with multiple products.
So it's a good call out and we appreciate you bringing that up.
Our last question comes from A.J.
with Susquehanna.
This is Brandon Shroud for A.J.
You talk about in your Investor Day about $40 billion of generic drugs coming online in your fiscal year given your timing for the September year.
How much do you think of that is exclusive the more profitable type of situation? Brandon there's a lot of direction coming out and universally every scenario out there as far as exclusivity.
And there's still some questions about the availability of certain suppliers to be able to come on board.
I mean I think the key for us is the biggest one and the biggest selling drug that's coming off it comes in at the beginning of fiscal '12.
And there is exclusivity there so we expect it to be a very large contributor to '12.
And again I don't want to go down the list one by one but there are a number of other exclusive opportunities in '12.
It's a good question Brandon.
It's a little art a little science in trying to get our arms around it.
But a good call out.
With that I'll turn it over to Dave for some closing remarks.
Thanks Barbara.
In summary I just like to say that we had a strong and very clean quarter on top of exceptionally strong December last year.
We continue to focus on our key drivers in Generics and Specialty.
We continue to be very very excited about the industry and continue to be very very excited about the row we planted.
So we thank you for joining us and we look forward to sharing our second quarter results with you in late April.
And Barbara you're going to update? Before we go just to highlight some of our upcoming events.
On February 8 we'll be presenting at the UBS Healthcare Conference in New York.
On February 17 we'll be holding our Annual Meeting of Stockholders in Philadelphia.
On March 3 we'll be attending the Citi Healthcare Conference in New York and on March 6 we'll be at the Raymond James Institutional Conference in Orlando.
And finally on March 16 we'll be presenting at the Barclays Healthcare Conference in Miami.
In addition we tentatively expect to report our second quarter earnings on or about April 29.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded if you do have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I would like to turn the call over to your host for today Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Amy.
And good morning everyone.
And welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our second quarter of fiscal 2011.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Dave Yost AmerisourceBergen Chief Executive Officer; Steve Collis President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Dicandilo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectation.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2010.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Dave Yost to begin our comments.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining us.
As you know from our press release this morning ABC had another strong quarter in a series of strong quarters with revenues of $19.8 billion up $416 million and over 2% from last year with both gross margin and operating margin continuing to expand year-over-year.
GAAP EPS of $0.77 was up 22% over last year particularly noteworthy performance when you recall that our last March EPS was up 34% over the previous year which was up 17% the year before that.
Strong performance on top of strong performance.
This is our sixth consecutive year we expect to increase our operating margin and this quarter is the 14th consecutive quarter we have increased our operating margin on a year-over-year basis.
And we are increasing our operating margin at the same time we invest in our future through the implementation of a new ERP [enterprise resource planning] system in the drug company.
Our asset management remains strong and we finished the quarter with a robust $1.9 billion in cash helped in part by some favorable timing.
So lots to like about the quarter with ABC continuing to demonstrate it is a good company in a good industry.
I would describe things that ABC is "steady as she goes " with all business units performing according to plan with the exception of stronger than anticipated results in our Specialty Group most notably from generics particularly though not totally Oxaliplatin.
Though we are usually uncomfortable talking about a single product Oxaliplatin is an exception since it accounted for a large part of our extraordinary performance this quarter and of course totally winds down during our June quarter.
Our EPS guidance for the year has been increased to reflect this better than expected performance in Specialty and Mike will provide details.
Our focus continues to be on specialty distribution and generics and this quarter as last year both were strong.
And again this quarter our 2 growth drivers overlap as we had strong generic contribution in Specialty.
The industry continued to be vibrant and resilient with new generic introductions providing incremental opportunities to the solid fundamentals of organic growth and cost leverage.
I want to reiterate my Investor Day message that this is a good time to be invested in wholesale drug space particularly ABC.
We have just increased our FY '11 guidance to double-digit EPS growth on top of the 31% increase in EPS that we delivered in FY '10.
Again lots to like about ABC.
In our FY '12 we expect to experience the benefits of the largest retail brand and generic product conversion in history.
Starting our first fiscal quarter which follows a strong generic introductions in Specialty in FY '10 and FY '11.
In FY '13 we expect to experience the benefits of our new ERP system and the elimination of running dual IT platforms as well as carryover benefit from generic introductions late in FY '12.
FY '14 should benefit from the 32 million or so uninsured patients entering the healthcare system with pent-up demand for pharmaceutical products.
And our FY '14 and '15 should be good years for generic introductions including biosimilars.
As you all know on March 14 I announced that I would retire as CEO effective July 1 on my 64th birthday.
And that 17-year ABC veteran Steve Collis currently Chief Operating Officer will succeed me.
As noted at the time of the announcement this change has been in process for some time and the transition continues in a very orderly manner.
You will recall that Steve has served as President of our drug company founded and was President of our Specialty Group that at the time included our consulting business that is now a separate operating unit.
Steve is eminently qualified to lead ABC.
He participated in every major decision that has made at ABC since the merger of 2001 and I have talked to him almost every business day since then.
I am very confident about ABC's future under Steve's leadership.
With Steve moving to CEO we have expanded Dave Neu's responsibility to be President of the drug company.
Dave is a 29-year company veteran and most recently was in charge of all operations for the drug company.
Before that Dave headed up all retail sales for the drug company.
Dave joins a senior leadership team with over a century of industry experience and is a strong an executive team as you will find in any high performance company.
That ABC circle of life just keeps getting better.
Here's Steve Collis the soon-to-be CEO of ABC.
Thank you Dave.
And good morning everyone.
Before I begin my comments on our results I want to congratulate Dave again for his many years of distinguished service to AmerisourceBergen.
And thank him for the personal support he has given me during this period of transition.
I am both honored and humbled by the opportunity to lead this company and I'm incredibly excited about the future for AmerisourceBergen.
We operate in a vibrant and growing industry that is competitive but stable.
Our diverse customer base with only one customer representing over 10% of our revenues and our comprehensive portfolio of products helps us continue to drive consistent performance.
Introductions of new generic pharmaceuticals will continue to provide additional incremental growth opportunities beyond the solid industry fundamentals of organic growth and cost leverage.
At ABC our focus continues to be on Specialty Distribution and Generics both of which made important contributions to the current quarter and will continue to be important contributors in the quarters and years ahead.
Importantly industry pricing remains stable with few billion-dollar accounts changing hands over the last several years and none moving recently.
Furthermore we always stay active in Washington and our recent visits to the Hill do not cause any concern to our current outlook.
As Dave mentioned the first 6 months of our fiscal year 2011 are off to a strong start.
With the incremental benefits of specialty generics pushing us above expectations.
Mike will detail our financial results but I would personally like to highlight a few things.
Our revenues were up a solid 2.4% in the quarter in line with expectations and we continue to expect to hit our targets for the year.
Our contract with Longs CVS will come to an end this summer and we will no longer serve any portion of Longs CVS after September 2011.
But we have partially offset that impact buying some new business including a contract with a large Medicare Part D provider which we signed during the quarter We had very strong gross profit growth of over 12% in the quarter driven by contributions from specialty generics.
It is important to note that much of the out-performance we have experienced over the last several quarters in terms of both gross margin and earnings have been driven by very significant contributions from Oxaliplatin.
While we have a few weeks remaining of Oxaliplatin inventory the benefit we received in the second half will be significantly less than the benefit we received in the first half of 2011.
As we look ahead to next year we see an unprecedented year for oral solid generics particularly in our retail channel.
While the conversion of large brands to generics will moderate our historic top line growth expectations we expect a banner year in gross profit for our drug company.
ABC is well positioned to take advantage of this unprecedented industry event with our market-based generic strategies.
Including our proprietary ProGeneric solution program Good Neighbor Pharmacy Long-Term Care programs and strong presence with regional chains.
We also continue to experience growth in our sales of oral solid generics to the hospital segment.
Our operating expenses were higher in the March quarter of our fiscal 2011 as expected.
However we continue to expect our expenses for the full fiscal year will be flat except for the duplicate IT spend we have previously discussed.
Mike will detail these particulars in the quarter but I want to assure you that we at ABC will continue to observe our CE2 philosophy: Paying strict attention to cost efficiency and cost effectiveness.
Our operating margin in the quarter was up a significant 24 basis points on top of a very strong performance last year driven in large part by contribution from Specialty Generics.
Strong operating earnings performance combined with a lower share count drove earnings per share up 22% on top of the 34% increase we experienced last March.
On the strength of that performance we are increasing our earnings per share guidance for the full fiscal year 2011 to a range of $2.41 to $2.49.
Given the strength of our cash flow and our cash balance at the end of the March quarter I want to affirm our often stated position on acquisitions.
Our criteria for acquisitions are as follows.
They should increase our value offering to our existing customers both up and down the channel.
They should be within our established core competency.
They should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we are receptive to acquisitions and have spent over $1 billion in the last 8 years on acquisitions.
We continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceuticals and Specialty Distribution and services as well as consulting and packaging services.
And while we would be very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range we would readily consider something larger if it made good strategic sense and would deliver value to our company and our shareholders.
We remain in excellent position for acquisitions both financially and organizationally.
As we have said before in the event that we do not find acquisitions that increase shareholder value we will consider returning monies to shareholders either through increased share repurchases or dividends.
And as Mark will detail we have increased our share repurchase expectations for the current year.
[indiscernible] to announce the performance of the individual business units I want to once again highlight the areas I've been focusing on as Chief Operating Officer and during the transition period.
As I mentioned in our Investor Day back in December I focused on four key areas to drive the shareholder value: Firstly collaborating to drive innovation for providers and manufacturers; secondly increasing customer and supplier value; thirdly expanding our business in targeted markets; and fourth maximizing operating efficiency through cross-company collaboration.
I believe that focusing on these key areas will enable us to continue to deliver value to our shareholders and will position us well to take full advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead.
The large Part D provider customer contract signing that I mentioned earlier is a very good example of how cross-company collaboration is leading to innovation innovative solutions for our customers.
Beginning in May we will provide that customer with brand generic and specialty pharmaceuticals primarily for their mail order business.
Specialty products are becoming increasingly more important for all of our customers and we believe the strength of our specialty value added services and the expertise we can provide to both manufacturers and healthcare providers give us a unique opportunities to provide tremendous value across the channel.
Almost every discussion we have with the drug customer or potential customer has a component of a specialty discussion to it and we believe our expertise and leadership in the specialty area is translating into an advantage on the core drug wholesale business.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation delivered a strong quarter including double-digit growth in our proprietary generics program ProGeneric solutions.
As Dave mentioned during the quarter we named Dave Neu President of ABDC [AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation].
Dave Neu has been instrumental in leading several key projects in the drug company has had a key role in our business transformation project and is currently working on projects that will improve operational and sales force productivity in an ERP-enabled environment and will help ensure we capture the full value of a generic and other opportunities that lie ahead for our customers and for the drug company.
I believe his commitment to customers suppliers and associates and his experience leading both sales and operational efforts will enable him to continue to drive value for all our stakeholders in 2011 2012 and beyond.
We continue to be on track with the implementation of our business transformation project in the drug company and we are preparing to convert our first distribution center to SAP this summer.
Once the first conversion is complete we will begin to convert the other distribution centers one at a time and we expect to complete the whole process by the end of calendar 2012.
Moving on to our Specialty Group our ability to capture value from large generics and Oncology Supply business continued in the quarter.
While inventory of Oxaliplatin are winding down and we will miss the outsized contributions it has made since its launch in August of 2009 we will continue to see contributions from gemcitabine which launched in mid-November and docetaxel which launched in mid-March through the remainder of the year.
Oxaliplatin will return to the market in August of 2012.
To date the benefits from gemcitabine and docetaxel have been in line with expectations.
We continue to maintain our market share in community oncologists and our Nucleus Solutions for physicians continues to gain traction.
We do believe that patients are best served in a physician setting and we work hard every day to provide physicians with the tools and information they need to run their practices efficiently and to receive adequate reimbursement from payers.
Most recently our visit was over 400 of our largest oncology customers at our LPP large practice program meeting in Washington.
I am always impressed with our customers' dedication to their profession and to their patients.
And I'm proud of the long tradition ABC has of providing value to that important segment as they meet the daily challenges of the modern healthcare practitioner.
For example we gained significant traction with ABSG's marked half-point position portal during the quarter.
Marked half point is another example of collaboration across our business units and one that creates an efficient system for managing oral prescriptions in community oncology practices which also allows physicians to coordinate total patient care with better visibility to oral medication compliance and adherence.
ASD applied plasma nephrology and vaccine distributor performed well in the quarter which was the first full quarter during which nephrology services were reimbursed under the new binding mechanism.
Our Consulting Services group also had excellent performance in the quarter as it continued to broaden the scope of the services they provide beyond specialty and biotech manufacturers to other branded and generic manufacturers as well.
With close to 2 000 associates our Consulting Services group remains a market and thought leader in helping manufacturers prove the value of their products and expand market access to those products.
Our expertise in reimbursement patient compliance and adherence programs comparative effectiveness and other data analytics helps improve patient access to drug therapies and helps ensure the efficient delivery of those therapies.
The Packaging Group had a strong quarter as they continue to expand their services to both branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers providing state-of-the-art packaging for dry oral solids to injectables and commercialization and clinical trial support solutions.
Before I turn it over to Mike I want to reiterate how excited I am about the future of our company and how much I'm looking forward to being its leader.
We have a successful and disciplined business in a strong industry and we have a wealth of very talented associates whose dedication to excellent performance is unmatched.
I am honored to lead our associates and I truly believe that our future together is very bright.
Now here is Mike.
Thank you Steve.
And good morning everyone.
Another outstanding quarter where solid execution and disciplined capital management in nearly all areas of our company met our expectations and was accentuated by our extraordinary performance in the specialty generics area.
This tremendous performance in Specialty enabled us to far exceed our original goals and led to an increase in our diluted EPS guidance for fiscal 2011.
I will spend some time detailing our performance in the specialty generics area particularly the impact of Oxaliplatin which was responsible for nearly all of our upside over expectations in the quarter.
Also while we are very pleased with our March quarter results I would like to remind everyone that from a quarterly earnings perspective the March quarter has traditionally been our strongest quarter and this year is no exception.
While our fee-for-service agreements have mitigated much of our quarterly earnings variability from manufacturer price increases the 10% or so of our brand name business that is still subject to the timing and magnitude of manufacturer price increases continues to benefit the March quarter more than any other and as usual will normalize in the second half of the year.
Now let's turn to the March quarter results and starting with our top line our revenue of $19.8 billion in the quarter was up 2.4% in line with our expectations.
The drug company grew 4% in line with our targets.
And the Specialty Group was down 2% in line with our guidance of flat to down 5% for that unit.
Drug company growth continues to be driven by the growth of some of our largest customers.
And the Specialty top line continues to be impacted by the prior year loss of a large 3PL customer the change in reimbursement methodology in the dialysis base and generic introductions which have moderated top line growth but provided a huge boost to our gross profit.
Gross profit of $687 million was up a robust 12% in the quarter and gross margins expanded by a sensational 31 basis points over last year.
While the drug company had a solid March quarter with double-digit generic revenue growth and good performance on the fee-for-service side the majority of our gross margin expansion came from the Specialty Group and was driven by the 3 large specialty generics Oxaliplatin Gemcitabine and to a lesser extent Docetaxel which was launched late in the quarter.
These 3 specialty generic drugs contributed approximately $0.16 to our EPS in the quarter with over 70% of this current quarter contribution coming from Oxaliplatin.
This compares to the $0.06 benefit provided solely by Oxaliplatin in the prior year March quarter.
For the six months ended March these 3 drugs have contributed $0.22 to EPS with $0.16 of this benefit derived from Oxaliplatin.
As a reminder in fiscal '10 Oxaliplatin contributed $0.25 to our earnings and our original expectation for fiscal '11 was that the 3 specialty generics combined would contribute at least $0.25 to our fiscal '11 EPS.
Our current expectation is that these three specialty drugs will contribute between $0.36 and $0.40 to fiscal '11 earnings which is directly responsible for our increased fiscal 2011 earnings per share guidance.
As we mentioned earlier Oxaliplatin inventory will run out in our third fiscal quarter.
And we expect that it will provide a benefit of $0.05 to $0.06 to our third quarter earnings with 0 contribution in Q4.
Looking ahead to fiscal '12 for a moment with only a minimal benefit from Oxaliplatin expected in fiscal '12 after its relaunch in August of 2012 and with the post-launch moderation from the other 2 large specialty generic products.
Our early expectation is that the earnings contribution from these 3 products in fiscal '12 will be substantially less most likely in the $0.10 to $0.15 range or down approximately $0.25 from fiscal 2011.
The good news is that our early look at the oral solid patent expirations that will provide a boost to the drug company in fiscal '12 should substantially offset the gross profit decline in Specialty Generics and provide us a pathway for solid growth in fiscal '12.
As we all know the patent expiration landscape is a very dynamic one and we would expect to have significantly better information on our assessment of the fiscal '12 impact from generic introductions by the time we complete our fiscal '12 planning process and present our fiscal '12 guidance in early November as usual.
Before I leave gross profit our LIFO charge for the March quarter was $13.5 million compared to $10.7 million last year and for the six months was $23.4 million compared to $18.5 million last year.
The increases reflect the continued strong manufacturer price increase environment.
And as a result we can expect a full year LIFO charge to be in the $30 million range similar to fiscal '10 and much higher than our original target of $15 million.
Operating expenses of $322 million in the quarter were up sequentially as expected and increased 7% over the prior year with almost 1/2 of that increase relating to our cost of maintaining duplicate IT systems.
And the remainder due to increases in incentive compensation and bad debt expenses.
For the six months operating expenses were up 4% and we continue to expect that operating expenses for the full year will grow less than our revenues.
As a result of our gross profit increase operating income increased an impressive 17% and operating margins expanded by 24 basis points in the quarter.
With our increased guidance we are now expecting operating margin expansion to be in the mid- to high-single digit basis point range for the year.
Below operating income net interest expense of $19 million was down 1% in the quarter reflecting slightly higher interest income in the current quarter.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 38.1% compared to 37.9% last year and we continue to expect our normalized effective rate to be closer to 38.4%.
Our diluted EPS in the quarter of $0.77 increased by $0.14 or 22% compared to March of last year and exceeded our 18% growth in net income due to the reduction in average diluted shares outstanding.
This share reduction resulted primarily from our share repurchase program net of stock option exercises over the last 12 months and the dilutive effect of stock options.
Average diluted shares in the quarter were $279.8 million and common shares outstanding at the end of the period were $273.7 million.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows which were outstanding in the quarter.
Before I get into the numbers I am pleased to announce that as expected we have replaced both of our primary liquidity facilities that were scheduled to expire in 2011 with terms in line with our expectations.
In March we completed a new 4-year $700 million revolving credit facility replacing our then existing credit facility of similar size.
And just today we extended our $700 million receivable securitization facility for an additional 3 years.
These new facilities should provide us with ample liquidity to meet our working capital needs over the next few years.
Turning back to the quarter.
We generated $676 million of cash from operations bringing our six-month total to $577 million compared to $346 million for the first 6 months of last year.
We continue to do an excellent job of managing inventory receivables and had some favorable payables timing as well at the end of the quarter.
Capital expenditures were $44 million in the quarter and $94 million for the six months and based on our run rate and a pipeline of attractive internal projects we’ll exceed our previous annual target of $150 million and we’ll probably be closer to $175 million.
Despite the fact that we are ahead of our pace after six months we continue to expect free cash flow to be in the $625 million to $700 million range for the year but likely will be at the higher end.
Keep in mind that we do approximately $300 million of sales per day and timing of cash receipts and disbursements at quarter end can have a big impact on our quarter-to-quarter cash flow results.
Average inventory days on hand during the quarter were 25 days consistent with last year.
Average DSOs during the quarter of 17 days were the same as last year and average DPOs were down one day.
Our gross debt to total debt and capital ratio at the end of March was 30% in line with our target range of 30% to 35%.
We bought back $70 million of our shares during the quarter and have now bought back $255 million through the first half of the year.
With our strong cash flow performance in our first 6 months we are raising our guidance for full year share repurchases in fiscal '11 to $598 million the entire amount we had remaining in authorizations from the board entering fiscal '11.
This is approximately a $200 million increase from our previous annual share repurchase assumption of $400 million.
Our cash balance of $1.9 billion at the end of March leaves us with great financial flexibility as we move forward and even with the $200 million of additional stock buybacks by the end of the year we should continue to have significant amounts of cash to deploy in excess of the $500 million or so we need to run our day-to-day business.
Now moving to guidance.
Reflecting our out-performance from specialty generics in the March quarter we are raising our diluted EPS guidance to a range of $2.41 to $2.49 per share from our previous range of $2.31 to $2.41 per share.
This new guidance continues to assume revenue growth of 2% to 4% reflects increased operating margin expansion which is now expected to be in the mid- to high single-digit basis point range free cash flow at the high end of our $625 million to $700 million range and an increase in share repurchases which are now expected to be $598 million for the year.
In addition with remaining Oxaliplatin inventory expected to be depleted in our fiscal third quarter we would expect the total contribution from specialty generics to be significantly greater in our fiscal third quarter than in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2011.
To summarize our new fiscal 2011 guidance range reflects GAAP EPS growth of between 9% and 12% despite a 3% headwind from prior year litigation gains and significant duplicate IT costs as we transition to our new ERP system.
So another great quarter in a series of great quarters.
And we continue to be excited about our positioning in the marketplace the dedication and the enthusiasm of our associates and our ability to execute in a dynamic industry.
Here is Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Amy.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
You guys called out generic Oxaliplatin as a big contributor in the quarter given this is supposed to be a period of bleeding inventory how does this beat your expectations? Maybe if you could give us a little color around pricing and who still has supply left around that product that'd be helpful.
I'll start off and then go to Mike.
This is Steve Collis you should know about the accent.
But the biggest factor here was that there is limited inventory in the markets and we obviously are a big participant in the market as well as the large increase in the ASD price and I think 92% or 94% increase in the quarter.
And that's really what drove it.
Mike any additional color? Yes.
Certainly that increase the ASD Robert gave us an ability to maintain pretty significant margins while providing great benefits to our physician customers as well.
So it's really more the pricing and as I said we continue to have some remaining inventory that will provide a $0.05 to $0.06 benefit in Q3.
It's roughly enough inventory to cover us halfway through the quarter or so.
That's helpful.
And I guess just one more on the Specialty if we think about the generic Taxotere launch I was wondering if you could characterize how that launch has gone so far relative to your expectations? And then I guess looking forward if you could share with us your expectations for this product for the balance of the year specifically in terms of the competitive landscape at pricing? I think we gave you some pretty detailed guidance on what specialty generics could mean to us in the back half of the year but really everything has gone pretty much as expected.
It was not an at-risk launch as Oxaliplatin was and really pretty much as expected.
Our next question is from Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
So I just wanted to -- my follow-up question I'll start with first and then I have a bigger picture question the follow-up then is for Mike.
And that is it seems like you're saying the generic specialty expectations for this year $0.36 to $0.40 versus your prior at least $0.25 so that's up $0.11 to $0.14.
Your overall guidance is up $0.08 to $0.10.
I know some of that is offset with a higher LIFO charge was anything else specifically that you called out to reconcile the differences? No I think Larry keep in mind that we said at least $0.25.
And our internal expectations obviously when we were doing a little bit better most likely in the high $0.20s.
So I think the way we look at it is the expectation's up around the $0.10 or so and that's right in line with our guidance raise.
And that's despite the fact that LIFO our expectation is a charge is going to increase by about $15 million or so or $0.03 from our expectations.
So I think they're very much aligned.
Good picture [ph] there.
Okay that sounds right.
And consistent with that I think you've always said Oxaliplatin has been somewhat unique in the market because of at-risk launch obviously you were very aggressive early on and now it's come back.
So I guess your message around Taxotere is -- it's consistent with your expectations but clearly from a margin standpoint it's hard to match -- hard to nearly match the Oxaliplatin contributions last year.
Is that right? Hard to match the contribution and hard to match the duration of the benefit which was extended of course that's specific to Oxaliplatin’s situation.
And another question is really on the Med D [Medicare Part D] provider that you disclosed previously.
And I know Steve one of the things you'd said is part of the value proposition that is resonating more in the marketplace as a combination of your ability to drive value in generics and brand along with specialty.
Can you elaborate a little bit you're now buying the brand specialty and the generics I guess for this customer.
Despite the fact that in the marketplace you think that they would be going direct on some of these products.
What's changing the mindset? And could you see other larger customers do the same thing in the future? Well we're not buying it we're distributing it to them Larry.
But of course I think specialty of course manufacturers typically go to a much smaller amount of distributors.
There are not that many qualified distributors.
We certainly have the bandwidth and the footprint there.
And we also have a lot of knowledge not only about distribution but our Services business really differentiates us and complements us.
We use the term in the transcript “thought leader ” and it's very apropos because that is what we are and we get recognized on that.
Just about every large drug company wholesale customer is interested in more access and more patient throughput of the specialty product.
So that clearly is becoming a competitive advantage and it's definitely -- we lead often with those discussions with RFPs.
Our next question is from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Steve or Mike despite the advent of generics over the years we have your gross margin that's basically fallen since 2003 or fallen or flat I guess despite some generic launches.
And really in 2010 only up as a matter of the specialty and less the oral solid.
So I guess why shouldn't I be a bit more pessimistic about the margin prospects going forward? But conversely from a balance sheet perspective why shouldn't we be a bit more optimistic about the cash flow opportunity on lower working capital going forward? Well Bob I would really point you to operating margin expansion because there's a lot of other factors that go into gross profit including the growth of some of your largest customers and your mix of business and the like.
But I think the most impressive thing is for us we've expanded our operating margin really since the advent of fee-for-service at least 5 basis points each of the last 5 years.
And despite increasing our EPS 31% last year and increasing our operating margin in the high teens we're doing it once again I think that's the power of generics and the power of our model.
And I think that has also turned into part of the cash flow story as well.
Our goal for cash flows have been that our free cash flow approximates our net income.
And you can only do that in an environment where you can grow revenues and keep working capital neutral which is hard to do.
And we've been able to do that and we've actually -- our free cash flow has actually exceeded our net income for each of the last several years.
So I think we're very pleased with the impact that generics have had both on our operating results and on our cash flow.
Can we see working capital actually fall over 2012 2013 time frame or just not possible? Well we always hope to have modest improvements.
And I think we're going to continue to do that.
Certainly what generics do give us is a little bit more influence with the manufacturers and we continue to get slightly better terms on generics than we get with brand names and hopefully we can turn that to our advantage.
I think we've got to keep in perspective that even though the generics continue to be the majority of the prescriptions the dollars continue to be very much weighted towards the brand name products.
Of course the larger customers pay quicker.
So it just depends on how the mixes come out in the future.
So larger customers tend to pay quicker.
Our next question is from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
As we listened to Hospira the other day they talked about sales of generic Taxotere being higher than their expectations.
Can you talk about whether any purchasing opportunities in the quarter where maybe you're still seeing it in your inventory? So that would be my first question.
And then secondly just around acquisitions.
Historically being in that $200 million to $300 million I think Steve you made the comment today that the company would be willing to look at larger acquisitions.
But if we think about the consolidation of the industry and the narrow focus that you have I don't really see a lot that would be above that $200 million $300 million if you don't move outside the U.S.
So my question is are you contemplating or would you contemplate an acquisition on the international side? I'll start off with the international acquisitions and Dave and I actually I took over Dave's board seat at IPW and we also had a group of European wholesalers visit us recently.
So we do have a lot of dialogue with international wholesalers.
What is surprising is how much better our business is than theirs.
It really is sobering.
First of all just one thing I'll point to which is very very glaring is the difference in relationship with the manufacturers.
If you don't have the sort of trust that we have in our business it's hard to do these reimbursement programs it's hard to do the adherence programs it's hard to have these intricate fee-for-service agreements.
So it's just very very different and we would really like to fund synergies and acquisitions and we don't really see those on the international side.
On your first question -- your second question about the docetaxel it was a typical launch.
We might have ordered a little bit more inventory than we would in any course of business but nothing exceptional.
And we're happy with the demand for docetaxel.
And our customers are ordering as expected.
Mike you're closer to that you want to? Yes nothing -- I would just agree with Steve.
Nothing unusual or normal load up for our new product introduction and everything seems to be going very much according to plan.
And then Mike if I can just ask a follow-up just around ASP when you talked about it as it pertains to Oxaliplatin earlier.
Should we just understand that you're not directly reimbursed right? It's the physician practice that's reimbursed it just offers you the opportunity to have a little more flexibility around price when no reimbursement rates are higher is that the correct way to think about it? That's exactly right Lisa.
Our next question is from Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
I just have 2 quick ones.
Mike I just want to make sure I understood all your guidance correctly you sort of suggested that the fiscal '11 Specialty contribution would be $0.36 to $0.40 and then in '12 that falls to $0.10 to $0.15 with a net difference of a headwind of about $0.25.
So you sort of suggested that the generic launches in fiscal '12 and the clip kind of lines up neatly with your fiscal year that incremental contribution you think is at least $0.25? Is that sort of what you're suggesting? Yes I think generally Glen that's the message we're trying to give is that we will have a substantial offset.
It's obviously very early and there's a lot of time between now and the beginning of the year.
But I think our early look is that we should have a substantial offset to the specialty headwind with the oral generic oral solid generic side in the drug company.
And the only caution I would give to that is obviously the higher we go in our range in 2011 and particularly if we're high due to the items that are nonrecurring in '12 the harder it is to add on top of that growth rate.
But I think our early look is we look -- we see a great offset and we see a nice growth here in '12.
Okay.
And then maybe if I could just ask one follow-up along that.
I mean clearly the contribution from the specialty generics is nice but could you maybe talk about what you're seeing in terms of the profit trends on your base generics business? There's been a lot of talk obviously around the pricing around generics.
And so you're sort of suggesting that the increase in the guidance this quarter was solely attributable to the increase in Specialty.
So could you maybe focus your comments a little bit on the traditional generics business and what you're seeing there? Yes I think it was a very solid performance with our traditional oral solid generic business.
We did have a slight uptick in launches year-over-year in the quarter which helped us out.
And that's something we had expected based upon the calendar for this particular quarter.
We continue to see a bit of generic price increases again not overly material to us but a nice little incremental benefit.
And as I've said the circumstances that caused some of those price increases are still out there and we may see some of those in the future.
They're obviously pretty hard to predict.
But I think the way I would characterize it is very solid performance.
Very much in line with what we expected.
Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
I guess first question was just around buybacks versus acquisitions doesn't sound like international is all that attractive in your view.
You've talked about being open to acquisitions as you guys always do but you did increase the buyback expectations for the year.
So should we -- I guess just conceptually be thinking that acquisitions are sort of a longer-term thing on the radar screen as opposed to there being anything unusually imminent there? No we're always very active.
We're always having ongoing discussions and we don't have any acquisitions in our guidance as we said.
But we remain active and we do see opportunities particularly in the specialty distributors and service providers.
Mike anything? Yes Tom I think we said this from very early in the year to the extent that our cash flow expectations or cash flow met our expectations and we didn't spend an unusual amount on acquisitions.
We would have the ability to upsize our share repurchase.
So I think what we've done is just very much in line with that.
But as Steve said doesn't change our view on acquisitions.
And the fact that is we continue to be very active in a corporate development perspective looking for things that would add value to our shareholders but in the meantime if they're not there we'll periodically return monies through share repurchase.
So you felt good about the balance sheet I guess and your flexibility to do deals even with a little bigger buyback? Exactly.
Okay good.
And then just my follow-up was on the SAP conversion.
Can you just sort of remind us about how the benefits roll in? And maybe ultimately the cost savings that you're expecting? Or I guess the elimination of also [ph] redundant costs along the way? Tom coming into this year and really starting the fourth quarter of last year we mentioned that we would have $10 million of incremental costs per quarter continuing through the end of calendar '12.
At the end of calendar '12 we expected to be complete with our customer and distribution center implementations of the new system and at that point we'll really start to be able to unhook the old system and start to capture some of those duplicate costs that we were spending up until that point it may not be day one it may take a little bit of time in fiscal '13.
But we'll certainly start to realize those savings during that time period.
And certainly one of the reasons we put the new system in was just not to avoid the duplicate costs but to improve our processes improve our customer experience and -- putting in the system we think gives us somewhat of a competitive advantage.
So I think we'll hopefully realize some of those benefits as well.
And Tom just to refresh your memory Steve mentioned we're right on schedule.
We've gotten the -- we're doing the back office now in the new system and as Steve mentioned this summer we'll rollout the first so AC.
So we're steady as she goes in that schedule.
Our next question is from Steven Valiquette with UBS.
So Mike you made it pretty easy given all the color on the specialty generics I think we definitely all appreciate that.
My additional question tied into that that haven't been asked yet is that as far as the fiscal '12 the $0.10 to $0.15 in the specialty for next fiscal year you should probably just assume you've taken a conservative stance in that regard would you assume maybe the full multisource generic markets for generic Gemzar and Taxotere in particular but then maybe there could be an upside if we see fewer manufacturers in those markets is that kind of a way to think about that? Yes I think that's right.
I think we assume a handful of manufacturers with each product.
And some of the benefits from the reimbursement start to kick in after 6 months or so.
So I think both of those will contribute to that moderation in fiscal '12.
Okay.
And then just real quick just on the -- you talked about some price increases tied to generic supply disruptions helping you a little bit but just kind of curious again I mean how would you characterize that for the current environment March quarter versus let's say a year ago? Is that helping you materially? Or is it about the same year-over-year just trying to get a sense for generic supply disruption activity the way you see it? I'd say the price increase has been a slight benefit.
Year-over-year there's definitely a lot of issues that are out there.
I think we try do the best job for our customers.
And our broad sourcing philosophy certainly helps us to do that.
But when there's just not any product out there there's sometimes very little that we can do.
And that's been evident lately.
It was evident at some point last year as well.
And I'd say it's a slight benefit overall this year.
Our next question is from Helene Wolk with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question around competitive dynamics and whether you're seeing any changes in the marketplace following the Kinray and U.S.
Oncology acquisitions? Helene firstly on the U.S.
Oncology we have definitively maintained our market share.
We have some dialogue going on with some McKesson customers that don't necessarily want to be associated with U.S.
Oncology but nothing remarkable it's really steady as she goes and we are absolutely maintaining our market share and we really very much focused on the service side and looking at the value add we can give to oncologists.
On the Kinray side and obviously if you will listen to the earlier call we continue to believe that this is an opportunity for us.
We have been and always have -- we've been active in the New York market for a while and we've added a few customers.
And we continue to believe that there's an opportunity for us.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then just a question for Mike around the pattern of operating expenses.
I know you gave us some good clear guidance around sort of what we should expect for the full year any thought or advice on how it plays out between the quarters? Yes I think you'll see you should see a slight increase sequentially in the third quarter and the fourth quarter Helene.
In the third quarter we put through our annual merit increases.
In the fourth quarter we run our customer trade show which just adds several million dollars to the expense in the fourth quarter.
So slight upticks in the second half of the year.
Our next question is from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Just a couple of questions.
First of all on the operating margin progression you talked about operating margins up mid- to high-single digits this year.
When we think about fiscal year '12 do you expect a greater improvement in operating margins next year? If growth from new generics with exclusivity is more than offset kind of like the smaller specialty contribution that you've talked about? Well Ricky I think you're going to see a year next year were top lines are going to be pretty pretty flat and could be slightly down depending upon the timing of some of the launches and I think that implies that you're going to have to grow your EBIT through margin expansion.
And I'd say that would be our goal at this point.
I think the other thing Ricky is as you look at '12 I mean you got to put in perspective where we've been in '10 '11 and then '12.
Our '10 was huge.
We were up -- our EPS was up 31% that year we followed it up now with another strong year.
So you've got to put those years in comparison as you're -- in perspective as you're looking at our '12 and '13 and beyond.
Okay.
And just on the generic I'm not sure if you gave the data point but what was the growth for your generic business? Mid-teens growth.
Our next question is from George Hill with Citigroup.
To follow up on Lisa's question earlier it's very early but as you start to see changes in the specialty delivery model especially in cancer as some of these drugs are carved out in the medical benefit and trying to be carved into the pharmacy benefit do you see any risk there or any exposure there to what your reimbursement rate look like and profitability in that space? As I've said we do have progress for all the drugs but our bet is with the physician.
And we are really focused on the physician in helping maintain those drugs through the physician delivery system.
Okay.
And then a quick follow-up on M&amp;A while it doesn't sound like -- international sounds kind of quiet are you guys seeing an opportunity in unit-dose packaging? And are you seeing an increased demand for those services from your provider customers? And is that something that you guys are looking at? Yes we have a business that does that.
We believe we're one of the largest players in that space and certainly the business is doing very well and is slightly ahead of expectations.
But still relatively small within the $25 billion $20 billion that we do roughly in the quarter so.
Our last question comes from A.J.
Rice with Susquehanna.
This is Brandon [ph] for AJ.
I guess the last question here would be branded drug price inflation.
What were your expectations coming into the year? And have price increases so far this year been a little better than what you've been looking for? Brandon this is Mike.
Yes they certainly have.
I mean we have had brand price inflation that has been an excess of 8%.
Each of our last two fiscal years and our expectation was that that was going to moderate some maybe in the 5% to 6% range.
But I think halfway through the year it certainly seems that the greater than 8% mark is going to hold.
And certainly that seems to be driven particularly by some of the larger drugs that are going to go off of patent.
So it's been a pretty robust first half.
And now Dave would like to make some final comments.
I just want to thank you again for joining us and for your interest in ABC.
We continue to be very bullish on our industry and the position that we've got in that industry.
We just reported a strong quarter in a series of strong quarters and raised guidance on a year that followed a year that had a 31% increase in GAAP EPS.
So there's lots to like about ABC.
This is my 56th and final quarter I will report as CEO and I'm happy to be waltzing out the door on a very high note and with the prospects of the company being so bright.
There's absolutely no doubt in my mind that ABC will continue to prosper under Steve's leadership.
And yes that ABC circle of life will just continue to get better and better.
Thank you for the support you've given ABC over the years that I have been associated with it and thank you very much for the support you've given me over the last 56 years -- last 56 quarters.
Though sometimes it seemed like 56 years but it's actually 56 quarters.
All things considered it's been a great ride so thank you very much.
Barb? Thanks Dave.
And before we go I just like to highlight two upcoming events.
On May 11 we'll be attending the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Healthcare Conference in Las Vegas and on June 8 we'll be attending the Goldman Sachs Healthcare Conference in Rancho Palo Verde California.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] I would also like to remind participants that today's conference is being recorded.
If anyone has any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I will turn the meeting over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call covering our third quarter of fiscal 2011.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mike Dicandilo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2010.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call.
And this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steven Collis to begin our comments.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
This is my first quarterly earnings call as President and CEO of AmerisourceBergen.
And I'm very pleased to start off my career as CEO by reporting such outstanding results.
We continue to deliver very strong performance on top of exceptional performance in the prior year.
And as we enter our fourth quarter we are well on our way to achieving very good results for our fiscal year that ends on September 30.
Our revenues were over $20 billion in the quarter the first time we eclipsed that mark and an increase of $0.5 billion over last year.
Once again we reported a double-digit increase in gross profit that was driven by specialty generics and helped operating earnings grow 12.5% in the quarter.
Our operating expenses increased 9.8% in the quarter as we continue to invest in our future both through our SAP implementation and through other internal projects designed to help drive long-term efficiency the most significant of which we call Energize [ph].
I'll talk about Energize later in my comments and Mike will detail the financials.
But I want to assure you that we remain vigilant on cost while focused on growing our business.
Our operating margin was up an outstanding 13 basis points this quarter.
And our diluted earnings per share were $0.66 which is a 16% increase on top of what was a 36% increase last year on a GAAP basis.
We continue to do an excellent job managing working capital and we had $2 billion in cash on hand at the end of June giving us tremendous financial flexibility.
This excellent performance continues to demonstrate the strength of our 2 growth drivers: Generics and Specialty and positions us well to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead in 2012 and beyond.
Before I discuss some additional specifics about our company I'd like to make a few comments about the state of our industry.
Our industry is vibrant and growing.
It remains competitive but stable with solid organic growth and favorable demographics.
Brand and price appreciation remains strong though mitigated by fee-for-service agreements.
We are just a few months away from the largest wave of brand to generic conversions in history.
As an industry we continue to demonstrate that we provide an essential service and immense value to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers alike taking costs out of the pharmaceutical supply channel and delivering products safely efficiently and just in time.
In addition we provide significant credit and inventory management services that reduce risks and working capital throughout the supply channel.
And we provide valuable data regarding supply and demand in the marketplace.
As a new CEO I can't think of an industry that I'm more proud to be a part of and I'm increasingly excited about AmeriSourceBergen's position and prospects within our industry.
As I turn now to the performance of our individual business units I want to once again highlight the areas I've been focusing on to drive shareholder value.
First collaborating to drive innovation for providers and manufacturers; second increasing customer and supplier value; third expanding our business in targeted markets; and fourth maximizing operating efficiency through cross-company collaboration.
Lastly our senior management team is focused on continuing to drive the high-performance culture that has historically distinguished ABC.
Our associates always rise to meet any challenge or opportunity we put in front of them.
And I believe these excellent results are in no small way a reflection of the outstanding contribution they make everyday.
Focusing on these key areas has enabled us to continue to deliver value to all of our stakeholders and will position us well to take full advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead.
One example of collaborating to drive innovation is the work we are doing in educating our retailers and increasing their ability to understand and manage the need of specialty manufacturers.
Our vast experience with independents and in the specialty space gives us a unique ability to help our customers navigate this increasingly important market and to provide the tools they need to expand the offerings to patients.
We call this our specialty pharmacy network or SPN.
In the June quarter we had solid performance across all of our business units.
Revenues in our drug company were up 4% in line with the expectations with particularly strong performance in our alternate site segments and among our independents.
During the quarter we began the process of expanding our Amityville Long Island distribution center in order to better serve the expanding New York market and our growing share in that market.
One of the key items of note during the quarter for ABDC is that we converted our first distribution center onto our new SAP platform.
The conversion is only a few weeks old and we still have some work to do.
But considering the magnitude of this implementation I'm very pleased with the progress we have made.
This was a major milestone for our company and I'd like to thank the many associates who have worked hard to ensure the success of the implementation and our customers who have been enthusiastic about helping us manage the process change that a conversion of this scope entails.
This important investment in our future is similar to the investments we made in our distribution centers following the merger and will position us well for long term success.
In addition to our investment in systems we've invested in our Energize program which is designed to ensure that we maximize the opportunities provided by the SAP enterprise-level platform and by the generic conversions in the years ahead.
The Energize program is a combination of initiatives to maximize sales force productivity improve customer compliance and drive efficiency by linking our IT capabilities more effectively with our operations.
ABSG our Specialty Group delivered stellar performance particularly in our oncology business.
The most important driver of our outperformance in the June quarter was once again the performance of the 3 key specialty generics: Oxaliplatin gemcitabine and docetaxel.
We don't like to discuss individual products but these 3 have continued to make extraordinary contributions to our results.
Mike will detail the specifics but the net result is that all 3 products performed better than expected in the June quarter.
It is important to note however that we have sold out of Oxaliplatin and will not be commercially available again until August of 2012.
It is also important to note that over time the profit contributions from gemcitabine and docetaxel will moderate as more manufacturers enter the market and reimbursement rates decline.
Our consulting group continues to gain traction and performed well in the quarter.
We broke this unit out from ABSG at the beginning of this year to give it more exposure to the entire company and are more convinced than ever that it was the right thing to do.
With all of the dynamic changes in Healthcare driven by reform initiatives and cost pressures the contributions that our thought [ph] leaders in our consulting group have made have been invaluable.
The level of expertise we can bring to conversations with manufacturers is unmatched and is a key differentiator for AmerisourceBergen in the complex marketplace we face today.
Our Packaging Group had a very good strong quarter as it continues to develop new lines of business particularly in the specialty and clinical trials space.
The business continues to have good momentum having signed a record number of contracts in the month of June.
Given the strong balance sheet we reported today I want to reiterate our position on acquisitions.
Our criteria for acquisitions are as follows: They should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel; they should be within our established core competency; and they should increase shareholder value.
While we do not contemplate any contributions from acquisitions in our guidance we are receptive to acquisitions and have spent over $1 billion in acquisitions since the formation of ABC.
We continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceutical and specialty distribution of services as well as consulting and packaging services.
And while we historically have been very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range we will consider something larger if it made good strategic sense and would deliver value to our company and our shareholders.
We remain in excellent position for acquisitions both financially and organizationally.
As we have said and demonstrated before in event that we do not find acquisitions that increase shareholder value we will consider returning money to shareholders either through increased share repurchases or dividends.
As I wrap things up I want to comment on some news about our largest customer that broke last week and then give you my very early thoughts on our fiscal 2012.
As many of you know Medco announced that they will be merging with Express Scripts.
We have a long-standing and excellent working relationship with Medco and we have a solid contract that extends through March of 2013.
We were recently named Medco Supplier of the Year for the second year in a row and we will continue to serve Medco with the outstanding service they expect from ABC.
As the combination of the 2 PBM businesses evolves we will of course make every effort to extend our relationship well into the future.
We have previously disclosed that Medco currently accounts for 18% of our revenues virtually all of which is with sale of branded drugs.
As you would expect for a customer of this size with limited distribution points its pricing is very competitive therefore it only contributes about 5% to our earnings.
Now turning to next year.
As we have previously discussed the extraordinary performance of the 3 key specialty generics this year has created a headwind for us next year particularly in light of the fact that Oxaliplatin is not expected to make any further contributions to our results until late in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2012 and we expect the contributions from gemcitabine and docetaxel to moderate next year.
We do however expect an extraordinary contribution from oral solid generics in our drug company to help offset that headwind.
Certainly it will be very difficult to meet our long term EPS growth target of 15% next year given our outperformance this year.
But we do see a pathway to solid growth and could see growth in the 7% to 10% range.
We have not yet completed our planning process for next year and we will give our formal guidance for fiscal 2012 as usual in early November.
Looking ahead even further in fiscal 2013 we expect to see a bigger contribution from specialty generics and we will begin to experience some of the benefits of our new ERP system.
We also expect that some of the benefits from oral solid generics converting late in fiscal 2012 will carry over into fiscal 2013.
Fiscal year 2014 should benefit from the approximately 30 million or so uninsured patients entering the healthcare system with pent-up demand for pharmaceutical products.
And our early look at our fiscal years 2014 and 2015 indicates good years for generic introductions potentially including biosimilars.
Last week I attended our NHC or retail tradeshow in Las Vegas.
It gave me an excellent opportunity to converse with many of our customers and suppliers both large and small.
I was reminded again about how important our role is to our customers and indeed how strong our franchise is.
My job is to ensure that we carry on building and enhancing those valued relationships.
Thanks for your time and I hope I've been able to effectively communicate to all of you my excitement about the bright future for ABC.
Now here is Mike.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
As Yogi Berra once said it's déjà vu all over again.
Our tremendous performance in our third fiscal quarter follows the same theme as our second quarter with solid performance across all of our business units enhanced by extraordinary performance in our oncology franchise leading to GAAP EPS growth of 16%.
Excluding the $0.05 benefit to last year's June quarter from litigation gains quarterly EPS would have increased 27%.
In addition to our operating results we took a very big step in Business Transformation program.
Our credit ratings were upgraded by Moody's and we increased our dividend once again.
We are well-positioned after 9 months to meet or exceed all of the business and financial goals we set for ourselves at the beginning of the fiscal year.
I will detail the impressive contribution to the quarter from the big 3 specialty generics as well as their impact on our increased EPS guidance for fiscal '11 and the challenges we will have in fiscal '12 as their profit contribution moderates.
Now let's turn to our June quarter results starting with the top line.
Our revenue of $20.2 billion in the quarter exceeded the $20 billion mark for the first time and increased 3% in total.
Drug company revenues were up 4% in the quarter and specialty revenues were down 2% in the quarter consistent with our guidance for these business units.
Drug company growth was driven by alternate site and independent customer growth.
Specialty top line growth continues to be impacted by the prior year loss of a large 3PL customer the change in reimbursement methodology in the dialysis business and generics which have moderated our top line growth but continue to be a gross profit driver.
Gross profit of $654 million in the June quarter increased a robust 11% and would have been up even more if not for the $18 million reduction in litigation gains from the prior year quarter.
A good portion of that gross profit increase year-over-year came from the sales of the 3 large specialty generics which together contributed $0.17 of EPS to the current quarter compared to $0.05 in last June's quarter from these drugs.
As expected we sold our remaining Oxaliplatin inventory in the June quarter which contributed $0.08 of the $0.17 EPS contribution with docetaxel and gemcitabine together contributing the other $0.09.
These 3 drugs have now contributed $0.39 to earnings in the first 9 months of fiscal '11 and we expect another $0.06 or $0.07 contribution in 4Q.
Overall generic growth was also strong in the drug company which grew generic revenue in double digits once again this quarter.
Before I leave gross profit our LIFO charge for the June quarter was $11 million consistent with last year.
For the 9 months ended June 30 our LIFO charge was $35 million compared to the $30 million for the same period last year.
Turning to expenses our operating expenses of $336 million were up a higher-than-normal 10% or $30 million in the current quarter compared to last June.
As we expected $10 million of this increase came from the cost of maintaining duplicate IT platforms.
An additional $15 million of this increase came from the following: consulting expenses related to our Energize program; an acceleration in pension expense due to executive retirements; and the increases in incentive compensation none of which are expected to continue at the rate they impacted this quarter.
Also as a reminder prior year operating expenses were reduced by $4 million due to the reversal of a litigation accrual.
On a year-to-date basis operating expenses have increased 6%.
And we would expect that growth rate to moderate in the fourth quarter.
As a result of our strong gross profit growth in the June quarter operating income increased 12.5% despite the headwind from the $23 million of litigation gains included in last year's third quarter operating income.
Operating margins increased by an impressive 13 basis points to 157 basis points in the June quarter and are also up 13 basis points on a year-to-date basis.
With our increased EPS guidance operating margin expansion is now expected to be in the low double-digit basis point range for fiscal 2011.
This will be our sixth consecutive year of significant operating margin expansion.
Below the operating income line net interest expense of $19 million was up 4% in the quarter.
Our effective tax rate in the June quarter was 38.2% compared to 38.1% last year.
And while we continue to expect our normal annualized rate to be 38.4% we expect that we will be slightly below that rate in fiscal '11.
Our diluted EPS in the quarter of $0.66 increased by $0.09 or 16% compared to last year's June quarter and again excluding the $0.05 benefit from litigation gains last year would have been up $0.14 or 27%.
Our 16% EPS growth exceeded the 13% increase in net income due to the 3% reduction in average diluted shares outstanding from our share repurchase program net of stock option exercises over the last 12 months.
Average diluted shares in the quarter were 279 million.
And common shares outstanding at the end of June were 272 million.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows which were very strong once again in the June quarter.
We generated $231 million of cash from operations in the quarter bringing our year-to-date total to $808 million compared to $559 million last year.
Capital expenditures were $34 million in the quarter and $127 million for the 9 months.
And we continue to expect the full year spend of approximately $175 million.
With free cash flow already at $680 million through 9 months we expect that we will exceed the high end of our $625 million to $700 million range for the year.
Part of the rise in our cash flow expectations reflects the benefit of a significant increase in deferred taxes resulting from bonus depreciation related to our Business Transformation spend.
This benefit is expected to be approximately $60 million for the current fiscal year.
Also as I have mentioned frequently our working capital can be very volatile and timing at quarter-end can have a big impact on our quarter-to-quarter cash flow results.
From a quarterly standpoint average inventory days on hand were 24 days consistent with last June.
Average DSOs of 17 were also similar to last year as were average days payable outstanding.
Our gross debt to total debt and capital ratio at the end of June was 30% in line with our target range of 30% to 35%.
We bought back $145 million of our shares during the quarter and now have bought back $400 million of our shares through 9 months.
As I mentioned last quarter we expect to purchase $598 million of our shares in fiscal '11 which represents the entire amount we had remaining on our board share repurchase authorization as we entered fiscal '11.
In addition we announced the 15% increase in our dividend in May our second dividend increase in this fiscal year and we have had dividend increases for 6 consecutive years.
Our cash balance of $2 billion at the end of June continues to leave us with great financial flexibility as we look forward.
Now moving to guidance.
Reflecting our strong third quarter performance and the fact that we have only 3 months left in our fiscal year we are raising and narrowing our diluted EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 to a range of $2.52 to $2.56 from our previous range of $2.41 and $2.49 per share.
This increased guidance continues to reflect revenue growth of 2% to 4% reflects increased operating margin expansion which is now expected to be in the low-double-digit basis point range reflects free cash flow that should now exceed the high end of our $625 million to $700 million range and share repurchase expectations remain at $598 million.
Before I conclude let me give a little more detail around Steve's comments regarding fiscal '12.
I want to make it clear that by no means are we reducing our dollar EPS targets for fiscal '12 but are simply reflecting that our outperformance in fiscal '11 has given us a higher base starting point.
Our revised EPS guidance for fiscal 2011 now reflects 14% to 15% growth over fiscal 2010 which as a reminder grew 31% over fiscal 2009.
Our original guidance for fiscal 2011 called for 4% to 9% EPS growth.
And we have far exceeded those targets due to the performance of the 3 big specialty generics.
These 3 products are now expected to contribute $0.45 to $0.46 to EPS in fiscal '11 compared to our original expectation of $0.25 plus EPS contribution.
Next year with Oxaliplatin not returning to the market until August 2012 and the moderation we expect from docetaxel and gemcitabine as more suppliers enter the market and reimbursement declines we expect only a $0.10 to $0.15 benefit from these 3 Generics.
Obviously we expect a strong offset from the oral solid generic wave starting early in our fiscal '12.
And with that offset we see a pathway to solid EPS growth that could be in the range of 7% to 10% for fiscal '12.
Keep in mind we are in a very dynamic healthcare environment and we will continue to refine our expectations throughout the remainder of our fiscal '12 planning process.
And we'll give you full details as usual in November.
So to summarize our updated fiscal 2011 guidance range now reflects GAAP EPS growth of between 14% and 15% a significant increase over our original GAAP guidance of 4% to 9%.
We expect solid growth in fiscal '12 as our continued strong presence in specialty and generics continues to be our growth driver.
We have made great strides in our internal initiatives.
We have been energized by the enthusiasm of our provider and supplier customers who attended our National Healthcare Conference &amp; Exhibition last week.
And we continue to have the most talented and dedicated associates in the industry.
The future continues to look very bright for AmerisourceBergen.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead operator.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Larry Marsh Barclays Capital.
Steve official welcome as CEO I know as you said you started out with great results.
I know you'll continue to be successful at ABC so congrats on the quarter.
I really just wanted to reflect on kind of your general thoughts at the marketplace at this sort of preliminary stage for next year's -- I think as you and Mike talked about kind of a midpoint of sort of the mid-270s for next year as a starting point for thinking of expectations for fiscal '12.
How are you thinking of the macro environment I guess as you look at the next year? Is it kind of as you're seeing today? Are you anticipating any incremental improvement around pricing apart from obviously the benefit of oral solids or are you assuming some incremental same-store margin pressure? And then I have a quick follow-up around Medco.
Well Larry I remember 5 quarters ago when you called it a quarter for the ages I appreciate your compliment and I'm enjoying the role.
And I appreciate the good wishes.
We obviously had better-than-expected results from injectables.
And you should remember that Oxaliplatin was really a unique situation.
And the other 2 we benefited from the 6-month exclusivity period and limited manufacturers and high ASPs which can be reduced very very quickly.
So yes we have some of those dynamics going on at the oral solids next year.
So our 2 key growth drivers are specialty and generics.
I think we executed very well in all those areas.
You saw tremendous contribution above expectations from on the specialty injectables side with the 3 big drugs.
And I think you'll see us execute very well in the oral solid area next year.
And we're looking forward to that.
I think our customers are looking forward to that.
You'll see great performance from us.
Mike anything to add? No certainly Larry revenue growth in the entire industry is going to be a little bit moderated because of the generic trend.
And much of the operating income growth is going to come from operating margin expansion.
I mean I think that's the general dynamic that we expect to see and that we have been planning for for some time.
And it's incorporated to those early thoughts.
And then just on Medco specifically you called out the nature of the relationship is such you've got a strong relationship certainly and it contributes roughly 5% of earnings.
So just clarify that a bit when you think of that is that 5% of kind of the earnings stream in calendar 2012 or is it really sort of 5% of trailing earnings or somewhere in the middle? Larry it's really 5% at our current run rate.
At the current run rate that you were just now speaking of okay.
It's just important to note that Medco only buys branded drugs from us.
Your next question comes from Tom Gallucci Lazard.
Just following up on sort of the early outlook for next year.
Where are you I guess in the planning process or the budgeting process at this stage? Is it sort of done or you're just in the early stages of it and what have you factored in for buybacks or cash utilization in that range that you offered? Tom we're fairly very early in the process.
We're actually starting to visit our distribution regions and then our business units in the month of August to have our formal planning presentations and we'll continue to analyze information for some time.
So I think it's early.
I think at this point I really don't want to get into detail of each of the key components of EPS growth which really the revenue growth which again I think the whole industry is going to moderate some.
I mean we certainly expect operating margin expansion and we certainly expect that we'll deploy our capital to contribute to that EPS growth.
But at this point I don't want to drill down on each factor as they could change by the time we give guidance in early November.
And then just following up Steve I think you have highlighted in this call and in the past sort of how you've broken out that consulting business out of the Specialty Group.
Can you talk about maybe the leverage that you're seeing or how you're making an impact on the traditional sort of drug distribution side of the business? What's your capabilities on the specialties side? Yes I think definitely it's a trend towards our real world evidence and we think we one of the participants in the forefront of that I think people want to know what's going on real-time post-launch.
We participate very strongly in REMS programs through our specialty and consulting business and increasing the drug company as well.
We have field-based reimbursement expertise as well as program management expertise.
So what's been one of the promising trend is more drug approvals in this last couple of quarters.
And we participated vigorously in that.
And a lot of these drugs are in the main drug wholesale business as well and are becoming more complex there's a lot more oral cancer drugs.
So I think again looking at AmerisourceBergen more as an integrated company taking advantage of all our capabilities is really a lot of the work that I started as COO and will be continuing as CEO.
Your next question comes from Robert Jones Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
I just want to confirm one thing.
Are you guys sure there's no more Oxaliplatin left? Are you sure you checked everywhere? Yes we have 2 bottles in Mike's office on his wall.
And we made sure that they actually didn't have real solution in it because we wanted to sell it.
On the gross margin you're obviously quite a bit better in the quarter.
Mike could you just maybe parse out for us how much of that was from specialty specifically Oxaliplatin versus the rest of the business? As I mentioned about the 3 the 3 generics contributed $0.17 of EPS contribution.
You do the math there and it's a little bit over $70 million compared to the $0.05 benefit or roughly $25 million they contributed last year.
So we did have about a $50 million or so increase year-over-year contribution from those drugs.
Got it.
It's helpful.
And then Steve you mentioned the growing importance of the New York metro area.
I was hoping just 2 quick points there.
Could you touch on maybe some of the market share shifts that you've been seeing in the retail independents in that area? And then the follow-up just more broadly as we think about some of these very important upcoming launches are there special measures you guys are taking or plan on taking to ensure compliance with the retail independent customers around specific drugs? In our drug network we have 27 distribution centers and are Amityville distribution center has got a growth rate in excess of any of the others and that's why we've expanded.
We're looking at the run rate we have with certain customers.
And our current run rate is very robust in that market.
So I can't talk specifically how others are doing but we are doing well if not better-than-expected with growth rates in 30% to 40% with the current run rates.
So we're excited about the opportunities we have there as we pointed out on the last call.
And we'll continue to execute against that.
On the second part of the question there's no doubt that we expect the dynamic generic market next year.
A lot of focus is on programs like first to shelve to make sure we got the products to our customers right away.
We look at the generic efficiency component which is really how quickly do products convert.
And I think the bar keeps on getting lifted and AmeriSourceBergen wants to help our customers participate in that.
So those are the sort of things we're looking at.
I mentioned the Energize program.
We are using the Energize program.
And we did spend -- as you know a lot of money this quarter looking specifically at compliance and how can we do better.
One of the key tools that we have is our insight program which helps measure compliance and helps benchmark our independent pharmacies against other like pharmacies.
And we're encouraged by the adoption and utilization rate for programs like that.
The next question comes from Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Steve or Mike can you not accelerate the ERP implementation given some of the earnings upside to your plan this year? Or have you done that or is it just not possible? Well Bob our goal is to -- first off we're very happy with our rollout in June in our third [ph] location.
It has gone very well and we're very very pleased.
We are going to continue those implementations.
Our next one is in September.
And then we'll follow very quickly with many others and expect to complete those implementations around the end of fiscal '12 or so.
And I'll tell you they are big events for us Bob.
And they take a lot of planning and a lot of careful thought and a lot of interaction with our customers.
So we're in no hurry to rush through that process.
We'll do it in a very methodical way and with the care and execution that you would expect from us.
So very pleased with the results.
But we'll continue along at the pace that we had indicated.
Okay.
And on the Medco what do you do with them that you might consider so proprietary that it could be a barrier to that relationship switching? Well I think the only thing that you would point to is the extraordinary service that we give to Medco.
And our focus throughout these next couple of quarters would be really on maintaining that excellent standard.
And there's no reason that we should do anything different.
And we've had the account for a long time.
We were really proud to be named the VIP supplier 2 years in a row.
I think that that just points to the closeness of the relationship.
And we certainly -- Medco is a growing specialty component so we do a good job there as well.
So we have a solid contract as we see it until mid-2013.
And we expect to earn our place at the table to carry on enhancing and preserving that relationship.
Is there any major software or expense commitment to supporting that relationship that would disappear? No.
No there's no not any cost Bob that are special that we wouldn't able to take out that very quickly.
Your next question comes from Lisa Gill JP Morgan.
Just a quick follow up on Medco.
I think you made the comment Steve that it's primarily branded today.
Can you maybe just talk about is there any opportunity at all as we start to move into this next big generic wave for them to buy any generics from you? Or should we only think of generic sales going to the independent markets that are buying generics today? Well they don't only go to the independents.
I mean we do a very good business with regional drive.
We've got an increasing hospital generic business that we -- as one of the key differentiators for us.
We've got a really strong other mail order business and skilled nursing facilities long-term care facilities for example which of course are really key target areas for us.
If you look at one of the key tenets that I have increasing share and targeted markets one of the key goals that we have as a drug company is to increase generic share in all the markets that I've mentioned.
As far as opportunities I wouldn't close the door to it.
But it's a very different type of generic trend that you see with companies like those.
So we haven't been successful working on those areas but not to say that we don't keep talking about that and that there isn't that possibility in the future.
But as they move towards the generic wave then and the margin on this business being so much lower than everything else that should bring up the overall margin of your business right? That's one way to think about it.
And then secondly when you think about generic penetration in all the different customer segments that you talked about can you maybe just talk about where you are today? Are you at 70% or 80% penetration? Do you think you can get to 95% or are you at 90%? And do you think you can get to 95%? How much delta is still left out in the marketplace for you to capture that incremental share? Lisa this is Mike.
First off I do agree with your thoughts that margins would go up as you lose some of the lower margin business through this generic conversion era.
Secondly I think how I would characterize it is that we're in different stages with different parts of our business.
Our retail business I think we continue to think we were slightly north of 80% or so.
And our goal is to continue to creep that up and continue to improve compliance.
So I think the good news is over the last couple of years we've been moving in that direction as our generic growth has exceeded the overall market growth.
So we are making some strides there.
We've had a particular focus as Steve mentioned on things like some of our alternate site customers.
We've gone to great lengths to customize some of our generic programs for the subsectors within the alternate site business and have continued to increase our share there.
I think you're probably more in the 50% to 60% penetration range for some of those accounts.
And that's an area that continues to be of great opportunity for us.
And I would characterize the hospital space it's a little bit more limited on the oral solid side from the hospital space.
But we've always distributed the oral solid generics to the hospitals.
But many in the past often that was through their own contracts or GPO contracts.
We've been able to convert more of that to our proprietary ProGenerics contract and have been very successful with that.
So I think that's more of the trend that you'll see in the hospital area going forward.
And so I'll leave that -- there continues to be great opportunities for us not to just capture the new products but to increase our penetration with our existing customers.
And just as a quick follow-up is that contemplated in this initial outlook that you have in the 7% to 10% range? Or is it just looking at the conversion of what drugs will be losing patent protection as we go into next year? Increased compliance is one of our key goals.
It always has been.
The next question comes from Glen Santangelo Crédit Suisse.
Mike and Steve I just want to make sure I have some of these numbers correct that you gave last quarter and this quarter.
Mike if I heard you correctly last quarter you seem to suggest that the specialty contribution was $0.35 to $0.40 in fiscal '11.
And that was going to $0.10 to $0.15 next year.
So we had a $0.25 hole to fill.
Now you're kind of telling us that that hole that needs to be filled is $0.35 given the increased specialty contribution that you're currently seeing.
And if I heard you correctly you seem to say that the oral solid generics were going to fill that $0.25 hole.
Now you're saying they're going to fill the $0.35 hole as well? Glen first off I think I said $0.36 to $0.40 last quarter for the specialty just to clarify that and $0.10 to $0.15 for next year.
And you're correct that was a $0.25 hole this year -- or this quarter excuse me.
I'm now saying $0.45 to $0.46 down to $0.10 to $0.15.
And that's the $0.35 hole.
As I've said last quarter I think the generics are going to give us substantial offset to that.
But obviously the gap is a little bit higher.
And that's going to be a little bit of a drag on our growth rate which is why we're talking about a pathway to 7% to 10% versus our normal long-term targets of 15% or so.
So our thoughts about next year from an internal target for dollar EPS really haven't changed at all.
The only thing that changed is this year has gone up.
And we now expect 14% to 15% EPS growth for fiscal '11 which is pretty outstanding when you consider we had a 3% headwind from litigation gains that we had last year that offsets that and some of the investments we had to make in our IT Infrastructure for maintaining the dual system.
So simply we've had a bigger year.
It makes our starting point for next year higher.
And we continue to look at a solid year in fiscal '12.
So Mike that's what I was driving at.
So last quarter when you said you expected I think you said you expected fiscal '12 to be kind of a normal growth year for AmerisourceBergen now it seems like lower.
But basically as you look out to fiscal '12 nothing's changed on your assumption front related to these oral solid generics that are coming.
It's basically all you're saying is your base year changed.
That's exactly right Glen.
Your next question comes from Steven Valiquette UBS.
On Medco it sounds like everybody should probably assume at a minimum that the existing contract will hold up through March 13 is that correct? There's no change of control type provision on their side where that can potentially end early? Yes we believe that's correct.
That's correct Steve.
Okay.
It's definitely a date-certain contract.
It's not volume-based like a lot of [ph] contracts you had previously is that also...
No that's a good question but it is a date-certain contract.
Your next question comes from Helene Wolk Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
First starting with the pricing environment and/or your pricing expectations.
Can you give us a little bit of a sense for what you're expecting particularly on the specialty generic side that you called out? And then just more generally if you're seeing anything change in the generic environment more generally? What I think manufacturers are deploying different tactics on project patent expirations both in injectables and in oral solids and that impacts us.
So we never know for sure where the ASPs are going to come out.
I think we've shown an ability to manage this very effectively.
But you should note that once more manufacturers enter the price will drop pretty steadily over successive quarters is what we've seen.
Keep in mind Oxaliplatin was a little bit different because there was an [ph] launch and there never more than a handful of manufacturers that came into the space.
So that was a little bit of a unique experience with specialty injectables.
So I hope that answer yours.
Anything else Mike? Yes I'd say on the oral solid side I mean we still see scattered price increases Helene that had a modest impact to the quarter.
From an overall inflation or deflation rate you probably had a little bit of deflation this quarter because you had a couple of big products such as generic Aricept and generic Effexor that had significant drops in price as they've gone through their 6-month exclusivity periods.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then just can you provide an update on what is the current trends in the dialysis business particularly around the ESA question? Well the bundling did have a modest effect.
ESAs in total are less than 3% of our sales approximately.
4%.
About 4%.
So it's -- we've seen a decline year-over-year in about the low double digits 10% to 15% range for the ESA-type products.
And that's both on oncology and the dialysis side by the way.
Your next question comes from George Hill Citigroup.
Just a point of clarification Steve.
Is it your assumption that after March 2013 that the Medco business goes away? No we don't have that assumption at all.
You would expect that we would participate vigorously in whatever happens here we would participate vigorously.
And we think that we've done a great job.
And we would in the successive of the company we would expect to be considered very strongly.
Okay.
And I don't know if you're prepared to think about talk about it but we looked at what's going on in fiscal 2012 with the kind of the loss of the profit contribution of the generic cancer drugs as we go.
That should be offset by the small molecule oral solids that come through and provide the growth that year.
Is it too early to start thinking about fiscal 2013 when you start to see multisource introduction of a lot of those oral solids where we typically see the AWP fall pretty precipitously once the multisources are introduced? And I guess is it too early to talk about the impact of that? And should we see a similar impact there but of greater severity like what we're now seeing on the oncology side? I'd say no George.
I mean I think one thing to keep in mind is our fiscal year is in September.
And when you talk about 2012 a lot of the introductions are actually in the second half of 2012 which will fall very nicely into our fiscal '13.
So we don't expect to see a huge drop at all.
We think it's going to be much more steady than a peak and a decline.
And on the specialty side you actually are going to see I think a couple of new products come through in '13 that you'll see a bounce back there from fiscal '12 as well.
So we expect fiscal '13 to be a very good year from a generic perspective.
And you put that in combination with us finalizing our rollout of our BT program.
We're very excited about our prospects in '13.
And just going back to your original question I think one thing is that this would be a very large enterprise.
And you should contemplate that it's not impossible there would be several suppliers to it.
Your next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
A couple of follow up questions on the specialty side.
So first of all on Taxotere.
I mean is there a scenario where you might see actually better EPS contribution in the September quarter than what you saw in June quarter? I mean when we look at the competitive landscape there is different manufacturer so your supply cost dropped into the September quarter.
And when we looked at the ASPs in July they're almost unchanged from June quarter levels.
Yes Ricky our base assumption is that we had $0.09 from the 2 products.
I don't want to get into breaking out each individual one but $0.09 from generic Taxotere and generic Gemzar in the June quarter.
And we expect that to moderate in the fourth quarter overall to $0.06 or $0.07.
And part of that is the increased -- we think there will be some additional suppliers and some additional competition.
You know ASP is one of the factors.
It's not the only factor affecting our thoughts.
Okay.
And then Steve when you look at the product universe are there any other specialty generics that are not scheduled right that you think may go generic in fiscal year '12 that are not factored into guidance? I mean we've seen that last year.
What are kind of like your expectations into kind of like next year when you just think about contact to [ph] pipeline and the discussions out in the market? No there's really nothing that we're aware of at this stage.
I mean manufacturers could currently [ph] launch on oral solids side and also on the injectable side but it's not something that we contemplate.
And honestly nothing that we are hearing about at all at the moment.
But of course we get Oxaliplatin back in August.
Your last question comes from A.
J.
Rice Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP</strong> Actually hopefully 2 questions here.
First of all can you just give us any thoughts or update if there is anyone on where we are with the bid process for the VA contract? I guess those bids are in but there were certainly some concern in light of the Medco announcement that maybe people would be more aggressive.
Is there any chance that people can change their bids? And then when do you think you might hear on that? And then I guess also could you give us any flavor if you look ahead to fiscal 2012? Is that a year where you characterize there to be a lot of contracts significant contracts up for renewal or sort of less than maybe what we've seen in the last few years? I'll just talk about the VA but no there's no opportunity to reopen it.
We submitted what we probably believe is our best and final bid.
So there should be no opportunity and this news was not contemplated when any of us submitted our bids.
We expect to hear about the contract award -- yes the last time was 2003.
And it was -- the announcement was right around New Year's eve.
So somewhere around that timetable probably in November to February February would be absolutely the latest that we could hear about who the award goes to.
And just remind me of your second question? LLLP</strong> Just thinking in terms of major contracts like VA and otherwise 2012 versus the last few years.
No we don't really have any large contracts coming up in 2012.
And one thing that's -- we only have one account that's more than 5% of our revenues.
And when you contemplate AmerisourceBergen's franchise I think that that's a really key differentiator for us.
And now Steve would like to make a few closing remarks.
Thank you everyone.
We know it's a very busy earnings day.
I saw 66 of the 500 S&amp;P 500 companies are reporting today.
So we very much appreciate you spending time with us.
And we appreciate your attention.
I hope that these excellent results confirm our key themes that we have an outstanding franchise here in AmerisourceBergen.
And we continue to execute very well against our key objectives while planning for our future.
We look forward to discussing our final quarter with you in early November and our final guidance for 2012.
Many thanks.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd like to just highlight a few of our upcoming events.
On September 7 we'll be attending the Robert W.
Baird Conference in New York.
On September 9 we'll be attending the Stifel Nicolaus Conference in Boston.
And on September 13 we'll be attending the Morgan Stanley Conference also in New York.
So thank you very much for joining us today.
For the replay information on today's conference if you would like to access the replay it is (888)568-0124 for the toll-free number.
And for the toll number it's (203)369-3459.
It will be available approximately 2 hours after the conclusion of the call today.
And again thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen 2011 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brad and good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our 2011 fourth quarter and fiscal year end.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Dicandilo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2010.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
I am very pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen delivered very strong performance in the final quarter of our fiscal 2011 bringing to a close a year in which we grew our earnings per share 14% an especially notable achievement given that we delivered 31% growth last year.
In fact I believe that it is appropriate to say that we have delivered exceptional performance over the course of our first decade as AmerisourceBergen.
Since the merger in 2001 we have grown our earnings per share at a compound annual growth rate of 17% improved our balance sheet and credit ratings provided excellent value and innovative services to customers and suppliers and outstanding opportunities to our associates and delivered tremendous value to our shareholders.
As I look ahead into our next decade I believe we are very well-positioned to take advantage of the opportunities in the marketplace and I have no doubt that our best years are still ahead of us.
Mike will give the details on our financials but I want to note some of the operating highlights.
For our fiscal year 2011 our revenues were up 3% our gross profits were up almost 8% and we had record operating income of $1.2 billion.
We increased our operating margin for the sixth consecutive year we generated $1 billion in the free cash flow closed 2 acquisitions and announced and now closed the third increased our dividend twice and more than doubled our share repurchase goals.
We continue to benefit from our 2 primary growth drivers: generics and specialty and we continue to strengthen the programs and services we have in place to support those growth areas.
I commend our associates for once again delivering stellar performance on virtually every metric and for giving us good momentum as we head into our fiscal 2012.
Before I turn to the performance of our individual business units I want to share a few insights about our industry.
AmerisourceBergen is fortunate to be part of an industry that is vibrant growing and resilient in the face of economic challenges.
Our industry delivers tremendous value to both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers alike while safeguarding the pharmaceutical supply channel and increasing the overall efficiency of the healthcare marketplace.
For example a new study recently released by Booz &amp; Company demonstrates that wholesalers take $41.6 billion in costs out of the process of getting drug therapies from the manufacturer to the patient.
Demographics continue to help drive organic growth and while year-over-year sales growth rates across the industry will be moderated due to unprecedented number of brand products converting to generics in 2012 the conversions represent a significant opportunity not only for AmerisourceBergen but also for our customers and of course for patients who would have greater access to lower-cost generic prescription drugs.
As efforts continue to curb the rising cost of healthcare while maintaining a high standard of care few tools are as powerful as generic drugs.
The pricing environment in our industry remains competitive but stable.
Most of the large customer contracts that have changed hands in the last year have done so as a result of an acquisition.
Manufacturers continue to recognize the value distributors bring to the channel and the benefits that fee-for-service has brought to the marketplace.
AmerisourceBergen continues to maintain a presence in Washington in an effort to look after the interest of our customers and shareholders and to participate in discussions regarding health care reform and other initiatives.
As I turn now to the performance of our individual business units I want to reiterate the areas I've been focusing on to drive shareholder value:  first collaborating to drive innovation for providers and manufacturers; second increasing customer and supplier value; third expanding our business in targeted markets; and fourth maximizing operating efficiency through cross-company collaboration.
Lastly our senior management team is focused on continuing to drive the high-performance culture that has historically distinguished ABC.
The outstanding results our associates have delivered in fiscal 2011 are an indication of the focus and creativity they bring to work everyday and that gives me great confidence that we will meet both the new challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Turning now to our business units AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a strong quarter and a strong year particularly noteworthy as that performance was achieved while continuing the implementation of our SAP enterprise level platform.
Drug companies where revenues were up 6% in the quarter with solid performers across also customer segments and strong growth in alternate stocks in particular.
Importantly we have converted 2 distribution centers onto SAP the process is moving forward very smoothly and we will continue to convert our distribution centers to SAP over the course of 2012.
Where the conversions have been completed our customers have responded favorably to Passport the new customer facing order entry system and the new capabilities it provides.
During the September quarter we continue to invest in our Energiz program which as I mentioned last quarter is designed to maximize sales force productivity improve customer compliance and drive efficiency by taking full advantage of our new SAP platform and ensure that we take advantage of the generic conversions in the years ahead.
These efforts have further focused our sales force and we have good momentum going into the New Year.
In our fiscal 2012 we will be making additional investments in our Canadian operations where we have had significant new business wins.
We are very pleased with our leading position in Pharmaceutical Distribution to independent pharmacies and our leading role in Specialty Distribution and related services in the Canadian market.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group had another very strong year with unprecedented performance in specialty generics and solid performance across all specialty businesses.
While contributions from specialty generics will moderate in 2012 we remain very well-positioned to benefit from future specialty product launches.
In September we acquired IntrinsiQ a leading provider of informatics solutions that help community oncologists make treatment decisions for their patients.
IntrinsiQ is now part of Specialty Group's ION Solutions and the combination of IntrinsiQ software applications and ION Solutions' existing oncology technology platform will enhance the company's proprietary data offerings to both physicians and manufacturers.
The addition of IntrinsiQ is indicative of our continued commitment to community oncology and a good example of how we intend to continue to strengthen our market leading offerings in specialty.
During the fourth quarter we combined our consulting and packaging businesses into 1 operating unit called AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services which we believe will expand the opportunities for both businesses particularly since both provide market-leading consultative services to pharmaceutical manufacturers.
The consulting and contract packaging businesses had solid results in the quarter and we have already identified synergy opportunities from within the businesses that should help continue to strengthen their performance going forward.
In addition we have recently made 2 acquisitions to continue to expand our market-leading offerings in Consulting Services beyond specialty products.
Premier Source a small pharmaceutical consulting company that expands our service offerings in the fast-growing areas of molecular diagnostics and emerging biotech and TheraCom which closed today and meaningfully expands our offerings in reimbursement consulting on products that are covered by the pharmacy benefit.
These are additions to the consulting group and the addition of IntrinsiQ to the Specialty Group a combined investment of $300 million strengthen our positions in the markets where we are already a leader with services that clearly differentiate us from our peers and strengthen our relationship with manufacturers and providers.
For example the combination of Lash Group and TheraCom will give us more than 3 000 associates focused on supporting patient access adherence and reimbursement with differentiated capabilities to support products under both the medical and pharmacy benefit.
Given the strength of our balance sheet and our desire to grow our business we continue to look for acquisitions that meet the criteria we've had in place for quite some time.
They should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel they should be within our established core competency and they should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any further contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we continue to be receptive to acquisitions and we continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceutical and Specialty Distribution and services as well as consulting and packaging services.
While we historically have been very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range we would consider selling larger if it made good strategic sense and we would deliver value to our company and our shareholders.
Looking ahead the future looks very bright.
Mike will detail the guidance in more detail.
But the key takeaways in our fiscal 2012: We expect to achieve earnings per share in the range of $2.74 to $2.84 an increase of 8% to 12% over fiscal 2011.
While we have a difficult comparison to overcome in 2012 our long-term EPS growth objective continues to be to grow at 15%.
Looking further ahead to 2013 we should have a carryover from some of the launches that occurred late in our fiscal 2012 including the relaunch of Oxaliplatin and we should begin to benefit from the completion of our SAP implementation.
In fiscal 2014 we should begin to see the 30 million to 40 million uninsured patients enter the healthcare market driving demand for pharmaceuticals that should carryover into 2015 and beyond.
In addition 2014 and 2015 are expected to be good years for generic conversions and of course there's a chance that biosimilars may also come to market in that timeframe.
Finally I am very confident in our business and in our future because demand is strong for the products we distribute and the services we provide.
We play an essential role in the pharmaceutical supply chain.
We've positioned ourselves well to benefit from generic and specialty products and we have continued to invest in opportunities we see in our future.
I believe our focus and our exceptional and innovative associates set us apart in our industry.
As I stated earlier our best days are still ahead of us.
Here is Mike.
Thanks Steve and thank all of you for joining us today.
We had a solid finish to what has been a tremendous year in a series of tremendous years for AmerisourceBergen and we are very pleased with our fiscal 2011 results.
Before I get into the quarterly numbers and my comments on our fiscal 2012 guidance I would like to take a few minutes to review our full year fiscal '11 performance and compare that performance to our original expectations for fiscal '11 which we gave to you last November.
Our revenue growth guidance for fiscal '11 was 2% to 4% and we finished solidly in the middle of that range.
We expanded operating margins by 8 basis points exceeding our original guidance of low to mid-single-digit basis points expansion.
Much of that upside reflects our outstanding performance in the specialty generics area and we overcame significant headwinds from maintaining duplicate IT systems as well as some fourth quarter charges that were not anticipated.
Our free cash flow of $1 billion for the year far exceeded our original guidance for free cash flow of $625 million to $700 million with strong working capital management including a significant year-over-year improvement in the Specialty Group working capital and certain deferred tax benefits providing most of our upside.
The stronger than expected cash generation allowed us the flexibility to upsize our share repurchases to $841 million well above our original $400 million guidance.
We also increased our dividend twice during the year and we strengthened our market leadership in Specialty and Consulting Services through the acquisitions Steve detailed.
In addition we were able to accelerate internal investments in select growth areas which we will continue in fiscal 2012.
All of these factors combined to drive our GAAP diluted earnings per share to $2.54 a 14% increase over our GAAP EPS from fiscal 2010 and we far exceeded our original EPS guidance for fiscal '11 of $2.31 to $2.41.
In addition to our strong results we strengthened our already strong balance sheet during the year and received upgrades from all 3 rating agencies won awards once again for customer service and successfully implemented our new ERP system across our back-office and followed that up with a successful rollout of our new customer facing solution.
Truly a superb all-around year for ABC leaving us well-positioned for future growth and we thank all of our associates who continue to exceed our customer's expectations every day.
Now let's move to our September quarterly results which have a few unusual items that I will detail mostly impacting operating expenses and offset in part by a lower effective tax rate in the quarter.
Starting with our top line revenues of $20.4 billion grew 3.5% in the quarter driven by the drug company which was up over 6% and the Specialty Group was down 5%.
This is the last quarter the Specialty Group top line will be impacted by the prior year discontinuance of a large customer contract in our 3PL business.
The drug company growth was driven by some of its largest customers as well as growth in selected markets.
Gross profit of $618 million once again grew faster than revenue and was driven by strong performance under both our brand and generic manufacturing center programs and specialty generics which together more than offset normal competitive pressures.
Two of our highlighted specialty generic products docetaxel and gemcitabine contributed approximately $0.09 of earnings to the September quarter slightly above our $0.06 to $0.07 expectations.
And for the full year including Oxaliplatin the big 3 specialty products contributed $0.48 of earnings compared to the $0.25 contributed by Oxaliplatin alone in fiscal 2010.
In the fourth quarter we had a very small LIFO credit of less than $100 000 and for the full year our LIFO charge was $35 million compared to $30 million in fiscal 2010.
On a GAAP basis operating expenses were up almost $30 million or 8.6% in the September quarter due to a number of discrete items.
The largest of these items was our $16 million Kee Tam settlement which we announced last week.
In addition we incurred $4.4 million of employee severance related to the drug company's Energiz program.
As Steve mentioned this program encompasses a number of initiatives to maximize sales force productivity improve customer contractual compliance and drive efficiency.
We do not expect any further severance cost related to this program.
We also incurred $3.2 million of deal transaction costs in connection with our acquisitions.
And finally we incurred an intangible asset impairment of $6.5 million in the quarter related to our Imedex Physician Education business.
This small business has been hampered by cutbacks in pharmaceutical supplier support for continuing education programs.
Combined these discrete items represent the entire $30 million operating expense increase in the quarter or approximately $0.07 of earnings.
Going forward we do not expect these items to burden our future expense run rate.
As a result of the $30 million of discrete expense items in the quarter operating income of $244 million was down 2% compared to our prior year fourth quarter which as a reminder was adversely impacted by the write-off of $7 million of software cost and $2.5 million of intangible asset impairments.
Keep in mind that even with these fourth quarter expense items full year fiscal '11 operating income of $1.2 billion increased 9% over fiscal '10 and our operating margin of 150 basis points increased by a significant 8 basis points year-over-year.
This represents our sixth consecutive year of significant operating margin expansion.
Moving below operating income we had a small gain from a recovery on amounts due from a prior asset disposition reflected in other income.
And net interest expense of $19.9 million in the quarter increased 10% over last year due to less capitalized interest from our ERP project as well as reduced interest income.
Our tax rate in the September quarter was 35% down significantly from the 38% rate in last year's fourth quarter.
The effective rate decline in the quarter is primarily due to adjustments made relating to state deferred income taxes resulting in approximately an $8 million or $0.03 benefit to the quarter.
We continue to expect our ongoing effective tax rate to be in the 38.4% range.
Our GAAP diluted EPS in the fourth quarter of $0.54 increased 8% compared to last year's $0.50 and exceeded net income growth due to the net 4% reduction in average outstanding diluted shares primarily due to our ongoing share repurchase programs including substantial repurchases in the September quarter.
Excluding the $0.07 adverse impact of the discrete expense items and the $0.03 benefit from the tax rate adjustment our EPS for the quarter would have been $0.58.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows which were very strong once again in the September quarter.
We generated $360 million of cash from operations in the quarter bringing our full year total to just under $1.2 billion compared to $1.1 billion of cash from operations last year.
Capital expenditures were $40 million in the September quarter and $168 million for the year.
Free cash flow which we defined as cash from operations less CapEx was $1 billion far above our original guidance of $625 million to $700 million.
The increase over our original expectation was due to a significant reduction in working capital at our Specialty Group and a more than $100 million increase in deferred taxes with a large portion of that increase due to bonus depreciation related to our Business Transformation spend.
Keep in mind as I have often mentioned with $300 million of sales per business day our working capital can be very volatile and timing at quarter or year end can have a big impact in our periodic cash flow results.
From a working capital management perspective average inventory days on hand during fiscal '11 were 25 consistent with fiscal '10.
Average days sales outstanding is 17 were also similar to last year as were days payable outstanding.
Our gross debt to total debt and capital ratio at the end of September was 32% in line with our target range of 30% to 35%.
We bought back $440 million of our shares during the quarter and $841 million of our shares for the full year.
This amount far exceeds our revised guidance of $598 million for the year and is consistent with our philosophy of upsizing returns to shareholders if we have not otherwise deployed our capital and market conditions permit.
We also spent $45 million on our 2 completed acquisitions in fiscal '11 and today completed our $250 million TheraCom acquisition.
Our cash balance of $1.8 billion at the end of September continues to leave us with great financial flexibility as we move forward.
Now let's turn to guidance for the coming year.
Our fiscal 2012 guidance per diluted earnings per share is a range of $2.74 to $2.84 an increase of 8% to 12% over fiscal 2011 EPS of $2.54.
The assumptions behind this guidance include flat to moderate revenue growth operating margin expansion in the high single-digit to low double-digit basis points range and free cash flow in the $700 million to $800 million range which is in line with our long term goal of free cash flow approximating net income.
Our guidance assumes share repurchases of approximately $400 million depending of course on market conditions.
It also assumes that the TheraCom acquisition will be financed with long-term debt.
As a result of the anticipated debt offering and less capitalized interest in fiscal '12 net interest expense could be as much as 20% higher than in fiscal '11.
In addition as mentioned earlier we expect our effective income tax rate to be in the 38.4% range.
Capital expenditures should decline to the $150 million range with less ERP spend but more capital focused on our Canadian and New York City expansions.
Our EPS guidance is higher than the early look we gave last quarter primarily due to the benefit from our incremental share repurchases above expectations in the September 2011 quarter.
Now let me drill down on our revenue and margin assumptions.
We expect the drug company revenue to be flat to down slightly from fiscal '11 reflecting very modest market growth due to the large number of branded generic conversions expected in fiscal '12 and the headwind from the Longs CVS contract which concluded in September of 2011.
On the specialty side we expect growth to be in the 5% range as we have now anniversaried the 3PL customer loss.
Importantly we expect high single-digit to low double-digit basis point operating margin expansion in fiscal '12 largely driven by the more than 30 generic launches expected in the drug company which will provide a substantial offset to the $0.33 to $0.34 headwind we have from the expected year-over-year decline from the big 3 specialty generics in 2012.
A good way to think about the operating margin expansion is that new oral solid generic launches in '12 will largely offset the specialty generic headwinds with the EBIT growth coming from increases in customer generic compliance in the drug company solid growth in the Specialty Group excluding the generic impact and significant growth in our smallest segment AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services where we have the benefit of acquisitions on top of expected double-digit organic growth.
The consulting group is expected to contribute more than 5% of our operating income in fiscal '12.
The operating margin expansion expected in fiscal '12 should be driven by gross margin expansion.
Operating expenses are expected to grow in the 3% range largely due to our 3 acquisitions.
As a reminder we do not give quarterly guidance but I will say that directionally our toughest comparisons to fiscal '11 will be in the second and third quarters which had the greatest benefit from specialty generics last year and the fourth quarter should be a very strong quarter as we have very favorable expense comparisons.
In conclusion I know that our prepared comments today were longer than usual due to all of the moving parts.
So thanks for your attention.
And let me finish by reiterating that we had a solid quarter an excellent year in a series of excellent years and have provided strong guidance for fiscal '12.
The future continues to look very bright for AmerisourceBergen.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Brad please go ahead with the questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Yes just want to start on Lipitor.
It looks like Watson was up this morning saying they believe Pfizer could actually retain up to as much as 40% market share with the brand in the first 180 days.
I'm assuming -- and maybe you can weigh in on this that a lot of that would be mail.
So obviously not affecting the retail channel.
But I was just curious if maybe you could share with us a little bit around your assumptions regarding the Lipitor launch and where you see the brand playing out with that generic launch? Bob thank you very much.
That's -- it's a good question.
We certainly -- we do -- we think your assumption is correct that this will primarily affect the mail channel.
And as a reminder we do not sell generics to our larger -- our largest PBM customer.
But we don't comment on specific products.
There'll be over 30 generic launches next year in our fiscal year and yes Lipitor is obviously the most prominent 1 from an overall pharmaceutical market segment.
But not -- maybe perhaps overstated the significance to AmerisourceBergen in particular.
Mark any comments? No our base assumption Bob continues to be that there'll be 2 generics out at the end of November and then will continue to be a successful launch for us.
But again either minor delays or a modest upside is not going to have a big impact on AmerisourceBergen's '12 results.
Correct the generic efficiency rate which we call the generic conversion rate will probably be more moderate for this product than it has traditionally been for other launch branded conversions.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then just on generic price deflation obviously it's been a little bit of a tailwind this past year.
I know you mentioned it being competitive but consistent currently.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about what you're factoring in around generic price deflation in the new guidance? Yes Bob certainly there's been really generic price inflation particularly on the mature products in the marketplace and that's provided us somewhat of a benefit this year.
I would characterize that as about 2% of our overall gross profit.
And I think as we look to next year we would expect a similar benefit.
Certainly the overall deflation rate is also impacted by generics after their 6 month exclusivity period is over as what happened this quarter with a couple of the prominent launches going off exclusivity in the June quarter which affected the overall growth rates in this quarter and obviously there's going to be some of that impact next year as well.
Research Division</strong> Great and then just one last one I'm not expecting there's an update here but just curious maybe when there would be -- what's your expectation around having better visibility into the Medco Express merger and the related fallout or the potential fallout from that merger? We really have no further insights.
Our focus continues to be on doing a great job on servicing Medco everyday which we've done for many many years and that's really all we can control.
So we focus on what we can control and we’re hopeful that we'll carry on now giving the high level of service that Medco has come to expect from us.
So that's really all we can do everyday Bob.
Keep in mind Bob our contract goes through to March of '13 so it's really not impacting our fiscal '12 guidance at all.
And our next question will come from Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the special additions especially TheraCom.
It's been a nice growth company for a number of years.
Really my question surrounds your differentiation and specialty.
This business continues to be a real important a very important driver for you.
You clearly have big scale in parts of that market.
So I wanted to get you to reflect how should we think of some of the current DC discussion potential reimbursement changes off of ASP? And then how do we think about visibility of margins with the reintroduction of Oxaliplatin in August of '12 given certain product categories where we've seen an increased presence of other distribution competitors? So and how do we think about of visibility there? Well thank you Larry great question as usual.
I think I've got all of your different parts here.
Let me point out through the market if I leave anything out that was pretty good multitasking there Larry.
We do have a tremendous guy in our Specialty Group.
And of course what distinguishes us is really the distribution business.
And then if you add in the capabilities of AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services we really believe we have a truly unique platform.
And what I think we can start saying is well is making a few relatively small acquisitions in Canada.
We've been able to extend that leadership into the Canadian market.
We've done very well there.
DC the question CEOs often get “what keeps you up awake at night?” And that's how we spent a lot of time in DC.
We have full-time representation there.
We want to be at the table discussing these issues.
I think we're perceived to be a very honest broker for our customers honest representation of their plight but the significant austerity measures being thought about and we want to help our customers advocate for fair reimbursement.
ASP is one that we've been watching for many many years.
The reason we got involved in Washington was because of ASP and the fact that MMA they really did not include some of our fees in their calculation.
And we were able to get some of that corrected as you know.
So again ASP we're not billing Medicare Part D we don't get directly affected by ASP but it's important to us that the community oncology channel and any physicians that dispense injectable drugs have fair and adequate reimbursement and that's really what we're advocating for.
The margins in specialty of course there's been some very good trends for us which you've noted in some of your writings and which we've talked about in 2010 and '11.
Oxi we expect to come back in 2000 -- in August of 2012.
It's not going to be an at-risk launch.
So there will be differences to what has occurred in the past few years.
I will not going to be able to buy several hundred million dollars of inventory.
There would be no business purpose for us to do that.
So that's going to be very different but I think I've got all your questions and I see Mike's -- have got all Larry's questions right? Yes I think you hear well.
Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up Steve it seems like you're also suggesting that under the right circumstances you'd be willing to be a bit more assertive in looking at acquisitions.
Do you think about doing your business over the next several years? Is that the right way to frame what you said and do you think that the environment is such that you are going to be able to fully -- successfully use the strength of your balance sheet to expand through additional acquisitions of some size? Larry I think we've really been when Dave was here is what we've been active in overseas markets we serve on the International Wholesaler Federation.
Our Board which I've taken over it's very interesting.
We're mindful of trends.
I mean we just -- we recognize all the great virtues of the market that we have here in the U.S.
I think it's very likely that at some stage like some of our competitors but for our own reasons we would go into overseas markets.
And specialty services an area of course that we've demonstrated tremendous strength in the U.S.
and now in Canada.
So that could be a venue for us.
And we obviously are over the size that we can look at those sort of opportunities.
But they have to meet our criteria.
And biggest criteria is long term shareholder growth and return on invested capital.
And our next question comes from Eric Coldwell with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get some clarification on the acquisitions and where their placement will be in the model.
Am I right to assume that the IntrinsiQ is in Specialty Group Premier Source in Consulting Group? And TheraCom might that be split across those 2 segments? Can you help us with TheraCom? TheraCom will be in the Consulting Group as well Eric and your first 2 were correct.
Research Division</strong> So all of TheraCom is in consulting but does it not also have a large distribution program? It does.
It's a very specialized distribution that is tied in very closely to the programs that we offer to the manufacturers.
So we think it's beneficial to keep those 2 together in that group.
Research Division</strong> TheraCom came with a $50 million tax benefit yet you're calling firm tax at the consistent 38.4%.
Is -- technically is the TheraCom tax carry forward is that related specifically to that unit? Is there no way to structure it work it benefit the division or the firm overall? Yes I mean there are losses Eric that we'll [indiscernible] over a pretty long period of time.
So the benefit in any 1 year is not going to have a significant amount on our rate.
But as we get income from that acquisition over time we'll be able to combine that with ABC and take advantage of some of those deductions.
As you know there are some restrictions on how much you can benefit each year.
But over time we think we'll get that entire $50 million benefit that we've laid out.
Will now come from Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I could.
First Mike just wondering about how you view the impact of generics on working capital.
You mentioned earlier a sort of free cash flow similar to net income.
Do you expect that you can see some boost over time as there are more generics in the market? Yes Tom I certainly do think we can and I think we have right.
I think over time we have benefited a bit from the increase in generics.
Keep in mind the dollars of generics are still relatively small to the overall spend and the dollars of the brand name products really still do dominate our working capital.
But I think it continues to be a positive trend for us.
I think we're very happy with the way we managed our working capital this year which I think presented us a great upside in our fiscal '11 cash flow results.
I mentioned some of that's from taxes some of that's from specialty.
But that working capital management has been very prominent in our thinking and is why we continue to expect in the future that our free cash flow is going to approximate our net income and give us lots of cash to deploy in a number of different areas.
Research Division</strong> And then just kind of see a big effort for the [indiscernible] Steve maybe it was in your prepared remarks you mentioned that where the SAP system has gone into place there have been some good feedback from customers.
Can you just give us a little bit more maybe a feel on the streets sort of perspective on the types of things that maybe the customers can see or do now that they couldn't do before? Yes.
It's -- thanks Tom I appreciate you bringing that up.
We're very proud about how well this has gone.
We started out fiscal year '11 really doing the back office implementation and now have done a couple of DCs and each 1 is getting progressively easier.
The customers that have started using our Passport system really like I think much more updated interface that they have the fact that they get realtime information informatics has been enhanced.
And it's just a more up-to-date system and it's totally integrated with all the ABC functionalities.
So I think we're just getting very very good feedback.
It's been a huge project for ABC and it's just very good to see it going so well and the customers are appreciating all the hard work and planning that has gone into this enormous effort.
And our next question comes from Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes Steve if I could maybe just ask a follow-up question regarding the acquisitions.
It seems like this quarter you spent roughly around $300 million in acquisitions and it kind of sounds like you're comfortable potentially even doing bigger acquisitions and potentially even comfortable doing something into the international arena.
When I kind of compare that to your predecessor he -- Dave Yost probably didn't spend $1 billion in the previous 10 years on acquisitions.
And so it feels like a little bit of a trend change for the company.
I'm just kind of curious could you kind of give us a little bit of a better sense for maybe the areas that are of a locust to you both domestically and internationally? Glen thank you.
ABC's long-term growth strategy has really always contemplated doing acquisitions that add value to our business meet our criteria.
It's -- we've made actually over 20 acquisitions and some merger.
I served on the executive management committee I was on the steering committee for the merger and already discussed almost every opportunity with Dave and Mike in particular.
So it may seem that we're being more aggressive but just actually there've been opportunities that have met our criteria and that we've been able to take advantage of particularly in the last couple of months.
And that really makes sense for our business.
I think that just having closed TheraCom today we look at the universe of competitors that are available and we've identified TheraCom but never ever thought it would be for sale because it was captive within a very large public company.
And just great synergy and benefit that this came up for sale.
In international arena I think my comments are that we're very pleased with how well we've progressed in Canada buying 2 relatively small companies putting them together giving them the great benefits of being linked up to ABC and our capabilities and making very significant investments up there which have now resulted in us having a very strong leadership position not only in the States but now in Canada.
So that I think is a good illustrative example of where ABC can add value.
Research Division</strong> Okay maybe if I can just ask 1 quick follow-up question on Lipitor.
It seems like clearly in your base case assumption are a 2 player market assuming Ranbaxy launches by the end of the month.
But am I correct to assume that if they don't launch by the end of this month that maybe your assumptions will have to change? I mean could that be a material event if we don't see Ranbaxy in the market on time? Yes Glen this is Mike.
I think as I mentioned earlier I don't think it will be a material event.
We expect to be out in the market regardless.
I think if they don't come out possibly the pricing is a little bit higher in the marketplace and there's a little bit of an advantage to us.
But like I said whether there's a slight upside or slight downside to that particular launch it's 1 of over 30 launches that we have and I don't think a significant delay is going to have a big impact on our numbers in fiscal '12.
It'll come from Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow up questions.
Steve I think in your prepared remarks you talked about buildout in the New York market.
Can you maybe just talk about where you're taking some of that market share from and where do you see some of the opportunities? Thanks Lisa that's an easier question than you asked me in January.
But we've identified the New York market as the premier independent market.
Obviously it's close to where we are.
So probably gets the people are running at this region they're getting a disproportionate amount of attention from senior management.
But with the acquisition of Kinray we definitely have had an uptick in interest there.
The market's really shown an interest in looking at different options.
And we've been very active and we've had above market growth there.
And we've invested further in the market by updating our Amityville facility.
So this is a market that's always had great interest in us and we bought Bellco a couple of years ago and that's going well for us and we'll continue to invest in that marketplace and really hope to continue to gain market share.
Research Division</strong> And then just like my second follow-up question it's just around generics.
As we think about 2012 can you remind us what your generic conversion rate is of existing customers? I know that by not having some of the national chains you don't lose the branded but how should we be thinking about that? Is it in the high nineties? Is it -- what's the rate of conversion when we think about the generic market? I think the industry has said that it's in the low nineties and that rate keeps on going up.
But I think it's very difficult for us to identify that for our customers.
Mike? I think the great thing Lisa as you pointed out in our customer base is that other than the large -- our large PDM customer all of our customers buy generics from us and particularly in the retail space we've got a very very high penetration rate with our ProGenerics offering and we continue for that to -- we expect that to continue going forward.
As you know we've made inroads in the -- with oral solids in the hospital area.
We're getting a large majority of that spend as we always have and I think the opportunity area for us continues to be in the alternate site segment which again is a very varied segment.
It includes things such as Long-Term Care pharmacies.
And in that area we've been really focusing our efforts and have been really expanding our market share.
And that's been our fastest growing space.
So I think we're solid all around and I think we'll capture a large share of the generic conversions with our customer base.
Research Division</strong> Just as a clarity in the past if I remember correctly didn't you talk about maybe the 85% rate of conversion of branded drug where they buy generic from AmerisourceBergen is that the right number or...
Well above 80% for our retail sector I think is the comment we've made historically.
And we continue to push that up and we continue as both Steve and I mentioned in our comments focusing on generic compliance with our customers.
I think we have been successful.
Our generic growth rates have exceeded the market rates for the last couple of years and we expect to do that again in fiscal '12.
Yes it's a number of -- one of the number 1 metrics that we look at every day and it's a big part of our Energiz program.
And we're very very attuned to this and we expect our customers to live up to their contract requirements and that what we incent our sales force on et cetera.
That comes from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On the oncology business obviously your 2 big competitors have made acquisitions and they're talking a little bit about taking up some share.
Do you have any look into your oncology market share and if you've had any -- have you've seen any customer attrition that would be notable? Hi John.
There are some changes in the market with Cardinal coming in.
I mean they announced 2 customer acquisitions.
But we actually have many of the large independent oncology practices in the country and nothing has changed in terms of what we perceive our market share to be.
Everything has been pretty much according to plan in terms of our sales performance.
And again we're very confident of our offering.
I think an acquisition like IntrinsiQ really cements an already solid position adds to the innovation brings us closer to our customers and again provides unique solutions and insight to the manufacturers.
So it's not like as a market leader here with no greater than 50% share in this very attractive market that we're just resting on our laurels.
We sort of living by the old Andy Grove motto only the paranoid survive.
And we are absolutely focused on this market.
We carry on investing in it.
It's obviously a very personal passion of mine.
I know so many of our customers there and you'll see AmerisourceBergen continue to have a very strong presence in oncology and the other specialty physician markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and just a question for Mike looking at the contribution of Gemzar and Taxotere I think McKesson called out that their contribution would drop sequentially.
Can you provide any kind of quantification as to the -- what the September quarter looks like compared to the December quarter for those 2 imported drugs? I think that's a right assumption John.
I really don't want to get into each quarter of '12.
But certainly I think the early part of the year will be more attractive than the later part of the year.
As I mentioned those 2 products contributed about $0.09 in the September quarter and for the full year including the relaunch of Oxaliplatin in August of '12 we're expecting about $0.14 to $0.15 contributions from those 3 big generics in fiscal '12.
And again more front weighted.
And our next question comes from David Larsen with Leerink Swann LLC.
Research Division</strong> Does the Express Scripts cardinal contract come up for bid mid-next year and if so are you guys going to bid on it? We don't comment on individual RFPs especially ahead of them.
And we have not received any notifications.
So probably -- but if any large contract came up that there was an RFP for we certainly think we have the capabilities to -- and have demonstrated capabilities to perform under those contracts and we would certainly take a look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the revenue came in like a bit higher than I was looking for.
Was there anything in particular going on there that was favorable in the quarter? As we mentioned another drug company was up over 6% in the quarter and some of that driven by our larger customers and our diverse customer base but really some widespread growth.
Steve mentioned a couple of areas Canada and New York that are growing very strong particularly in the independent space and a lot of our larger customers are in the -- and what we refer to as the alternate care or site space.
And those customers grew well.
That was our fastest growth area.
That comes from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just as a reminder I might have missed it.
What was your generic growth rate this quarter? We were in the 7% range Ricky.
Research Division</strong> Okay and what do you think the market was? I think it was slightly below that.
Obviously this was a quarter as I mentioned earlier where a couple of the big launches during the year finished exclusivity back in June and there were no big launches.
So I think overall this has been the slowest quarter of market growth during our fiscal '11.
Research Division</strong> And with all the Generics that are taking in for next year what are the -- your assumption for generic growth rate for fiscal year '12? It could be very substantial growth rate with all of the new products.
I mean in particularly in our program we can have growth rates in excess of 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think you mentioned that the consulting group is expected to contribute about 5% of operating income in fiscal year '12.
What percent of operating income did it represent in fiscal year '11? It was about 3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just when I think about your fiscal year '12 top line guidance and obviously you're expecting pretty robust top line growth given the product mix so can you just clarify for us what percent of your top line growth assumptions are from acquisition versus same-store? Our acquisition rates -- growth rates will be in the $600 million to $700 million range.
That's -- some of that sales obviously from TheraCom have been recorded to us in particular.
So we're not 100% sure of exactly how much was through us and how that could be affected by inter-company eliminations.
But these are not very big top line businesses but significant from a growth line -- growth perspective.
So that's sort of the range that we would expect.
TheraCom does some specialized products which are very much related to the programs that they do on the reimbursement side.
So we are going to count for them in the Consulting Services division.
And that will come from George Hill with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Steve or Mike I don't know if you guys can boil it down to 1 number but branded drug price increases were pretty strong in fiscal 2011.
Do you guys have a number that your assumption for will be branded drug price increases in 2012? George you're correct.
I mean the branded price inflation was very strong in 2011.
I think obviously impacted by the large number of anticipated patent expirations and the activity around those drugs and where we had seen price inflation on brand in excess of 8% the prior 2 years we ended up the year well above 9%.
And as we look to 2012 we expect to have to moderate some just because there's a number of those price increases related to products that are going to be off patent in fiscal '12.
So we would expect a brand inflation rate in the 7% to 8% range in '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then maybe just a quick follow up.
You guys spoke a lot about Canada.
Maybe as we come to the end of the fiscal year could you size that business for us and then maybe tell us anecdotally expectations for '12? Yes we -- I think that was some contract wins we expect to actually be a solid #2 in the market still quite a bit behind the #1 but we're about $2 billion and we've had a very big customer win with a large independent co-op that we'll be implementing next year and we'll probably talk about it as we -- in the next couple of quarters as we get into implementation.
But it's a significant customer win for us given that it's at such a smaller market in the space.
Thanks George and thank everyone for the questions.
And now Steve would like to make some final closing remarks.
Now thank you everyone.
That concludes our call for this morning.
As we have now officially ended fiscal year 2011 I would like on a personal basis to thank our associates our customers our suppliers and my -- really my lead team for their support in my transition during this year.
I trust that our presentation this morning will convince all of you that the pharmaceutical supply chain and services the markets that ABC serves is a great place to be and invest in.
Thank you for your attention.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd like to highlight some of our upcoming events.
On November 15 we'll be attending the Lazard Healthcare conference in New York.
On December 14 we'll be holding our Annual Investor Day also in New York.
On January 5 we'll be attending the Goldman Sachs CEOs Unplugged conference in New York and finally on January 10 we'll be attending the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco.
Thank you all very much for joining us today.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 1:00 today running through Tuesday November 8 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback service at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 219658.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the AmerisourceBergen first quarter earnings.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our fiscal 2012 first quarter results.
I'm Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Mike Dicandilo Executive Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2011.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by phone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen delivered solid results in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2012.
Our revenues were up 2% to $20.4 billion.
Earnings per share were up 9% to $0.62.
We generated $432 million in operating cash flow and we repurchased $128 million of our shares.
Our financial results were in line with our expectations and position us well to meet our objectives for the remainder of the year.
Our excellent cash generation and strong balance sheet provide us with outstanding financial flexibility and give us the ability to fund our strategic initiatives and grow our business.
AmerisourceBergen is fortunate to be an important part of a growing industry.
As I discussed at our Investor Day in December demographics in the expansion of health care coverage should drive organic growth in our industry over the next several years.
In addition launches of new pharmaceuticals as well as new indications for existing drugs should also drive sales growth.
The tremendous wave of over 30 brand to generic drug conversions that we expect in our fiscal 2012 as well as additional conversions expected in subsequent years will mitigate the top line dollar growth in our industry.
It will drive tremendous value for wholesalers healthcare providers and patients alike.
These trends bode well for AmerisourceBergen in particular.
Our diverse revenue base positions us well to benefit from organic growth driven by demographics as well as from the influx of the uninsured over the next few years.
Our customer mix also puts us in a favorable position to benefit from the historic influx of generics.
In addition cost-containment efforts underway by the federal government and other payers drive demand for our services most notably in our Consulting Services group.
Today we are more entrenched than ever before with our manufacture customers and we expect that to continue to increase.
As our provider customers face reimbursement and other challenges they increasingly turn to AmerisourceBergen for help in making their healthcare practices run as efficiently as possible without sacrificing excellent patient care.
Over the last several months a few large contracts in our industry have been the subject of much dialogue for various different reasons.
Overall however the market continues to be competitive but stable.
We continue to participate in discussions that are important to our business our industry and our customers in Washington D.C.
educating lawmakers about our business and the value we and our customers provide to the healthcare system.
I've discussed our core tenets several times over the last year but they continue to drive our efforts and that bears repeating.
Firstly collaborate to drive innovation for all stakeholders increasing customer and supplier value expanding our business in targeted markets maximizing operating efficiency and maintain a high-performance culture.
Our associates creatively tackle challenges and identify new opportunities to add value on a daily basis.
They'll focus on meeting our objectives for the year both in terms of the service we provide to customers and suppliers and in our financial performance and I'm honored to work beside them.
Turning now to our business units.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had solid revenue growth in the quarter up 2%.
We had positive revenue growth in both retail and institutional segments even with the previously-discussed loss of a large retail -- retail customer in September of 2011.
Our ultimate side segment was particularly strong in the quarter and hospitals and independents had very solid growth.
We now have over 4 600 members in our Good Neighbor Pharmacy network which makes it the third largest network of pharmacies in the U.S.
That is a powerful endorsement of the role that independent retail pharmacy plays in the complex healthcare landscape today.
Patients preferred choice when determining where to fill their prescriptions and our retail customers are very adept at fulfilling unique patient needs.
Our SAP implementation continues to run smoothly with redistributions and our conversions complete and the remainder plans for the beginning of 2013.
Our investments in our Canadian operations to support significant new business wins are also well underway.
We are very pleased to be the leading distributor independent pharmacy in the Canadian market as well as the leader in Specialty Distribution and services.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group had another strong quarter with revenues up 4% with particularly strong performance in third-party logistics and good performance in Oncology Supply.
The integration of IntrinsiQ has gone very well and our customers have responded favorably to the tools at office.
While our Specialty Group is based after our oncology franchise we are an instrumental part of the commercialization strategy for any infusible product launched in the physician marketplace.
In addition our Specialty Group often collaborates with our Consulting Services group to help ensure patients have access to products by utilizing the full capabilities of our physician networks as well as our reimbursement and patient support program expertise.
For example during the quarter we executed very well on the launch of a new brand of ophthalmology product establishing significant market share in just the first few months of introduction.
This is a great example not only of excellent cross-company collaboration but also of the strength and tremendous value of our diverse offerings.
AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services delivered a strong quarter while making excellent progress in the integration of TheraCom and Premier Source.
Our Consulting and Packaging business both performed well in the quarter.
And while the group only represents about 1% of our revenues we believe our packaging and consulting associates are providing essential expertise to pharmaceutical manufacturers to help ensure that their products are brought to market as safely quickly and efficiently as possible.
In addition our reimbursement expertise helps ensure that patients who can benefit from both new and mature therapies have access to the products.
Given the continued strength of our balance sheet we continue to look for acquisitions that meet the criteria we've had in place for quite some time.
They should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel.
They should be within our established core competency and they should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any further contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we continue to be receptive to acquisitions and we continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceutical and Specialty Distribution and Services as well as Consulting and Packaging services.
While we historically have been very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range we would consider selling larger if it made good strategic sense and would deliver value to our company and our shareholders.
Looking ahead the results we've had in our first quarter have positioned us well to meet our objectives for the full fiscal year.
We have a difficult comparison to overcome in 2012 but we continue to expect earnings per share to be in the range of $2.74 to $2.84 an increase of 8% to 12% over fiscal 2011.
Looking further ahead to 2013 we should have a carryover from some of the launches that occur late in our fiscal 2012 including the relaunch of Oxaliplatin and we should begin to benefit from the completion of our SAP implementation.
In fiscal 2014 we should begin to see the 30 million to 40 million uninsured patients in the healthcare market driving demand for pharmaceuticals that should carry over into 2015 and beyond.
In addition 2014 and 2015 are expected to be good years with generic conversions and of course there's a chance that biosimilars may also come to market in that timeframe.
Before I turn it over to Mike for a detailed look at the financials I want to reiterate the confidence that I have in our business and our future because demand is strong for the products we distribute and the services we provide.
We were pleased to be recently be ranked 24th on Bloomberg Businessweek's list of the top 50 performing companies in the U.S.
in recognition of our historic financial performance and our future growth opportunities.
As I stated earlier we play an essential role in the pharmaceutical supply channel we positioned ourselves well to benefit from generics and specialty products and we have continued to invest in our existing businesses and opportunities we see in our future.
Finally our exceptional associates at ABC set us apart in our industry and I'm proud to be their leader.
Here is Mike.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report first quarter fiscal 2012 results on track with our internal plans highlighted by good performance on new generic launches strong expense discipline significant progress towards integrating TheraCom into our consulting group and exceptional cash generation all of which gives us confidence in reaffirming our annual EPS guidance.
As we go through our quarterly results keep in mind that last year's first quarter included a $12 million or $0.03 benefit reflected in gross profit from the Duane Reade contract termination last December.
So let's turn to the quarter and starting with the top line revenues were $20.4 billion a 2.4% increase over last year's quarter.
Drug company revenue was up 2% as strong growth in the alternate site hospital and independent customer groups offset the expected decline on the chain side as this is our first quarter without the Longs/CVS contract.
The Specialty Group revenues increased 4% with our 3PL business especially strong this quarter.
The Consulting group though small to the overall company top line had a very strong quarter in our acquisitions with TheraCom being the biggest contributor added about 0.6% to overall ABC revenue growth in the quarter.
Gross profit was $593 million in the quarter up 2% from last December and gross margins of 291 basis points in the quarter were down 1 basis point from last year.
As I mentioned earlier the prior year quarter included a $12 million benefit related to the completion of the Duane Reade contract and the contribution to current quarter gross profit from our acquired companies helped to offset this headwind.
Performance from new generic launches were in line with our expectations as were benefits from price appreciation.
We gave an early update during our Investor Day in December on trends with generic Lipitor scripts.
And since then trends have normalized very much in line with our expectation of approximately a 70% conversion rate to the generic.
Specialty generic trends were also in line with our expectations.
Our LIFO charge in the quarter was $3.2 million compared to $9.9 million last year reflecting the brand to generic conversions and we continue to expect a full year charge of approximately $15 million.
We did a very nice job managing our operating expenses this quarter despite our acquisition-related transaction costs and the inclusion of our acquired companies' ongoing operating costs including 2 months of TheraCom's results.
Operating expenses were $308 million up 1.6% and included $3.6 million of acquisition-related transaction costs.
Operating expenses in the quarter would have been down year-over-year x the impact of our acquisitions fueled by a year-over-year decline in compensation costs including favorable benefit comparisons.
Keep in mind that our operating expenses are usually at their lowest level in our first quarter and should increase sequentially as we progress throughout the year.
Our guidance continues to include an annual expense increase of about 3% related primarily to our acquisitions.
Operating income of $285 million in the quarter increased 3% and operating margins expanded by 1 basis point compared to last December.
Again this year-over-year growth was slowed by the $3.6 million of acquisition costs in the current quarter and the previously-mentioned $12 million gross profit benefit realized in the first quarter of fiscal '11.
Moving below the operating income line interest expense of $23 million in the December quarter increased 18% compared to last year primarily as a result of our $500 million 3.5% bonds that we issued in mid-November.
Proceeds from this debt offering helped to fund our acquisitions and will also contribute to the retirement of our 2012 bonds that mature in mid-September.
As a result our expected interest rate expense will continue to trend higher than last year for the rest of fiscal '12.
Our effective income tax rate of 38.2% was slightly higher than last year's 38.1% and slightly below our expected annualized rate of approximately 38.4%.
Our diluted earnings per share of $0.62 was up $0.05 or 9% compared to last year and exceeded our net income growth due to the reduction in our average diluted shares related to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 263.1 million down over 6% from last December.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows where trends continue to be very favorable.
We generated $432 million of cash from operations in the quarter compared to using $99 million of cash in last year's first quarter.
Much of that increase came from very favorable working capital at quarter end particularly in the timing of our payments to vendors.
As I have discussed often with our daily volume exceeding $300 million per business day our quarter end working capital snapshots are subject to great volatility and one should be careful not to extrapolate the first quarter's results to the full year cash flow forecast.
Capital expenditures were $48 million in the quarter compared to $50 million last year and as we mentioned in December included significant investments to expand our infrastructure in Canada as well as some discretionary buyouts on leased equipment offset in part by declining ERP spend.
We continue to expect the capital spend for the year in the $150 million range.
We bought back $128 million of our shares during the quarter and we also closed our $250 million TheraCom acquisition.
With our strong free cash flow performance in the quarter we continue to be comfortable with our estimate of free cash flow in a range of $700 million to $800 million for all of fiscal '12.
We had our normal seasonal increase in inventory in December.
But despite the higher-ending balance our average day sales in inventory for the quarter remained at 25 consistent with fiscal '11.
Average DSOs of 17.7 in the December quarter were up slightly from 17.4 days last year and the favorable payables timing helped raise average quarterly DPOs by over 2 days compared to fiscal '11.
With our recent debt offering our gross debt to total debt in capital ratio at the end of December was 39.9% above our target range of 30% to 35% and will remain above the range in the next couple of quarters until we pay off our $392 million of debt which matures in September.
Our cash balance of just under $2.4 billion at the end of December leaves us with great financial flexibility to fund our strategic initiatives return significant amounts of capital to our shareholders and pay off our maturing debt.
Now let's turn to fiscal '12 guidance.
And with our first quarter on track our outlook is unchanged.
Our diluted EPS guidance remains at a range of $2.74 to $2.84.
Our assumptions behind this guidance also remain the same and include flat-to-modest revenue growth operating margin expansion in the high single-digit to low double-digit basis point range and free cash flow in the $700 million to $800 million range.
Additionally we continue to expect to spend approximately $400 million for share repurchases.
So before I turn it back to Barbara let me reiterate that 3 months into the year we are performing well in our key areas of the business.
And despite some tough comparisons ahead in the next couple of quarters we are well-positioned to meet our financial targets for all of fiscal '12.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mike.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Cara.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci.
Research Division</strong> Steve I think you touched on in your prepared remarks briefly but I was wondering if you could sort of expand a little bit.
The competitive landscape obviously has got a lot of attention in the investment community lately whether it's because of the VA or the impact of the various M&amp;A activity out there potentially.
What are you expecting in terms of contract churn over the next year? Similar to the last year? If it's higher is it because of certain unique reasons? Or do you see sort of the potential for more churn out there because of other types of reasons and maybe decisions that specific customers may be making? I think that these are really 2 or 3 really isolated events.
I mean the VA comes up every 8 years.
It's not a surprise to anyone that it comes up in this particular time frame.
And obviously we've gone to great lengths to point out that the industry is a lot different than it was in 2003.
And we bid that as you would expect us to bid a large contract.
And then of course there's been a couple of big M&amp;A deals which one in particular was not at all expected but we expect to participate in that.
Our focus has been on servicing the companies that we do service to the best of our abilities.
And I think we do a great job for them.
And we expect that will be a part of any discussion going forward with those businesses.
So just to sum it up the competitive environment remains very similar to how it's been in the past.
And we don't have a particular large amount of contracts coming up in the next couple of quarters.
I mean Mike anything to add? No Steve.
I think you said it well.
The atmosphere is always competitive but stable as you mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then now just on the follow up there maybe a smaller topic but there's been some activity around generic Lovenox today.
Just curious if you could frame that drug for us and the potential impact roughly speaking if there were more supply on the market.
Well Tom generic Lovenox we have done very well with that.
It's part of our pro-generics offering and we already have had expectations that there would be competition in the marketplace.
And that's built into our expectations.
The next question comes the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
L.P.</strong> Just trying to get a better sense of some of the individual impacts in the quarter.
First I guess in the acquisition side aside from the announced severance costs was there an impact on operating expenses from the acquisitions in the quarter? And then I guess along those lines if you could give us some color around how Lipitor and Zyprexa contributions ultimately shaped up relative to your expectations? Well let me -- I'll start with the cost of the acquisitions.
I think we highlighted on the face of the P&amp;L that we had $3.6 million of transaction costs related to closing the deal that we did in this quarter the TheraCom deal.
In addition we obviously have an ongoing operating cost from all 3 of the companies we've acquired in the last few months that are incremental to last year's first quarter.
And as I mentioned they're included in our normal SG&amp;A.
And if you took out the normal run -- the ongoing operating costs our year-over-year SG&amp;A would have been down.
So I think that speaks well to the rest of our business and the continued impact of our productivity efforts throughout the company and our continued focus on keeping our costs down.
Yes.
And on the 2 big generic launches in the quarter I mean we had said on our Investor Day which we really were into the very big one -- the prominent one we were only about a week or so into it that conversion rates were slightly lower than expected but it settled down around about that 70% level which is a little bit less than you'd expect.
But it's definitely trending in the right direction.
And Zyprexa's right around where we expected it around 80%.
And we performed very much at expectations for both of them with the exception of the Lipitor which we discussed at Investor Day but which we now feel is back on track as we sit at the end of January.
L.P.</strong> Okay got it.
And just a follow-up I guess around the buyback it's $750 million left on the authorization and reiterating the $400 million that's stays in the guidance.
I was wondering at what point in the year what would trigger you to maybe look to upsize the buyback in fiscal '12? First off let me just clarify we've got $380 million remaining on our current authorization.
And obviously our guidance for the year is $400 million of share repurchases.
And I think you can look back to our historical performance to understand how we might deploy additional capital for repurchases.
If we don't make any other larger strategic moves we certainly have the capacity to increase the share repurchase.
And once again we've shown that we would do that similar to what we did last year if that's how the year progresses and we continue to meet our cash forecast.
So we're in a very good position.
The next question comes the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kipp Davis in for Larry.
So this is just sort of a follow-up on Lipitor.
So it sounds like you're communicating that it came a little bit slower initially than you would expect it in terms of generic conversion.
Now you're sort of more comfortable with where it is.
Just kind of curious after we think about Zyprexa and of course other generics that are going to come on line how have your thoughts changed for the rest of the year? What do you think some of the key variables are with regard to whether it's manufacturer strategies et cetera that might cause you to change your thoughts about the generic contributions throughout the year? Yes this is -- Lipitor was as we said a lot is really a unique product.
I mean first of all just the size of it just the prominence of it.
And we think that it's also uniquely a mail-ordered drug.
So Pfizer was able to contract with large purchases of the product directly.
We think that this is an unusual situation.
We don't think it's been particularly successful.
And we don't -- we have not changed any of our plans for any other generic launches this year.
And as I said we feel very reassured by the fact that the conversion rate is now approaching 70% and looks like it could go up from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up.
This is also sort of around consolidation.
How do we think about -- with a broadened specialty offering how do we think about customer consolidation in the specialty space? And would we think that specialty would always be serviced as part of a larger PBM contract or would that sort of business potentially be carved out? How do we think about that sort of relationship there? I don't know if that's a question for James or any of you folks.
Well you raise a good question.
I understand -- I think I understand what you're getting at.
First of all let me distinguish that our Specialty Distribution business is really dealing with physicians who administer products in their office.
And there's been numerous articles there's no doubt that AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group is the leading company in that area.
And we're very very successful there.
In our drug company we do have within our ultimate side segment several large companies that are involved with specialty products more on the mail-order side and on the patient delivery side.
And we definitely have expertise in servicing those customers.
So overall AmerisourceBergen really services a huge part of the specialty industry and we expect that to continue.
So I hope that's helpful.
I think both aspects of the Specialty Distribution are important to our company important to manufacturers and important to the patients.
The next question comes the line of Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I realize that all but one of your major customers purchase generics through AmeriSource.
But there have been rumblings in the market that perhaps 1 or 2 of the larger retail systems are looking at  internalizing generics perhaps slowly but are testing the market there.
Have you seen any shift in your customers' buying behavior around generics recently? Whether it be asking for greater discounts or looking to perhaps internalize some of the work? No I mean obviously generics are becoming more and more important.
They're a bigger part of the prescriptions that the patients get in the U.S.
every day and that's certainly what we expected.
But we really haven't seen any different shifts.
I mean we believe that our ProGen formerly and our overall generic offering offers the best everyday value to our customers.
And we continue to work very hard at keeping that to be the case.
And I think our customers appreciate it Eric.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Just one quick follow-up.
Another healthcare distributor this morning highlighted that physician activity was slower than they expected.
They saw less flu -- seasonal flu impact due to lower illness rates and the weather obviously.
I realize that's also a very small piece of your total business but can you give us any comments on what you're seeing around primary care and the flu market both for December quarter and where we are early this year? The flu vaccine has become a very small part of our over $8 billion in revenues.
The most activity actually takes place for flu vaccine in our fourth quarter of our fiscal year so the September quarter last fiscal year.
We have some modest activity in this quarter but it really is primarily now become that September quarter.
Of course our retailers are impacted by seasonal trends.
If there's a lot of flu a lot of cold that does help patient traffic.
But we really focus on overall top line growth not as much on individual prescription trends at the retail level.
So hopefully that's helpful for you.
Mark anything to add? No and they've been good Eric.
We're up year-over-year despite the completion of the Longs/CVS contract last quarter which I think is an indication of strength in the top line force.
The next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve you made a comment on the revenue line that you're seeing strength on the hospital side as well as in the independents.
Can you maybe just talk about -- is this that you've picked up any incremental customers? Or is there some other reason why you're seeing increased strength in those customers? Because your revenue came in much better than we would've anticipated.
I think we had some mix.
I mean the big customers grew pretty well in the quarter.
But our hospital business is -- we believe we have good market share there.
And really nothing extraordinary that happened I mean just good solid demand for our products.
Research Division</strong> What was -- did revenue come in where you were thinking? Or so do we have it wrong? Or is it just that this is what you were expecting based on what you've seen in your book and all of us got a little carried away on what our expectations were for the impact of generics? Revenues came in very close to what we're expecting.
I mean maybe slightly ahead of expectations.
But very close to what we were expecting.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up as we think about the oncology offices and we think about reimbursement as well as some of the programs for example that United is doing around bundling of services et cetera are you starting to see any change as we move into the next year? And we start thinking about planned design changes and changes with the managed care companies around how they pay for oncology.
Has there been any noted change this year? This discussion has been around for several years and I think it's just really -- it's why our offering is so important.
I mean you look at why we acquired IntrinsiQ and you look at the investments we make in our ION business our physician services company.
We really want to enhance the dialogue between managed care companies and our community oncologists then.
Our strategy is not to be a principal in those negotiations but really to assist our customers so they have the information available and they have the sort of data that managed care companies are looking at.
And we think are definitely enhancing that dialogue.
It's not -- we're stopping that trend.
I think as we sit here today -- I was in D.C.
last week and often obviously with some of our large oncology practices people are starting to recognize us.
It's very important to keep cancer care in the community setting not only from a patient point of view clinical point of view but also from an economic point of view.
And that's obviously a trend that AmerisourceBergen supports and a big part of what our Specialty Group practice -- is able to demonstrate everyday.
Research Division</strong> So just to understand it then you're not seeing anything as far as trends go -- and we think about how would it impact your revenue you're not seeing any changes to utilization or the way that the product is delivered based on these discussions? No.
And again we've had that SP formerly -- for over 6 years now.
So I think our practitioners are used to it.
Everything as we said in the release everything went very well in our oncology business this quarter.
The next question comes the line of A.J.
Rice with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess because there's so much focus on the VA contract I'd love to get any perspective you'd be willing to offer on sort of the rebidding and the ask for additional information and say taking a second look what does that imply about what they're trying to do there? And I guess I'll ask you a similar question to the one I asked at the Investor Day.
If you guys with what you now know if you were to be successful and get the contract would you consider that to be something that would be additive to your results almost immediately? Yes A.J.
this is Mike.
I'll give a go at it and I'll let Steve add any additional comments.
But when we got the additional information from the VA it essentially clarified that there is a small part of purchases approximately 3% that were off contract and clarified that fact and asked us to rebid based upon that new information.
I would go back to what we said when we bid this contract back in June we considered that to be our last and final bid.
We took it very seriously.
We considered the new information.
We made the appropriate modifications but it did not change our bid material from what we had done at the end of June.
Should we get the VA contract? Yes we think it would add right away.
I think our expectations it's a several billion dollar contract.
There's not many of those out there.
And typically the largest contracts in our industry get the best price.
And I would expect this to be similar and have the appropriate contribution for a large contract.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just maybe then a follow-up on the comments you made in the prepared remarks.
I think maybe Steve made this comment about outpatient in the drug corporation being particularly strong.
And I just was wondering -- maybe there's a little more color on what was exactly going on there in your opinion.
I think A.J.
you talked about really our old site? That maybe my accent.
That's really our nonhospital institutional business our mail-order skilled nursing facility institutional pharmacy et cetera.
And we did have good revenue trends in that sector.
And we have a couple of new customer wins there particularly we've talked about the Humana contract where we had good revenue performance.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes and I understood it was the alternate site.
I guess that's probably my lingo.
I was just curious if it was -- if there was underlying pickup in trend or is it new business? So it sounds like it's mostly new business maybe? Yes.
Yes you could say new business.
But just good high-growth sector.
I mean benefiting from favorable demographics.
The next question comes the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess one real quick follow-up about the VA here.
Obviously investors and analysts are all focused on this contract but can you tell us essentially when you're in discussions with clients I mean is this something that ever comes up? Or is this something that people ever look at and refer to? No I think everyone understands that it's a very very different contract.
The way it works it's very unique both as in the DOD and it doesn't really come up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then Mike maybe a question for you.
And I guess this kind of gets back to your original comments about how you see Lipitor come on.
When we look at the LIFO charge in the quarter obviously down less than a year ago.
Should we expect that to sort of increase as we see more of this -- the rate of adoption on like Lipitor and some of the other generics come on? Is that a good proxy then for us to think about how the pace of generics are coming onto the course of this fiscal year? Yes.
The LIFO charge as expected Charles to be significantly below what it was last year and really 2 reasons.
Last year was actually much higher than we expected because of how high the brand price appreciation was.
And again our expectation is it's still going to be strong this year but may moderate a little bit versus last year on the brand side.
But certainly with all the new generic introductions and 34 launches there's going to be a big impact on the generic price deflation this year from products coming off exclusivity.
And that has led to lower overall expectation of what a LIFO charge is going to be.
And that's really starting in the beginning of the year and will be pretty consistent the rest of the year as a lot of the launches are pretty well spaced throughout the year.
And we'll continue to have launches next quarter and all the way through to the end of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so that sequential change that's a good signal for us? And was this quarter sort of in line with what you had expected? Yes.
Yes very much in line.
And again it's a $15 million annual expectation.
We're always a little bit higher in the second quarter because that's where a lot of the brand inflation occurs.
But otherwise very much as we expected.
The next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just as a thought to the last question but taking it from a revenue perspective so you grew revenue at about 2.4% and you're guiding us for flat revenues.
So should we assume that second half revenues might decline given the timing of drugs going off 180s that you just mentioned? Yes some of that sequential change Ricky has to do obviously with our largest customer who only buys brand-name drugs from us and there's more products though generic their revs will moderate some over the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we model I just want to make sure that our model is kind of like accurate should we assume kind of like a first half kind of like 2%? And then sort of like negative growth in the second half to get to kind of like flat year-over-year? Or is it going to be smoother than that? I think it's going to be a little bit smoother.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the generic side I know we talked a lot about that but can you quantify kind of like the EPS impact for new generics? Is it back at this quarter? Just to give us a sense of how does it relate to kind of like this $0.05 $0.06 of benefit that you're seeing from Gemzar and Taxotere? Ricky I don't think we went -- get into a quarter by quantification of the impact of the new generics.
And obviously what happened last year has an impact as well the year-over-year impact.
I think again our guidance for the year's we expect that the cumulative impact of the 34 launches will offset the decline on the specialty generics side.
From a specialty generic perspective we had about a $0.06 benefit in the first quarter of last year.
And this year was pretty similar down about $0.005 or so.
Those comparisons will get more difficult the next couple of quarters as they were very big quarters here for Specialty.
But I think the beneficial impact of the oral solids will also increase in those next couple of quarters as well.
So we really haven't changed our viewpoint on the year about the offset on the oral solid side to the headwind on the specialty generic side.
Research Division</strong> Directionally will Lipitor and Zyprexa combine again directionally no specific numbers higher or lower than that kind of like $0.05 to $0.06? Again Ricky I don't want to get into the quantification.
I think we gave a pretty good view at Investor Day that the top 2 players were a significant part of the year in the 40% range I believe we gave.
And I think that's the best quantification that we want to get into at this time.
The next question goes to the line of George Hill with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Mike I just want to ask another guidance question directionally.
I know that you guys don't like to give quarterly guidance but straight expectations for Q2 or for a big number.
And as we think about the branded Lipitor to generic conversion I guess I'd ask 2 questions one do you expect the Pfizer retention rate to stay at the 30-ish percent range? Or how quickly do you guys think that'll continue to fall? And if it hovers at 30% it would look like the most profitable period for generic Lipitor to kind of be that first month right after May when there's no limit on multisource introductions and the whack probably won't catch up with the falling rate at which you guys can acquire the price.
I guess is it your sense that we might be -- I guess is the consensus maybe seem too ambitious for fiscal Q2? And maybe should be a little more optimistic on fiscal Q3? No I'd say again we do not -- let me make clear we do not give quarterly guidance.
And directionally the March quarter has always been our strongest quarter because of the timing and the impact of manufacturer our brand price increases and the impact that has on some of our fee-for-service agreements that trend is -- continues to be our expectation this year.
Certainly the second quarter is a big quarter for the oral solid generics as well.
Keep in mind the first quarter we only had a month of the Lipitor 2 months of the Zyprexa generics.
In the second quarter we have a full quarter benefit from those plus some new introductions.
So certainly we think the year-over-year benefit from oral solids is going to increase in the next quarter from the first quarter.
So the trending I think is again very similar to where it's been historically.
The second quarter continues to be our peak.
The number of suppliers that come on board after the exclusionary period for Lipitor can impact our numbers somewhat.
But again we're expecting a handful of people there and we're expecting a pretty significant price drop after exclusivity is over.
As far as the 70:30 that's in line with our expectations.
If it's a little bit more generic it helps us.
It helps us.
But again I think the historical trending as far as quarterly progression is still intact and as I've mentioned we've got tough comparisons of 2 and 3 on the specialty side but good performance on the oral solid side.
And the fourth quarter continues to be our easiest comparison.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a quick follow-up to Tom's question that's actually where investors worry about clients' trend being unusually high given what's going on in the M&amp;A space.
A lot of the big clients tend to see their relationships with the wholesalers as pretty transactional with low switch in costs.
What can AmeriSource do I guess to make these relationships more sticky? Well I think obviously with the smaller customers we have different services.
But in the larger customers I think we've proven time and again that our relationship to our largest customer is very valuable to them.
We were happy to receive the VIP award the last 2 years in a row.
And I think we can do different services especially around logistics cash flow joint negotiations even look at some generic lines with large customers.
I think there's lots of opportunities in the industry to work together.
And then of course I just -- I'd be remiss if I didn't mention our specialty franchise which I think is of great interest to almost anybody in the healthcare space.
Specialty is really where the innovation action's going to be in the years ahead.
And definitely our expertise our physician connectivity our understanding of the trends there some of the contracting we do with manufacturers is definitely of interest to all large participants from mail-order to retail to hospital et cetera.
The next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just to confirm it sounds like there's no change to the $0.14 to $0.15 EPS expected from the -- in fiscal '12 from the big specialty generics.
And then is the reintroduction of generic Oxaliplatin in August does that account for any material portion of that? Or is that going to be basically a rounding error at the end of today within fiscal '12? It's included in the $0.14 to $0.15.
But as you said it's only a little bit more than a month of inclusion in our fiscal '12.
But it is in there.
Next question comes from the line of Matthew Coffina with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
So you said before that Medco is only about 5% of earnings.
Maybe to help us get a better understanding of the flexibility in the cost structure here what from a specific standpoint -- what from a practical standpoint can you do in terms of reducing SG&amp;A when you lose a large customer like that? Well I think you look at our year and we always do a good job.
I think ABC's got a history of always continuing to look for new efficiencies.
And we continue that trend I think I highlighted in my remarks.
Medco is unusual because we really had very few sites it's a concentrated delivery they actually work primarily with our large greenfields so highly automated facilities.
So I think that that's why we pointed to a 5% contribution that also did contemplate the operating expense increase.
But in that particular case it's unlikely we would shut down any distribution centers or anything like that because of the way the business is currently contracted for and operates.
Want to say anything else Mike? No I think that's right.
I mean most of that impact is on the gross profit side.
Our expense to serve is very low in that contract as it is with high-volume concentrated location type customers as Steve mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And how do we think about Express Scripts in there a CuraScript subsidiary? And would that be seen as a competitor to you? And how do you think they'll be thinking about that? Well I think CuraScript does have the physician distribution business.
They also have I believe a large amount of order specialty pharmacy business.
But nothing extraordinary.
We work with all channel participants.
We do have some business relationships already with Express Scripts.
And obviously we think that there will be a subject for discussion should the merger be approved.
There are no further questions.
I turn the call back over to Barbara Brungess.
Thank you Cara.
And now I think Steve would just like to make a few closing remarks.
Yes.
Thank you everyone for your interest and for joining the call today.
We -- Mark and Barbara and I certainly do enjoy the exchanges.
Our take away message that you should all receive from ABC today is that we're off to a solid start with our results for this first quarter.
And we are well-positioned to meet our objectives for the year.
And we also hope to see you at one of the upcoming conferences that we'll be presenting at.
Thanks for your attention.
Thanks Steven.
Before we go I'll just highlight a couple of our upcoming events.
On February 8 we'll be attending the UBS Healthcare Conference in New York.
On February 28 we'll be attending the Citi Healthcare Conference also in New York.
And finally on March 14 we'll be attending the Barclays Healthcare Conference in Miami.
So thank you all very much for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today after 1:00 p.m.
through February 2 2012 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 231917.
International participants please dial (320) 365-3844 access code 231917.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our fiscal 2012 second quarter results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen's President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Vice President Controller and acting CFO.
During the call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2011.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen once again delivered solid quarterly results and our performance for the first half of our fiscal year 2012 positions us well to meet our objectives for the full year.
In the March quarter our revenues were up 2% to $20.1 billion.
Earnings per share were up 5% to $0.81 and that's on top of a 22% increase in the prior year.
We generated $236 million in operating cash flow and we repurchased $200 million of our shares.
I'm especially proud that we overcame a challenging comp to this quarter last year and exceeded our internal profit goals for each business unit.
During the quarter we also made excellent progress integrating recent acquisitions and working towards the closing of our World Courier acquisition.
Our strong cash generation and high-quality balance sheet continue to provide us with outstanding financial flexibility and give us the ability to fund our strategic initiatives grow our business and return funds to shareholders.
AmerisourceBergen is fortunate to be an important part of a growing industry.
Demographics and initiatives aimed at expanding access to health care and coverage -- and health care coverage should continue to drive organic growth in our industry over the next several years.
In addition launches of new pharmaceuticals as well as new indications for existing drugs should also drive sales growth over the next several years.
Whether the new therapies are traditional oral medications or complex biotech pharmaceuticals AmerisourceBergen is well positioned to not only benefit from the distribution of new products but also to offer pre-launch and commercialization services to manufacturers and to support patient access and reimbursement programs to help ensure that patients have access to life-saving therapies and that the products achieve their full potential in the marketplace.
At our verse [ph] revenue base positions us well to benefit from organic growth driven by demographics and our customer mix puts us in a favorable position to continue to benefit from the historic influx of generics.
As you know generics mitigate the top line dollar growth in our industry but drive tremendous value for wholesalers health care providers and patients alike.
In addition close scrutiny of health care expenses and cost-containment efforts underway by the federal government and other payers also drives demand for our services most notably in our Consulting Services group.
Over the last several years we have significantly strengthened our relationship with pharmaceutical manufacturers and we continue to look for meaningful ways to provide additional services across the supply channel to help them ensure they meet the challenges of today's changing health care landscape.
As our provider customers face similar challenges regarding cost-containment and reimbursement for services provided to patients they increasingly turn to AmerisourceBergen.
We help in making their health care practices run as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Our provider customers work hard every day to provide world-class patient care and we believe they deserve fair reimbursement for the professional services they provide.
AmerisourceBergen is an active participant participating in policy discussions in Washington D.C.
with the objective of helping legislators understand our industry and our importance to the health care system.
Our associates are focused on meeting our objectives for the year both in terms of providing outstanding service to customers and in our financial performance.
They continue to seek creative ways to meet the challenges in the diverse markets we serve and identify new opportunities to add value through collaborative innovation and by maximizing efficiency.
I take great pride in their enthusiasm and dedication and it is my honor to work beside them.
Turning now to our business units.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation as expected had flat revenue in the quarter as strong performance in the institutional segment was offset by the previously disclosed loss of a large retail customer.
Top line growth was also mitigated by the impact of generic convergence including decreased sales to our largest customer.
Our ABDC associates did a stellar job this quarter managing several generic launches including 5 different generic products that launched within one week.
Year-to-date the generic launches have performed as planned and we of course look forward to several more launches still to come in the second half of the year.
With over 4 600 members our Good Neighbor Pharmacy network the third largest network of pharmacies in the U.S.
continues to play a crucial role in providing pharmacy care nationwide.
Patients prefer choice when determining where to fill their prescriptions and our retail customers are very adept at fulfilling unique patient needs and at adapting to the changing needs of the marketplace.
Our ASHP implementation continues to run smoothly with 8 distribution centers conversions complete 2 additional conversions occurring tomorrow and the remainder planned for the beginning of 2013.
As we have gained experience with the new system particularly with the corporate and back-office functions we have already begun to realize some operational savings which is reflected in part in the good performance we had on the expense line this quarter.
Our investments in our Canadian operations to support significant new business wins continued in the March quarter.
Our associates have done a tremendous job setting up 4 new distribution centers in 6 months in order to support this new business.
There is still much work to be done but we are confident that our expansion efforts will meaningfully increase the value we bring to both independent pharmacies and especially providers in the Canadian market.
As we noted in the press release following the closing of the merger of Express Scripts and Medco in early April we amended our existing Medco agreement to provide for the contract to end upon the award and implementation of one or more new pharmaceutical distribution agreements for the newly combined business.
Express Scripts has issued an RFP for the combined business and anticipate that the new contract or contracts will begin on October 1 2012.
We are participating fully in the competitive RFP process and we intend to pursue this opportunity to retain or grow the business under a new contract.
We have had an excellent working relationship with Medco for over 2 decades and we are excited about the opportunity to demonstrate the value we can bring to the newly combined entity.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group had another strong quarter with revenues up 6% with particularly strong performance in third-party logistics and in our vaccine and physician distribution business.
Our oncology business performed well while facing a very difficult comparison due to the strong performance of the 3 large Besse generic products last year.
While our Specialty Group is best known for our oncology franchise we are an instrumental part of the commercialization strategy for any infusible product launched into the physician marketplace.
We continue to execute very well on the launch of a new brand of ophthalmology product establishing significant market share in what was the first full quarter of the introduction.
Our Specialty Group often collaborates with our Consulting Services group to help ensure patients have access to products by utilizing the full suite of capabilities of our physician networks as well as our reimbursement and patient support program expertise.
For example we recently helped a manufacturer launch a new biotech product.
And during the March quarter we were able to not only achieve the leading market share for the distribution of the product but also to provide third-party logistics contract packaging and all of the reimbursement and patient support programs for the product across the market.
We are very proud that these combined service offerings provide unmatched value to manufacturers and distinguish AmerisourceBergen in the marketplace.
As we look at the products in development pipelines today we believe that we will win even more of these opportunities in the future which will be an important driver of our growth in the years ahead.
Our Consulting Services group delivered a very strong quarter while making excellent progress in the integration of TheraCom and Premier Source which are both performing very well.
The last group had the strongest quarter in its history even without the contributions from TheraCom.
While the group only represents about 2% of our revenues we believe our packaging and consulting services provide essential expertise to pharmaceutical manufacturers to help ensure that their products are brought to market as safely quickly and efficiently as possible.
In addition our reimbursement expertise helps ensure that patients who can benefit from both new and mature therapies have access to the products.
We continue to make good progress towards closing our most recent acquisition World Courier.
As we deepen our knowledge and understanding of their business I am more convinced than ever that World Courier affords us the opportunity not only to acquire the market leader in premium niche clinical trial logistics services but also to begin to build out a framework to expand our consulting and commercialization services beyond North America.
In this current quarter we will begin operating in 50 new international markets and employ about 1 500 new associates outside North America.
This is significant expansion for ABC and we are tremendously excited about welcoming the World Courier team to ABC.
In addition we are exploring ways to potentially expand some of our niche Specialty Distribution services into select markets as well.
We expect to close the acquisition next week at the end of April and I'm very excited about the potential we see in the World Courier platform in the years ahead.
Given the continued strength of our balance sheet we continue to look for acquisitions that meet the criteria we've had in place for quite some time.
They should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel they should be within our established core competency and they should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any further contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we continue to be receptive to acquisitions and we continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceutical and Specialty Distribution and Services as well as consulting and packaging services.
While we historically have been very comfortable in the $200 million to $300 million range we will consider selling larger as we did with World Courier if it made good strategic sense and would deliver value to our company and our shareholders.
Looking ahead the results we've had in the first half of our year have positioned us well to meet our objectives for the full fiscal year.
We have a difficult comparison to overcome in 2012 but we continue to expect GAAP earnings per share to be within the range of $2.74 to $2.84 and we are tracking towards the midpoint of that range.
Tim will provide the details in our assumptions for the remainder of the year but I want to highlight that we continue to remain disciplined on expenses our cash flows are strong and we have increased our share repurchase assumption for the year.
Looking further ahead to 2013 we should have a carryover from some of the launches that occur late in our fiscal 2012 including the relaunch of Oxaliplatin and we should begin to benefit from the completion of our ASHP implementation.
In fiscal 2014 we should begin to see this 30 million to 40 million uninsured patients enter the health care market driving demand for pharmaceuticals that should carry over into 2015 and beyond.
In addition 2014 and 2015 are expected to be good years for generic conversions.
And of course there's a chance that biosimilars may also come to market in that time frame.
Before turn it over to Tim I want to reiterate the confidence that I have in our business and in our future.
Demand is strong for the products we distribute and we play an essential role in pharmaceutical supply channel.
We've positioned ourselves well to continue to benefit from the 2 key growth drivers generics and specialty products and we have continued to invest in our distribution and in our services businesses.
Over the last year we were summating important investment in other areas of our business with an eye to the future.
We expect demand for specialty products to continue to grow not only the U.S.
but throughout the world and the commercialization and reimbursement support services we provide to manufacturers will help support that growth.
As cost containment efforts continue to cross the health care landscape our customers increasingly turn to us for help in meeting the challenges of the marketplace without sacrificing patient care.
Finally the vision and innovative ideas that our associates bring to market every day set us apart in our industry and I am proud to be their leader.
Here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
It's my pleasure to be participating in my first earnings call as acting CFO.
And I am pleased to report another solid ABC quarter and most importantly that our Q2 results are on track with our internal plan.
The highlights this quarter: excellent top line growth at our Specialty and Consulting businesses; very good execution on new generic launches and continued focus on expense management across the organization; and finally another quarter of strong cash generation.
Now let's turn to the quarterly details.
And starting with the top line revenues were $20.1 billion a 1.6% increase over last year's quarter.
Drug company revenues were essentially flat as we guided.
We had strong performance in our alternate site and health system segments offset by the loss of a large chain customer last year as well as the impact from brand to generic conversions.
The Specialty Group revenues increased 6% led by 2 of our businesses with above market growth.
ICS our third-party logistics business and Besse Medical our vaccine and physician office distribution business which benefited from a full quarter impact of sales of a new ophthalmology drug.
The Consulting group though small to the overall top line continues to perform well.
Excluding their TheraCom acquisition they had over 20% top line growth.
TheraCom contributed just under 1% of our overall revenue growth in the quarter.
Moving to gross profit.
Gross profit was $695 million in the quarter up 1.1% from last March with a gross margin of 3.46% in the quarter down about 2 basis points from last year.
As we have discussed in the past our second quarter was a very tough comp due to the significant contribution in the prior year from oncology generics.
In the second quarter 2011 these oncology drugs contributed about $0.16 of EPS to our results.
Our gross margin expanded 31 basis points in the March 2011 quarter.
This year we are able to effectively offset this headwind with contributions from the new oral solid generics as well as the lower contribution from oncology generics and gross profit contributions from our acquired companies.
Additionally our LIFO charge was approximately $4 million in the quarter down $10 million from last year.
We continue to expect our LIFO charge will be approximately $15 million down significantly from last year.
Our annual LIFO forecast is based on our expectation that brand price inflation will be somewhat less this year.
And more importantly we will see significant generic price deflation in the second half of our fiscal year related to key brand to generic conversions coming off exclusivity.
Finally the benefit we received from the new generic launches and also price appreciation was in line with our expectations.
This quarter we did an excellent job controlling our operating expenses.
Operating expenses were approximately $327 million up 1.5%.
However this amount includes the operating expenses of about $11 million from our recently acquired companies.
Additionally we had $9 million of executive severance and acquisition-related transaction costs.
Operating expenses would've been down excluding the impact of our acquisitions due to lower compensation costs including benefits.
Additionally our SAP implementation is progressing well at the corporate level.
The system has reached a level of stability faster than we expected enabling us to realize some early savings especially with external consultants.
Last quarter our guidance was an annual expense increase of about 3% due to our acquisitions.
As an organization we continue to exercise discipline and focus on managing expenses.
We now expect our total operating expenses for our base business before adding World Courier to be essentially flat for the year.
Operating income of $368 million in the quarter increased about 1% while operating margin was down 2 basis points compared to last March.
Our current quarter was slowed by the $9 million of executive severance and acquisition transaction costs.
Excluding these nonrecurring expenses our operating income margin would've expanded 3 basis points to 1.88%.
Moving below the operating income line interest expense of nearly $24 million in the March quarter increased 25% compared to last year primarily as a result of our $500 million bonds we issued back in November.
The proceeds help to fund the TheraCom acquisition and will also contribute to the retirement of our 2012 bonds that mature in mid-September.
Our effective income tax rate of 38.4% was slightly higher than last year's 38.1% and is right in line with our expected annualized rate of 38.4%.
Our diluted GAAP earnings per share in the quarter of $0.81 increased by $0.04 or 5% over the same quarter last year.
And again overcoming a $0.16 headwind from the contribution from specialty generics in the March 2011 quarter.
Our EPS benefited from a reduction in our average diluted shares related to our ongoing share repurchase program.
Average diluted shares for the quarter were approximately 262 million down just over 6% from last March.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows where trends continue to be very favorable.
We generated $236 million of cash from operations in the quarter bringing our 6-month total to $668 million compared to generating $577 million for the first 6 months last year.
We continue to manage AR and inventory levels very closely and this has benefited our working capital this year.
With our daily revenue volume exceeding $300 million per business day our quarter-end working capital snapshots are subject to volatility.
Therefore our 6-month cash results cannot be extrapolated to determine a full year cash flow estimate.
Capital expenditures were $40 million in the quarter and $88 million for the 6 months.
During the last 2 years we put a number of capital projects on hold as we focused on SAP.
We have a pipeline of attractive internal projects that we have begun to pursue as our SAP deployment moves along.
Additionally we have CapEx associated with our recent TheraCom acquisition.
Because of this we will exceed our previous target of $150 million for CapEx and we will be closer to $200 million for the year.
Even with this additional CapEx we expect that our free cash flow will now be in the $800 million to $900 million range.
During the quarter we bought back $200 million of our shares.
For 6 months we've purchased $320 million of shares.
At March 31 we have approximately $180 million left on our current share repurchase authorization.
In terms of key financial metrics that we track our average day sales in inventory for the quarter remained at 14 days consistent with fiscal '11.
Average DSOs of 18 days in the March quarter were up slightly from 17.3 days last year.
And favorable payables timing helped raise average quarterly DPOs by over 3 days compared to fiscal '11.
With our recent debt offering our gross debt the total debt and capital ratio at the end of March was 39% above our target range of 30% to 35%.
And it will remain above the range until we pay off our $400 million of debt in September.
Our cash balance at March 31 was $2.3 billion.
Keep in mind that we will be funding our World Courier acquisition from cash and we will be paying down debt in September as previously mentioned.
After these 2 large cash outlays we will still have financial flexibility to fund CapEx and strategic initiatives and return to capital -- and return capital to our shareholders.
Now let's turn to updated fiscal 2012 guidance.
We expect our diluted GAAP EPS to track to the middle of the range we previously provided $2.74 to $2.84.
Our assumption for revenue growth remains unchanged flat-to-modest revenue growth.
We expect our operating margin expansion to be in the high-single-digit basis points.
Free cash flow will now be in the $800 million to $900 million range.
And we are raising our guidance for share repurchases for the year to $500 million which will complete our current share repurchase authorization.
Looking ahead I would like to remind everyone that Q3 is another challenging comparison for us because of the $0.17 EPS contribution from oncology generics last year.
Also in Q3 2012 we have 2 of the large generics coming off exclusivity.
When looking out to the second half of the year we believe Q4 will be somewhat of an easier comparison.
With the return of Oxaliplatin for half a quarter a few favorable year-end generic launches for the Drug Company and favorable expense comparisons year-over-year.
So before I turn it back to Barbara let me reiterate that 6 months into the fiscal year we are performing well in our key areas of the business and we are well positioned to meet our financial targets for fiscal 2012.
One final point I'd like to take a moment and thank our ABC associates especially those in the finance and accounting areas that have stepped up the last 2 months and helped support the organization and me in particular during our CFO transition period.
Thanks everyone.
Here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
.
Thank you Tim.
Operator we'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Go ahead operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just want to quickly follow up Tim with respect to some of your comments on the operating margin expansion goals for the year.
Previously the company had expected operating margin expansion in the high single-digit kind of low double-digit range and now it seems like you're suggesting high single-digit.
I guess -- could just give me a sense for maybe what has changed in that thinking? And I know there were some onetime costs that you're now embedding in your estimates and I'm curious if there's anything else that I should be thinking about.
No we changed our guidance to high single-digit.
In terms of looking out we did an assessment of the full year and looking out we had some deal costs in Q2 and some onetime items nonrecurring items.
And as we look out we're going to have some similar costs in Q3 with the World Courier transaction.
So when we look out and do a reassessment we felt more comfortable that high single-digit was a realistic target for us for the year and there's really nothing else factored into that.
Research Division</strong> And Tim maybe if I could just ask a follow up on the World Courier group.
You originally sort of guided $0.06 to $0.10 worth of accretion and I'm kind curious is there anything embedded from an accretion standpoint in your fiscal '12 guidance as it relates to World Courier? And it kind of sounds like you're going to be taking down some integration costs or acquisition-related costs next quarter.
I don't know if you care to size those at this point.
Glen no.
We will have some transaction-related acquisition costs in Q3.
Probably not more than the number that we had for Q2.
And there is no accretion in our numbers for this fiscal year.
We expect it to be neutral.
And in terms of next year for fiscal '13 we're still confident with that guidance of $0.06 to $0.10.
Our next question comes from Larry Marsh with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So my question is as follows Steve around Medco.
Here you're communicating -- I guess is it fair to say that you voluntarily agreed to move up the termination date of your Medco relationship by 6 months? And if so is there any benefit for doing so and possibly foregoing that profit stream? And then just around the topic I wanted to confirm you said you've already have a relationship with Express Scripts.
How long have you had that? And then have you disclosed or in a position to comment about the length of the suggested new contract under the RFP? First of all obviously we are part of a very active process here and we want to be very respectful of that and some of the questions should really be directed to the buyer.
But I think ABC as you know has been very proud of over 2 decades of service to Medco and now you could almost say we are the incumbent here because we've had such a long relationship.
So we wanted to demonstrate flexibility.
We wanted to recognize that this is a new entity that has their own requirements and will have a different dynamics to relationship.
And now it just made sense for us to be concurrent with the current requirements.
So we demonstrated flexibility.
We demonstrated that ABC is a good partner and listens to our customers and I think that that will hopefully put us in a good position throughout the contracting process but it will be competitive.
And I guess the only internal benefit I can point to is that this is concurrent with our fiscal year and whatever happens we'll be in a good position to plan for it and to communicate that to our investors.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like you're uncomfortable commenting about the length of the contract as proposed in the RFP at this point.
As far as we know as far as we could say it's pretty standard type of contract term.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So we assume maybe 3 years but again not commenting.
And I guess just a follow-up to you and Tim around SAP implementation we appreciate the update there.
If you let it to go back or remember some of the bigger expenses for this seemed to be fiscal '10 and '11 $40 million to $50 million a year you've mentioned Tim stability sooner than you thought.
Can you ballpark kind of expenses around SAP for you this year? And how do we think about that comparable to next year? Yes.
Larry our guidance has been that we'll see some benefit for SAP next year 6 months after our last DC deployment so we expect that to be in Q4 and we've guided to $10 million.
And we expect the full benefit of about $40 million to be in '14.
And so far the benefit that we've had this year for SAP is really incremental for that.
I mean this is just expense that we've been able to take out of our operating budget which has probably been a few million dollars.
So again they're separate.
One's not a part of the other.
Research Division</strong> I got it.
Right.
Expenses associated with consultants and such but again $10 million incremental next year $40 million for '14.
And then just to clarify I think it's an important point the guidance confirming the range but you're suggesting the $0.02 which was the severance and transaction cost this quarter and the $0.02 which -- ballpark of transaction cost next quarter are included now in that range.
You're not breaking that out at all? No absolutely Larry.
We're GAAP and we include that in.
Research Division</strong> And again you're saying that's a big reason why you're top and the operating margin expansion has been pulled down? Absolutely.
Our next question comes from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
L.P.</strong> Just to go back to the Express Scripts contract.
Steve it sounds like -- you mentioned contract or contracts so I'm assuming there's some suggestion that it could be broken up.
Any insight into this view or maybe more importantly what benefit that would create for Express to have this contract separated? Well I think in terms of processing there's not much differentiation between s $10 billion contract or a $15 billion or $20 billion contract it's just that that is the way these large contracts tend to go.
And there could be some geographical regional benefit based on where they're planning to have their large mail-order sites there could be a way to separate the specialty business with the core mail-order business.
So we have 2 big specialty units so -- but again these are questions that we probably are not that comfortable commenting on and could probably be best be directed to Express Scripts sir.
L.P.</strong> No I definitely appreciate that.
And I guess just one follow-up Steve.
Given the somewhat more acquisitive nature of the company as of late and I know you've gotten this question before and I imagine as you continue to do acquisitions you might get it more in the future relative to your peers.
Any thoughts or discussion between you and Tim about moving to a cash EPS or at least breaking out a cash EPS? No we haven't.
We lack -- we think we report not only good earnings but very high quality earnings and at the moment that hasn't been under consideration.
And we in our public company filings we feel we give pretty good disclosure on some of those differences especially around intangibles.
And the reader of those documents can go ahead and do that calculation.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallucci with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Steve I was wondering if you could expand on some of your prepared remarks around sort of international and how you see the opportunity may be there over -- not the near-term necessarily but the next few to 5 years it sounds like maybe World Courier is a bit of a platform that you could grow from in different ways so if you have any thoughts there it would be appreciated.
Well there's a couple of things.
First of all again we do $300 million in revenue a day as ABC but one of the things we've been very very happy with is our specialty performance in Canada.
This is -- this market works differently than it does in the U.S.
but we've been able to do some joint programs we've been able to help with a more complex reimbursement environment there including a pretty robust product market that we -- that is not generally known.
At least here in the U.S.
we think about it as single-payer market that hasn't been the case.
We've been able to help we have a very strong presence with new infusible drugs.
So what we've seen is a manufacturer environment that ABC is very comfortable in contracting with that is looking for us to get into more countries.
So we've been prompted to look at international opportunities by manufacturers.
Then comes World Courier we're in 50 new countries as of next week hopefully.
We have 1 500 associates that are very tenured.
We've been extremely impressed with the quality of the World Courier associates.
As you know health care is very local.
So we think that we have an opportunity to understand health care markets both organic and acquisitive opportunities with people on the ground there who speak the language and know the trends know who's the right players the ethical players the high quality players in that environment.
And we think that that's going to give us a good opportunity.
We also think that as the products that World Courier is managing are commercialized as more and more of those products are commercialized and come to market as -- middle class is growing in some countries that we haven't traditionally thought about as being big [indiscernible] sort of -- and especially consumers of products we think we're going to have an opportunity to participate in those commercialization strategies.
Think about it World Courier has handled those products they know the treatment centers they know the environment.
So we think that we have to recharacterize part of the business but we think we can do that so long answer but as you can tell I'm very enthusiastic about this.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's clear.
And then maybe just one housekeeping item.
On the CapEx can you sort of breakdown your maintenance CapEx versus maybe what's additional and some of those projects that you highlighted earlier do they seep into next year? Should we assume that it comes back down a little bit or how are you thinking about that? Good question.
No we -- when we look at maintenance CapEx we think it's typically between about $100 million and $120 million.
We have some big projects this year supporting our expansion up in Canada.
We're looking at another DC project in the U.S.
in terms of expansion automation renovation and our TheraCom acquisition.
So I would say that the $200 million is probably a peak and it definitely should come down next year.
Probably about half of the maintenance CapEx is probably a good -- kind of a good range.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve what kind of clarity do you actually have on -- does the RFP provide for you? I mean I assume you would have size of the potential contract the mail footprint you'd be serving whether or not specialty would be there.
I mean are there some things you could disclose there that would be helpful for us? I think we partly said Bob I appreciate your interest in this and believe you me I am really interested in this and the ABC team is very interested in this.
We're just participating fully in the RFP process it has just begun.
So I could tell you we really don't -- we think it's in the range of about a $20 billion contract.
So I will tell you that Medco peaked with ABC at about 19% of our revenues in fiscal year 2011 and it's come off a few percent from that and our current run rate is more in the mid-teens 16% range.
So we could potentially gain some couple billion dollars in new revenue here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any sense on timing when a decision will ultimately be made obviously before October 1.
But how much time would you need? And do you anticipate if you win is there investment you need to make or in the unfortunate event you don't win what kind of offsets we might see to your cost structure some initiatives you'd pursue? Well we're mainly servicing the current business out of 3 DCs and we certainly would start giving consideration to what it could mean if we lose.
But from a more exciting basis I think we do have the capacity to service this business without much incremental investment.
And we look forward to talking about the different capabilities that ABC brings to the table.
And we're participating fully in this contract.
Research Division</strong> And timing Steve? Anything? No I just think you know -- I think you know -- you cover Express Scripts.
You know they move quickly so that's all I can tell you.
They don't let the grass grow under their feet.
So we expect them to have a very active and quick and decisive process unlike this other very public contract that we went through very recently.
So that should make everyone happy at least we'd all know where we stand very quickly.
We believe so.
Our next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up [ph] on the Medco Express side from what we understand specialty is included in your relationship with legacy Medco.
Should we assume that the services that you provided to Medco on the specialty side are more of wholesale-type services or do you also provide them kind of like the added value services that's associated with your specialty business? We are both the wholesaler to the former Accredo division the Accredo division of Medco and now will be Express Scripts.
And we have obviously worked very collaboratively with them in many areas including the hospital pharmacy area and the specialty area.
So I can't -- I'm not comfortable pointing to any particular program but certainly as our largest customer we spend a lot of time working on common approaches to the marketplace and we would expect to bring that expertise and that market knowledge and the manufacturer relationships that we have to the combined entity now.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I have a couple of just questions from modeling purposes.
For the SG&amp;A level for the remainder of the year should we assume same level as we saw in the March quarter or should we see a step up and if so can you quantify for us? And is it related to World Courier? We at this point Ricky we don't have World Courier finished yet completed.
But definitely with World Courier coming in 2 months in quarter 3 and we'll have them for the entire Q4 they will add extra expense.
When I gave the guidance today this morning again I was talking about the core business being flat.
For the core business we will see a little bit of a step up in 3 but probably not dramatic.
And again we will have some nonrecurring acquisition-related cost in Q3 probably not in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just qualify to us the impact from a basis point perspective of the acquisitions on the margins for this quarter? In terms of SG&amp;A? Research Division</strong> SG&amp;A or operating margin.
Well again we commented that we had about $11 million of SG&amp;A expense in the quarter from our acquisitions primarily TheraCom.
So again it's probably 4 3 4 basis points.
Our next question comes from Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I think a lot of the timely questions have been answered so I'll shift gears a bit.
Health systems and alternate site in your drug company sound like another good quarter there above market growth perhaps.
I'm curious if you can define what's leading to this growth.
It must be share capture I don't want to lead you too much but the market's clearly not growing at a rapid pace.
You're primarily doing pharmaceuticals and not the other broad med service lines or other services into the health systems.
So could you just give us some better sense on what's driving that growth in health systems and alternate site and then perhaps if you could frame it would be helpful too.
Well with health systems we think we have a market share that is at least comparable maybe even the largest in the U.S.
We believe we're with the right customers we believe that we're growing with them.
We believe that we have some nice little services that we provide that maybe don't get the headlines but they are additive to their business like helping them with 340B consulting helping them with price pharmacy.
So we have a very good practice in health systems and we believe we're with the companies that are the leaders in that space and I think some of our customers are there.
Likewise with alternate care I think ABC has been a leader there.
Certainly our knowledge of specialty and our ability to offer an integrated solution on the specialty and drug wholesale side and our knowledge of the manufacturing environment and the patient environment and the reimbursement environment has been very very helpful.
And the Humana contract we think was a direct result of that knowledge and that's a very fast grower.
We're with a lot of the companies that are growing faster than the market and when we discuss potential RFP responses we look at who do we think will be the winners in a certain space and we like to really target them and try to get them into the ABC portfolio.
So I think you could look at it as it's not a matter of happenstance it's a matter of strategically planning the accounts that we believe will be winners in the space.
Research Division</strong> Great answer Steve.
Could you put a frame around the growth rates in those 2 segments? I think we can maybe look at that and invest it out.
I think we've done some of that in the past.
But we don't have a framework that we can share right now.
Our next question comes from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think that you made a comment earlier around your expectations for LIFO this year and within that comment Tim I think you talked about branded price inflation being less and more deflation on the generic side.
Can you maybe just talk about what you actually saw in this quarter and then what you are seeing in the marketplace around an increase in competition as far as the number of generic manufacturers that spend a nice steady state the last couple of years are you seeing a trend that's perhaps changing a little bit as we go through the next couple of months? In terms of -- and when I speak of LIFO just let me say that we look at our portfolio of drugs which -- in our mix and in terms of brand last year we had pretty healthy price increases for brands slightly above 8%.
This year we're tracking slightly below 8% again for our mix of inventory.
So a little bit different a little bit lower.
But on the generic side we really expect that we'll see some deflation second half of the year especially on Lipitor and Zyprexa the generics when they come off exclusivity which will help and give us a LIFO benefit.
In terms of your second question about suppliers.
I mean last year we also had pretty good price appreciation on the generic side.
It's still pretty good but that's probably off a little bit this year it's softened a little bit this year but still pretty healthy.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Steve just one quick question for you on the oncology side of your business.
We know of a number of these pilot programs that have been started by Aetna and United around the way they're paying their physician in trying to take the drug cost out of the equation are you seeing that impact your business at all? And what are the physicians saying? And if it does take hold what does that mean longer term will that change the relationship you have with the physician where you'll now have a relationship with one of the managed-care companies? How should we think about that? Well our strategy with the large payers is really to help them understand how important community oncology is.
We believe that it's not only important from a clinical perspective but we believe that the patient is best served being in the community and even the payer is best served by those patients being in the community.
So our big effort over there is really to help bring the 2 sides together.
We have taken a lot of effort at ION our physician services company primarily focused on oncology to help the 2 sides communicate better have a transparent relationship.
And we don't anticipate having a direct relationship with the payer but we intend to help our customers contract more effectively and more transparently with the payers and I think we're making a lot of progress there.
Your next question comes from David Larsen with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> A question for Tim.
It looks like according to my model your SG&amp;A costs on a year-over-year basis declined by about $12 million.
Can you describe sort of the cost control process you go through on a quarterly basis and if that's sustainable? Sure David.
I mean when we looked at the year I mean we knew and we guided that Q2 and Q3 would be very tough comparisons I mean we knew it going into the year.
And we put word out through our businesses to really manage expenses this year.
And we knew we had to focus in this area.
So I mean we looked hard at managing labor and payroll expense.
We looked at outside consulting and services and then this year too we've had some good discipline and credit collections and our bad debts are down.
So really it's all of our businesses focusing on headcount on making sure they spend money prudently and that's going to carry forward into quarters 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> And then if I were to look at like say 3% of SG&amp;A in fiscal '11 I'm coming up with like $35 million.
So for the incremental acquisition cost with like World Courier group and these other ones will all-in that will be more than $35 million? And that's why they'll be -- that's why there was a slight reduction on the operating margin expansion guidance is that correct? Well in terms of your question the $35 million no I don't think the  all-in -- I mean we should be under that number.
So hopefully that helps you in terms of some guidance but again we think we're managing expenses well.
We also had the benefit this quarter and we'll have for the rest of the year in terms of SAP being stable and we're seeing the benefits there.
So all in all I mean I think what we're saying here is that expense management is offsetting the increases from the special charges and the nonrecurring charges.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then your merchandise inventory looked like it declined nicely on a sequential basis maybe leading to an increase in cash flow guidance.
That looked nice.
Yes definitely.
Like David in my comments I've mentioned that we've really focused on working capital.
All of our businesses are focused on it.
Managing AR managing inventories.
So we are seeing some really good reductions in those areas especially at our ABSG businesses.
Okay our last question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So I guess just one more question on the Express Medco I'm obligated at the end here with the -- I think you mentioned in your comments that in some ways you viewed yourself as the primary incumbent on the Express Medco contracts.
I guess my question is are you now happy this is going to an official RFP versus your previous thought pattern over the past 9 months since this deal got announced? Or are you disappointed? Is it because you thought you were the primary incumbent or are you just indifferent? Just trying to get more color sort of on your view now the new information versus kind of what you thought previously.
I was actually at a NACDS conference and I heard one political pundit speak about the election and they said incumbency is a 4-point advantage so I was just trying to get that incumbent advantage in there.
But that's just my view I mean I don't know if anyone else has that view.
We did of course do more business with Medco than the current wholesaler did with ESR so you could look at it as an incumbency but I think that's just really my view but we are pleased that this has been decided relatively early in the process.
That's very helpful from a planning perspective and again it's helped us have a very quick and interesting discussion with ESR.
So we think that it's a positive for the industry and we think that potentially it could be positive for AmerisourceBergen.
Thanks Steve.
Now Steve Collis would like to make some final comments before we go.
We know that it's a very busy day so we really do appreciate everyone's interest and attention with AmerisourceBergen.
I would like to commend my colleague and our acting CFO Tim Guttman for his leadership and contribution during this transition period.
As you could see Tim's really done a great job.
So to wrap up ABC thinks this is a really good quarter for us and especially given our tough comps and we are proud to report good momentum on all fronts at this halfway point in our fiscal year 2012.
Thank you again for your attention.
Thanks Steve and before we go I'd just like to quickly highlight our upcoming events.
On May 17 we'll be presenting at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2012 Health Care Conference in Las Vegas.
And on June 6 we will be presenting at the Goldman Sachs 33rd Annual Global Healthcare Conference.
That concludes our call for today.
And now I will turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1:00 p.m.
today through midnight May 3 2012.
You may access the replay service by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering access code 243852.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
This concludes our conference for today and thank you for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference services.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the ABC Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call covering our fiscal 2002 -- 2012 third quarter results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen's President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2011.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen once again overcame a challenging year-over-year comparison and delivered solid quarterly results.
In the June quarter our revenues were down 2% to $19.8 billion but our GAAP earnings per share were up 8% to $0.71.
We made excellent progress integrating recent acquisitions including World Courier which closed in early May.
Our strong cash generation and high-quality balance sheet continue to provide us with outstanding financial flexibility and give us the ability to fund our strategic initiatives grow our business and return funds to shareholders.
Through 9 months we are well positioned to meet objectives for the full year.
Our diverse revenue base continues to position us well to benefit from organic growth across the entire spectrum of pharmaceutical care and our customer mix helps drive benefits from the historic influx of generics.
Even as generics mitigate the top line dollar growth in our industry IMS Health's compounded annual sales growth in the U.S.
in the range of 1% to 4% and 4% to 6% worldwide through 2016.
In addition continued scrutiny of health care expenses and cost-containment efforts underway by the U.S.
Federal government and commercial payers demand continues improvement in efficiency productivity and effectiveness across all aspects of health care.
One of the hallmarks of the U.S.
market in particular is the quality of the relationship wholesalers have with pharmaceutical manufacturers.
Over the last several years AmerisourceBergen has significantly strengthened our relationship with pharmaceutical manufacturers and we continue to put an emphasis on looking for meaningful ways to provide additional services across the supply channel in order to help manufacturers meet the challenges of today's changing health care landscape.
This is the strategic rationale for the material acquisitions we have made in the past 12 months.
As we sit here today we believe that both the TheraCom and World Courier acquisitions have significantly enhanced our spectrum of services at the supply channel.
Moreover they have brought a cadre of valuable new customers employees and capabilities which have exceeded our pre-closing expectations.
As our provider customers face similar challenges regarding cost containment and reimbursement for services provided to patients and new challenges such as accountable care organization they also increasingly turn to AmerisourceBergen for help in making their health care practices run as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Our provider customers deliver world-class patient care on navigating a complex wave of reimbursement.
And we believe they deserve fair compensation for the professional services they provide.
AmerisourceBergen continues to be an active participant in policy discussions in Washington with the objective of helping legislators understand our industry and our importance to the health care system.
AmerisourceBergen associates remain focused on meeting objectives for the year both in terms of our financial performance and in delivering outstanding service to our customers.
I take great pride in the enthusiasm and dedication of our team and I'm honored to work beside them everyday.
They meet challenges with creativity and determination and they tirelessly seek new ways to meet the needs of the diverse markets we serve through collaborative innovation and by maximizing efficiency.
As we noted in our press release we believe it was prudent to separate our manufacture services business from pharmaceutical distribution for financial reporting purposes.
We believe that disclosing this additional level of detail will increase investor understanding of our business and further improve the overall transparency of our financial reporting.
Tim will cover the financials for the 2 segments and I will now cover some of the key trends in our business units during the quarter.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation revenue declined 5% due in large part to a decline in sales to our largest customer as well as the previously reported loss of a large retail customer beginning last September.
In addition we anniversaried last year's addition of a new alternate site customer in May and top line growth continues to be mitigated by the impact of generic conversions.
Year-to-date the drug company revenues are only down slightly as anticipated.
Over the course of the year the wave of generic launches has progressed as planned and the Drug Company saw significant gross margin expansion in the quarter even as the 2 largest generics of Zyprexa and Lipitor came off exclusivity.
We look forward to a few more launches still to come in our fourth quarter.
Back in June we held our annual trade show for our independent retail customers and we continued to be impressed with their resilience and their ingenuity in providing personalized patient care in the committee -- community they serve.
Our Good Neighbor Pharmacy members participate actively in the largest independent network of community pharmacies in the U.S.
AmerisourceBergen and our independent customers strongly believe that they play a critical role in health care throughout the country by offering a compelling value proposition to patients and payers alike.
ABDC is focused on ensuring that our network Good Neighbor Pharmacy remains dynamic by continuous investment in programs and services to meet the challenges of community pharmacy today and in the future.
The implementation of our SAP platform continues on schedule with 14 distribution center conversions complete representing over half of our distribution centers and 2/3 of our revenues.
We've made excellent progress and we expect additional conversions occurring in our fourth quarter and the remainder planned through the beginning of fiscal year 2013.
We also continue to strengthen our Canadian operations in support of previously reported new business wins in that market.
We are confident that these and other investments will meaningfully increase the value we bring to all of our customers in the U.S.
and Canada.
As we noted in the press release we continue to participate in negotiations for the distribution contract to serve the newly combined business of Express Scripts and the former Medco.
We believe we are nearing the end of the process and while we don't have a firm date for an announcement we do hope that the decision will be made within the next few weeks.
We continue to be optimistic about our chances to win the business.
However it is a competitive process and we believe Express Scripts will ultimately choose a partner that they believe provides the best overall value.
AmerisourceBergen's Specialty Group had another strong quarter with revenues up 8% driven by another particularly strong performance in third-party logistics and in our vaccine and physician distribution business.
Our Oncology business performed well while facing another very difficult comparison due to the strong performance of the 3 large Specialty generic products in the June quarter last year.
The comparison will ease in the September quarter as Oxaliplatin returns to the market.
ABSG continues to benefit from the launch of a branded ophthalmology product earlier this year continuing to help establish significant market share for the manufacturers.
Our experience with their product demonstrates the potent value of our Specialty franchise.
While our undisputed strength in Specialty is Oncology business we have expanded those capabilities to become an instrumental part of the commercialization strategy for any infusible product launched into the physician marketplace.
As I previously discussed we now have a keen interest going forward in further expanding those capabilities into select global markets.
The acquisition of World Courier has given us not only a premium quality clinical trial logistics services provider but also an international framework upon which to further capitalize on our strengths by driving our specialty logistics consulting commercialization and reimbursement services into other geographic markets.
The integration of World Courier is going very well and we are very excited about the new insights and opportunities that are being discovered as we bring these 2 great organizations together and gain operational exposure to international markets.
Our Consulting Services group continues to have a strong year as demand for commercialization reimbursement and patient support services continues to be robust.
We believe these combined service offerings distinguish AmerisourceBergen in the marketplace provide unmatched value to manufacturers and will be an important driver of our growth going forward.
As manufacturers seek to bring new products to market or expand sales of existing products in a challenging health care environment we believe that demand for these services will only increase.
In terms of financial performance the Consulting Services group delivered a solid quarter while making excellent progress in the further integration of TheraCom which is performing well.
Even setting aside the contribution from TheraCom the Lash Group alone had outstanding results.
As Tim will detail the solid performance across our business contributed to excellent cash flow in the quarter.
Given the strength of our balance sheet we continue to explore opportunities to deploy our capital in order to increase shareholder value including searching for acquisitions that meet the criteria we have in place for quite some time.
They should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel.
They should be within our established core competency and they should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any further contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we continue to be receptive to acquisitions and we continue to be interested in opportunities in pharmaceutical and specialty distribution and services as well as consulting services.
We also remain committed to returning a minimum of 30% of our free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases a hurdle that we have handily exceeded over the last several years.
Looking ahead the results we've had in the first 9 months of our fiscal year put us well on our way to meeting our objectives for the full fiscal year.
As we said in our press release we have narrowed the range of our diluted EPS expectations for the full year to $2.80 to $2.84.
Tim will provide the details on our assumptions for the remainder of the year but I want to highlight that as a result of that tremendous financial flexibility we have repurchased $540 million of our shares in the year when we spent over $800 million on acquisitions and we'll pay down about $400 million in debt in September.
This speaks to the enormous strength and resilience of our business in a year of significant change for AmerisourceBergen and indeed for the health care industry more broadly as well as the quality of our financial planning and financial stewardship.
As you know we are deeply engaged in our business planning process for our fiscal 2013 and we do not yet know the future status of the business we do with our largest customer.
As we noted in our press release however we do expect that new generic launches in both ABDC and ABSG as well as contributions from our recent acquisitions and other favorable items will help drive earnings growth next fiscal year.
The impact of customer consolidation and competitive market dynamics on our margins is expected to offset some of that growth.
As our provider customers across the health landscape prepare for the full implementation of the federal government's health care reform initiatives we are being challenged to help find new ways to reduce costs.
Across the industry big customers are getting bigger whether they are mail order pharmacies acute care networks or independents seeking greater strength in number through joining buying groups.
Over the long term this should lead to an even more stable and resilient industry.
Of course we will continue to manage our own expenses and working capital.
In addition the strength of our balance sheet affords us additional opportunities to drive shareholder value through acquisitions share repurchases and dividends.
With all that in mind our preliminary expectation is for high single digits to low double-digit diluted EPS growth in fiscal 2013.
Over the last year we made important investments in our business with an eye to the future while we continued to focus on helping our customers and ourselves take advantage of the unprecedented growth in generics and the many opportunities in Specialty.
Demand is strong and growing for the core products we distribute and we play an essential role in the pharmaceutical supply chain ensuring the integrity and security of the distribution of life-improving and life-saving therapies.
Our manufacture services businesses help ensure products get to market as efficiently as possible and that patients have access to both traditional medications and the most innovative and complex products.
As cost-containment efforts mount across the health care spectrum our customers increasingly turn to us for help in meeting the challenges of the marketplace without sacrificing patient care.
I take great pride in the energy and creativity our associates bring to our business.
Each day I see the results of their innovative thinking and their dedication to exceeding customer expectations and I'm proud to be their leader.
Here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
And good morning everyone.
As you just heard ABC delivered a solid quarter and through 9 months our performance is tracking well to our financial targets.
The key highlight this quarter was our ability to overcome the oncology generic headwind we've mentioned in the past.
Going into this fiscal year we knew that Q3 would be our toughest EPS comparison.
We consistently called out a $0.33 headwind this year from Specialty generics.
Of this headwind we anticipated about half of the $0.33 would negatively impact the third quarter.
We're pleased that we are able to successfully overcome this Q3 headwind and show solid EPS growth.
Two other highlights for the quarter.
We continued our discipline in terms of managing expenses across the organization and we integrated World Courier into ABC reporting.
Our results include 2 months of their operations.
Before I start with the quarterly financial details let me highlight that in our press release we expanded our disclosures to include detail for 2 reporting segments in addition to our ABC consolidated results.
The Pharmaceutical Distribution segment includes our Drug and Specialty Group operating segments.
The Other segment includes our manufacturer and services businesses which consists of the Consulting and World Courier operating segments.
Upon review of the financial reporting requirements we determined that there was a need to separate drug distribution and manufacturer services due to the nature of their business operations and different revenue growth rates and operating margins.
The disclosure of our 2 reporting segments will improve investor transparency going forward.
Now back to the quarterly details.
I'll cover ABC consolidated results first.
Starting with the top line revenues were $19.8 billion a 1 .9% decrease over last year's quarter.
Drug Company revenues were down about 5% offset by higher Specialty revenues of nearly 8%.
We also had the benefit in our June '12 revenues from 2 of our acquisitions TheraCom and World Courier.
They contributed a combined $300 million of new revenues in the current quarter.
Moving along gross profit was $689 million in the quarter up 5.4% from last June with a gross margin of 3.49%.
Just to remind everyone World Courier is included in our financial results and they have a fairly high gross profit margin due to their best-in-class service model.
World Courier and our other acquisitions contributed nearly $60 million to our gross profit in the current quarter.
Our LIFO charge was $4.7 million in the quarter down $6.7 million from last year.
We expect a LIFO charge of between $12 million and $15 million for the full year down significantly from last year.
Finally the generic benefit we received in the current June quarter from new generic launches and price appreciation was in line with our expectations.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter operating expenses were $375 million up 11.6%.
But this amount includes approximately $50 million of operating expenses related to our recent acquisitions as well as approximately $5 million of non-recurring charges related to the World Courier transaction.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions our operating expenses would have decreased about $10 million quarter-over-quarter.
Our businesses continue to do an excellent job at managing their expenses.
Operating income of $314 million in the quarter decreased about 1% while operating margin was up by 2 basis points compared to last June.
Our third quarter was slowed by the World Courier transaction cost and more importantly the difficult comparison versus the prior year.
Moving below the operating income line and other income we had income of $4.8 million primarily related to an increase in evaluation of a note that was due to ABC from the October 2008 sale of our prior PMSI business.
Interest expense of approximately $25 million in the June quarter increased 33% compared to last year as a result of our $500 million senior notes that we issued back in November.
Our effective income tax rate of 38.3% was slightly higher than last year's 38.2% and is in line with our expected annualized rate of 38.4%.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share in the quarter of $0.71 increased by $0.05 or just under 8% over the last quarter -- over the same quarter last year.
Our EPS benefited from a reduction in our average diluted shares outstanding due to our ongoing share repurchase programs.
Average diluted shares for the quarter were approximately $256 million down just over 8% from last June.
At June 30 2012 we had 251 million outstanding shares.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the June quarter.
Starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution total revenues were $19.4 billion down about 3.3% over last year's quarter.
Drug Company revenues were down about 5% due primarily to lower sales with former Medco and the impact from the loss of a large chain customer last year the  former Longs Drugs.
Slightly over half of the decline came from lower sales to former Medco driven by generic conversions and changes in their book of business.
Without these 2 negative impacts our Drug business would have had growth of 2%.
Also during the quarter the Drug Company anniversaried a large customer win from the prior June quarter.
Specialty Group's revenues increased nearly 8% led by strong performance in 2 of its businesses with growth significantly above market rates ICS our third party logistics business and Besse Medical our vaccine and physician office distribution business.
From a segment standpoint gross profit decreased about $25 million and our gross profit margins slipped somewhat.
Most of the dollar decrease is due to the oncology generics headwind a high-margin contributor last June quarter offset by the contribution from generic Lipitor and Zyprexa both of which had their exclusivity periods end during the June '12 quarter.
We did have other generic launches during the quarter and also gross profit contributions from our specialty businesses.
These positives were offset by the decrease in our revenues and margin pressure.
It should be noted that Drug Company as viewed on its own had gross profit margin expansion of 20 basis points in the June 2012 quarter.
This segment managed operating expenses very effectively especially payroll and benefit expenses as well as external consulting expenses which enabled us to offset some of the gross profit dollars we lost with the oncology generic headwind.
Overall we're very pleased with the operating results for this segment.
Moving to the Other reporting segment which again is Consulting which includes our Packaging business and World Courier.
As mentioned previously our 2 large acquisitions accounted for nearly $300 million of new revenues in the third quarter.
World Courier revenues are tracking well against our expectations which we provided back in our press release that announced the acquisition.
Operating income from the Other segment increased $11 million from last year's quarter.
Of this increase about $8 million is related to our fiscal '12 acquisitions.
The remaining increase is related to our legacy businesses.
I'd like to highlight that our non-recurring charge of about $5 million is not included in our segment level reporting.
For the June quarter the impact of our World Courier acquisition was essentially breakeven due to the transaction costs.
Now let's turn to our consolidated balance sheet and cash flows where trends continue to be favorable.
We generated $92 million of cash from operations in the quarter bringing our 9 month's total to $760 million.
Our businesses continue to focus on working capital.
In fact our cash conversion cycle based on a rolling 4-quarter average improved by 1 day to 1.7 days based in the current June quarter from 2.7 days in the June 2011 quarter.
Capital expenditures were $39 million in the quarter and $128 million for the 9 months.
For the full year we are still tracking to our guidance for CapEx of $200 million.
During the quarter we bought back $186 million of our shares.
For the 9 months we purchased $514 million of shares and this slightly exceeds our March quarter guidance of $500 million.
At June 30 we have $744 million left on our May 2012 share repurchase authorization.
Our cash balance at June 30 was $1.7 billion.
As we've discussed in the past we need approximately $500 million in available cash to account for swings in working capital and to run the business.
As a reminder in mid-September we will be using cash to retire our $400 million 5 5/8% senior notes.
Now let's turn to updated fiscal 2012 guidance.
We now expect our GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.80 to $2.84.
This includes an estimated $20 million of non-recurring costs related primarily to transaction and severance expenses.
With narrowing our EPS range this means that we will have EPS growth of 10% to 12% this year after absorbing the $0.05 negative impact from non-recurring charges.
Revenue.
We continue to expect revenue growth to be flat or up modestly for the full year.
We expect our operating margin expansion to be in the high single digits.
As previously communicated Q4 is our easiest operating income comparable for the year.
Because of this we expect most of our operating margin expansion to be achieved in the fourth quarter.
Free cash flow is still tracking to finish in the $800 million to $900 million range.
Looking ahead.
We are deeply engaged in our business planning process for fiscal 2013 and there are still many moving parts including of course the Express Scripts RFP.
As Steve outlined as large customers consolidate they are seeking better pricing which includes generic pricing.
And as recent contract discussions have demonstrated our customers want us to be part of the solution in helping them meet the economic demands of the new health care landscape.
Our high single digit to low double-digit EPS growth range is based on assumptions on several moving parts and includes possible outcomes on the Express Scripts contract.
Our EPS range is preliminary and we still have quite a bit of work to complete in our planning process but it does incorporate the best information we have right now.
So before I turn it back to Barbara let me reiterate that 9 months into our fiscal year we are well positioned to meet our financial targets for fiscal '12 and we are hard at work on our fiscal '13 plan.
Here is Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Mary.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question was on some of the commentary that you had in the press release and I think you echoed it a bit on your prepared remarks where you sort of talked about competitive pricing pressures and sort of the competitive landscape can you expand a little bit on what you mean there? Is it sort of something that we always see as a persistent part in the business or are there really new dynamics that you're referring to? No.
I think -- thanks for the question Tom.
What we're seeing is that the larger customers are getting larger and we've always said that the larger customers get the biggest -- the best deal and we're seeing some of that.
I think in addition we've got much more generics as a percentage of sales.
Don't forget we have a very diverse customer base almost all of them buy generics from us.
So generics as a percentage of overall portfolio have increased.
So I think we just -- people are looking at their businesses and their potential financial impacts from health care reform and reimbursement pressure and we -- they're expecting us to participate with them in a much tougher future.
So a tougher future where we all have to be more efficient and I think we're just not immune from some of that.
So those are the trends that I'd point out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify your comments on guidance I guess just to ask specifically it sounds like it's early maybe there;s some conservatism because there are so many moving parts.
On Express specifically we all know that's a pretty big moving parts.
Would you be able to meet this guidance range if tomorrow you found out you didn't retain the Medco the legacy Medco business? Hey Tom this is Tim and I'll answer your question this way.
I mean our guidance includes like you said different assumptions on moving parts one of which is Express Scripts and it contemplates both scenarios winning it and losing it.
Again it's Express Scripts and other factors looking out over the next years.
And our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just my question is elaboration on comps around next year.
So -- and I appreciate providing some clarity here with perhaps a tone of trying to be prudent here.
But I guess Steve if we think about a scenario where your largest customer Express chooses not to continue to do business with you or splits the business can you remind us of some of the factors that you would could go through to help mitigate some of those lost revenues from the cost side that would keep you still in the range of guidance? And along with that is there -- could there be a situation where they might be a quarter or 2 of timing mismatch between revenues and costs that could cause you to vary around your guidance ranges? Thanks for the question.
We really are deep in this.
In fact we're going -- the team's going out to visit all our drug regions next weak which really is the start for us in detail in the detailed planning process.
But we had information that -- we have information that we think is material that want -- that we felt was incumbent on us to share with all of you and that's the way AmerisourceBergen is run.
And we're proud of that.
We're not backing off that.
So absolutely if we lose Express Scripts don't forget our current business is -- really a lot of the greenfield that we set up during the merge is really set up to handle big mail order business that we've done with Medco traditionally for as long as I can remember.
I've been with the company 8.5 years.
We've always had the count.
But it's very little expense.
In fact many of the characteristics of this business are what we used to call dock to dock business and of course you remember that very well.
So there's not too much expense there.
And coincidently a lot of the facilities that we service in Medco are our most highly efficient modern facilities but we would -- we absolutely have opportunities to cut down our cost.
And like Tim said this current thinking while it's early really contemplates all the way from us entirely losing this business to winning it including winning the part that we currently do not service based on our basic understanding what the economics can be.
But it honestly is early.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate the reflection there.
And I guess my follow-up is around your LIFO charge.
So Tim you're communicating a reduction in your range of LIFO expectations versus what you had suggested back in April by say a couple of million dollars.
I know at the time you had said you anticipated big impact relative last year with the generic introductions and some moderation in brand price inflation.
What's causing you to further moderate your views on that inflation-based cost? And as you think about your guidance for next year can you give us any sense of general ranges of LIFO charges you're anticipating for fiscal '13? Yes Larry it's probably a little bit early to talk about LIFO for '13.
I mean we're still looking through that.
In terms of LIFO for the June quarter at the end of the June quarter we saw a pretty good brand pricing increased percentages for our top 75 brand drugs a little bit off from last year.
So I mean there is some moderation there in terms of brand pricing.
And we're seeing a little bit steeper generic deflation especially with generic Lipitor and Zyprexa.
So that's driving the change the slight change in our full year LIFO forecast.
But again for next year we're probably -- it just depends on where brand price inflation is.
It's a little bit early.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just wanted to go back I know you touched on some of the changing market industry dynamics and specifically Tim mentioned the generic pricing.
I was just wondering maybe for perspective if you could share your thoughts or recent trends on both the buy side margin that you've seen recently and then maybe separate out the sell side margin just to give us some perspective on your dealings on both with the manufacturer and the customer.
Many times -- I'll just talk about the buy side first.
Many times on the fee-for-service agreements we're really in our third generation and we've dealt with a lot of pharma consolidation and we feel that we've -- the industry on the manufacturer side really understands the value we represent and there's no significant erosion there or anything at all.
Obviously the generic mix at AmerisourceBergen has opportunities to sell generics to almost all of our customers.
As you know we believe we have the most diverse customer base.
It has really been driven by this generic wave and we have set out our whole portfolio in both Drug and Specialty to really recognize the strength in generics.
I hope you would have buy [indiscernible] someday and really capitalize on the opportunity that we have for generics and specialty.
The sell side I think the biggest things we can point to is somewhat of an anxiety of compressed reimbursement and just a lot of consolidation.
I mean just read the headlines.
It's not just that particular one that's on everyone's mind.
It's -- there's just a lot of consolidation.
We have community oncologists for example that are constantly getting a lot bigger and our bigger customers get a better deal.
We have independent customers joining buying groups.
So these are the biggest trends that I can point to.
And we -- I think also there's a lot of marquee customers up for bid.
It's been pretty well-publicized.
VA process definitely the SR process has really kicked up some dust I could say from other customers.
So those -- without being too specific and we don't like to comment on individual contracts we have been in this business a long time.
We understand how to contract with customers and we believe that our best bet is to maintain our key customers and customers that we believe are going to represent us growth in the years ahead.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And just maybe around the preliminary guidance I was hoping maybe you could talk a little bit more about the major swing factors.
Obviously I think we all are well aware of the Express contract but maybe just how you're thinking about other important contracts.
I know you don't want to name names but I think PharMerica is one that's out there.
And then just some of the other major contributing factors what's the assumption around buyback.
It looks like there's obviously some nice contribution from lower interest expense and clearly World Courier next year.
Maybe just some of the pushes and pulls around the guidance range would be helpful.
Yes this is Tim.
In terms of the guidance I mean we're not going to talk specifically about other contracts.
Certainly we made an assumption about Express in there.
And as we start the plan process we always look out over the 12-month horizon of what other contracts we may renew and renegotiate.
So there's an assumption in there about other contracts.
And some of the other things too would be Oxaliplatin and an assumption about how that's going to perform next year.
I mean that's a big unknown.
We don't know how the pricing will stick in the market how many suppliers and so that's a factor.
Certainly we make an assumption about expenses.
And finally in terms of share repurchases the assumption is I think if you look back to what we've done historically the last 2 or 3 years we've been around about the $500 million range so that's probably a pretty safe number to be in at for the -- that's our thinking.
Our next question comes from the line of Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on generics.
And I'm not sure exactly how you're thinking about this with respect to your guidance but Tim you mentioned in your prepared remarks right? You went into fiscal '12 with a $0.33 hole.
Obviously everyone's focused on this generic calendar.
And so as you think about your guidance for fiscal '13 could give us a sense for maybe what the contribution you're expecting in '13 versus '12 what that looks like? Glen I mean we're just again we're early in the plan process.
We don't want to get into specifics.
I mean we do have generics a couple of good ones that launched at the end of our Q4 that carry over into fiscal '13 that will definitely help us.
We're encouraged I mentioned before Oxaliplatin will be back.
We only have it for 6 weeks we get it next year.
There are some unknowns about that.
But overall it's -- you're not going to have a generic Lipitor and Zyprexa but there are some good generics that helped us early in the year.
But again we're not ready to kind of dial in any specific EPS impact numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Maybe I could just ask Steve one follow-up question.
Steve I just want to talk about a comment you made with respect to acquisitions.
You said I think the company is still receptive to the idea of acquisitions.
And it sounds like you're pretty pleased with the progress at both TheraCom and World Courier Group.
And as you think about where you are with respect to those integrations I mean you feel like the company could handle additional acquisitions in fiscal '13 or you kind of going to just see how it goes? Well Glen that's a great question.
I do think that we are operationally well-situated.
And I think actually TheraCom is a very good example.
I mean we've had some work to do at the corporate office yes but obviously we bought this from a well-run company and it was in good shape.
And really most of the integration work is carrying on in our Consulting Services business.
So I think they're very well equipped to run that.
And World Courier was definitely a different expansion for us.
We've had a lot of work to do.
I think Tim pointed out one of the highlights for this year was really getting World Courier into the financial reporting criteria for a public company and that's gone well but we do think that one of the reasons we're investing in this company was the platform opportunity and now when we go consider anything internationally we have local intelligence which is huge.
Local understanding of tax laws of who the good players are who the bad players are.
So we do think that this opens up some attractive markets to us which we started out our release by talking about obviously the obvious fact that pharmaceutical growth in the rest of the world will be higher than the U.S.
So we're not rushing in here.
We don't think that there's any nirvana market or anything.
But it is important to us to drive our Specialty and Consulting practices throughout the world and we think we have leading practices in those areas and a lot of good intelligence and methodologies to share with the rest of the world.
Glen this is Tim.
I'll just say after 100 days we're really pleased with what we have so far and they're performing right on our expectations.
So like I said neutral in Q3 and we expect them to contribute $0.01 or $0.02 in 4.
So again very encouraged this year and looking forward to what they're going to do in '13.
Our next question goes to the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Tim what's left on deal expenses? Will we see much going forward in the numbers? And I think you hinted at it but what was the actual dilution from new generics year-over-year to revenues? The actual dilution -- in terms of revenues? Research Division</strong> Yes in terms of revenue growth rate.
Yes we -- what we said in terms of the Medco I mean Medco was down probably about half.
I mean it's probably in the $500 million or $600 million range that's from our largest customer Medco by itself.
And again not all that is -- some of that is book of business right and some of it is the generic conversions.
In terms of your other question I would say Robert that we don't have much left in terms of World Courier.
I mean I think we're at $17 million in terms of non-recurring costs through Q3.
In my comments I said I thought we'd end up about $20 million.
We probably still have some other non-recurring charges that will come through about $3 million not related to World Courier in Q4.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm going to ask 2 if it's all right.
Regardless of correlation or causation in the past we have seen some rather funky behavior from the manufacturers around major U.S.
elections.
I'm specifically thinking about the September quarter of 2004 where price inflation contracted fairly dramatically.
Have you considered the possibility of that hitting into this election or do you think it's really not in the limelight here? I guess any signal on pharma behavior on pricing here in the near term.
And then I have a follow-up.
The pharma pricing has been a little bit less than last year the price increases but still very robust.
And as I said we're spending more time internationally and everyone's very envious of an environment where we can have price increases.
So it's an excellent thought Eric.
I credit to you for thinking of that.
We'll pay it more attention but we haven't really seen anything concerning.
I think more of the price increases have to do with patent expirations is what we're seeing a trend there some price increases and pricing strategies ahead of large patent expirations.
But as you know we've got some significant launches in this quarter and less exciting year in brand to generic conversion next year but still very robust.
And we will see some impact on brand prices from those.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And my follow-up is related to business transformation the ASP program.
You seem to continue to be ahead of schedule and doing great there.
Just curious if you could give us an update on the incremental benefits to OpEx compared to your original thoughts for the implementation and then whether you might be looking to fiscal '13 and '14 and thinking that there could be some additional juice on that $10 million and $40 million of OpEx savings that you had previously talked about.
Yes I'll let Tim mainly handle this but I'll just say that generally we spend -- we've done most of our capital spend then now it's really operational spend.
So the depreciation is starting to hit us financially.
The consulting expenses the external consulting is definitely an opportunity we've had to reduce cost.
And we've actually done well against our plan for our BT budget for this year but I'll let Tim give you some color on this.
Yes thanks Steve.
Yes Eric actually to Steve's point I mean I just want to make sure I stress this.
I mean we're starting to see a little bit of expense savings now.
Again when I mention external consulting a chunk of that is from our IT department and the fact that we're moving along and deploying SAP really efficiently and effectively.
So we're seeing a little bit now but we're still -- we're not -- we're still believing that the $10 million's appropriate.
That's one of those when we talked about moving parts in our range that's one of the assumptions kind of factored in to our range for '13 and we're still on the $40 million for '14.
So at this point we're just not ready to commit any upside or juice as you called out there.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just wanted to follow up on a comment that you made around the Express Scripts new contract.
You said it would be the best overall value.
I'm just wondering if there's any changes to the types of services that they're looking for versus what you previously provided for Medco? And then just on the follow-up side for that I think I read in a Philadelphia paper some comments around specialty and your growth in specialty and perhaps moving more towards the patient.
I was wondering if maybe you could just also comment on that as well as potentially competing with a customer like the PBM.
Let me just talk about that.
I think our business in specialty is -- and we're talking about this with a customer the other day that everyone has a different definition of specialty.
When AmerisourceBergen says specialty we're really talking about physician administrative products and related services to manufacturers.
I think when a PBM says specialty it usually means patient self-administrative products.
And so I think that that's pretty well defined.
And we actually think that there's a lot of opportunities to collaborate in those areas including with our Good Neighbor Pharmacy network and there's an opportunity to do potentially more specialty in the community.
And we do take our specialty franchise and expertise very seriously there and think that we afford a lot of AmerisourceBergen customers that are interested in this area an opportunity to gain from our expertise including in the policy area and the manufacturer relations area.
The first part of your question had to do with Express Scripts and the overall value we provide.
I think that was more of a comment that the economic deals.
I mean there's a very few companies that are qualified to be the provider to Express Scripts so it's a small universe.
And I think economics is part of it experience is part of it.
And I don't think honestly that any of the qualifications have really materially changed since the start of this process which has been pretty quick if you think about it compared to some of the other ones that we've seen in the recent past.
Research Division</strong> Just so I understand that Steve though so your comments around commercialization of a product and perhaps working in partnership with a PBM you don't view that as an opportunity with a new potential contract with the new Express Scripts or is that a future opportunity but not part of this RFP process? No we see -- I think quite the opposite.
I said I think that our market presences and our market expertises are very complimentary.
But the focus on this has really been on the core economics and I think our idea is obviously to win an account and then we can work on an alignment and future opportunities together.
So that's really what our strategy is there.
The next question comes from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things just drilling down to your assumption for next year.
Oxaliplatin comes back Express is that -- could be a mover for you? We are obviously excited to have Oxaliplatin back and at the end of May we were thrilled that the comp is out now.
We enjoyed the ride but it was good timing to have the comp out.
And August we're going to have the product back but it's going to be very different.
The ASP's pretty high so that's a positive but there's no at risk there's no exclusivity period so we're going to have several manufacturers and we think that the pricing will be very dynamic.
It's probably going to be more akin to again the specialty drugs and they're different than all the solids.
The prices never get quite as low but it's going to be more akin to the expiry of 180-day exclusivity period than it is to a new generic injectable launch is what I'd say.
So while we're expecting with our market share that we have and the expertise we have in oncology we expect them to do very well here as we did with docetaxel and gemcitabine.
We don't expect that you're going to be hearing half of our earnings call be devoted to Oxaliplatin in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The said question if you just look at the totality of your -- for all generics the contribution that you think you'll get next year compared to the contribution [indiscernible] and my specific view is I think from all accounts Lipitor was just off the charts [indiscernible] during the exclusivity period.
Obviously you're losing that.
And we were just having more troubles still at the calendar and thinking is it going to better worse the same next [indiscernible]? Yes I don't think it's going to be quite as robust but Tim you...
Yes John you were breaking up a little bit but I think what you're asking is what next year looks like.
And again we have a little bit of a benefit from our fiscal year with a couple of large generics launching at the end of our Q4.
But overall talking to our generics guys I mean we think it will be a good year.
It's going to probably be a little down compared to this year.
It's tough to replace generic Lipitor and Zyprexa.
But again there are a couple of other ones out there that we're encouraged about.
So down a little bit but not bad.
And again Lipitor because of the class of customers we service here who buys generics from us might not have been as big for us as it was for the other players in the industry.
Just keep that in mind.
And I guess I would like again going back to that I mean let's go back and highlight Steve's comment earlier is a lot of our volume is coming through larger customers on generics.
So again they get their pricing -- they bring us more volumes but they're pricing is a little bit more favorable.
Our last question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just some quick follow-up questions here.
So first of all Steve I think on your last comment around the volume a lot of your generic volume coming from larger customers so can you clarify that a little bit for us? Because when I think about AmerisourceBergen I think really it's going to affect a big portion of your customer base being kind of like the smaller independents.
So when you comment about the generic volumes are you referring to kind of the PBM and the Omnicare of the word? Or is that -- or are you talking about comp like your Specialty segment? So if you can just clarify as to who those large customers are.
And then secondly from data that we've seen recently it seems like that there have been some good generic price increases taking place.
So how are you thinking of generic inflation in the context of your forward outlook? Well 2011 we did very well on generic price inflation.
It's been much more moderate this year.
And I think we even pointed out the numbers because it was significant to the interpretation.
We haven't seen anything as robust this year.
Ricky apologies for your last name [indiscernible] but we do have we believe the most diverse customer base within our industry.
And we are very proud of the strong independent business that we have.
We're also doing more business within the health systems on generics which is a great trend for us given our health systems presence.
We also as you know we never used to talk about generics and specialty we talk about a lot.
So there are a lot of really good trends for us in generics.
But another trend is obviously our large PBM customer doesn't really buy any significant generics from us which we've talked about a lot.
And the larger customers a lot of them say -- when we do -- during our last round of contract negotiations they may have been buying 4% to 7% of their purchases were generics and now it's a lot higher.
And those customers are getting bigger.
And we have to share more of the economics on generics with them because it's a much bigger part they're much higher profile product category to them.
So those are some of the trends that we've been pointing out.
And you're absolutely correct to think of AmerisourceBergen as specialty customers and independent pharmacies and large health system presence and big ultimate start or closed-door pharmacy businesses and that's definitely one of the strengths of us is our diversity in our business that we serve.
Research Division</strong> So in that line just another clarification when you think about CapEx fiscal year '13 and when you say that it might be done a little in terms of generic contribution you're really looking at a basket which includes a specialty generic and Oxaliplatin as well as solid orals rather than separating the 2.
Is that fair? The top line brand to generic conversions and some of this fall -- it's complicated because some of it will have fourth quarter launches that would impact our fiscal year '13 but you know it was $13 billion in fiscal year '12 and it's about $11 billion to $12 billion in fiscal year '13.
And again the quarters move and we're early in our guidance and we're busy looking at it.
But again $11 billion is a very -- is a good year for us.
It's -- if you look at our performance over the last 10 years it's not -- it's a good year.
So yes we look forward to providing more guidance.
We just wanted to give you a benefit of our early look at 2013 and what we know about some large contract negotiations that are going on.
And I hope you appreciate the foresight that we've given you and the approach that we've taken which is always being as transparent and as communicative with our investors as we can.
So I think with that we'll wrap up.
Ricky thanks for your questions.
And Barb you want to make some comments? Do you have a...
Okay I have -- all right [indiscernible]  Okay.
I'm up for the strong close.
All right.
So my strong close is that I recently completed my first full year as CEO of AmerisourceBergen which I'm very proud to serve in this position.
And I unequivocably and very confidently state that ABC's franchise and our place in the industry and our long-term prospects are really outstanding.
We have just repeated -- we have just reported an excellent quarter and we are well on our way to completing a successful 2012.
And I thank you for your attention today.
I believe that ABC's making the right investments to secure our future and we look forward to seeing some of you in September at various conferences.
And of course we'll have our full fiscal year '13 earnings in November.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve.
And just a couple of calendar items.
We'll be at the Robert W.
Baird Health Care Conference in New York on September 5 and at the Morgan Stanley Conferences also in New York on September 11.
So that concludes our call for today.
I'll now turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay today after 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time through August 2 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 253858.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
The access code is 253585.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And also as a reminder today's teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time we will turn the conference call over to your host Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2011.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I just want to say a few words about the storm we have all experienced over the last few days.
Our thoughts are with all of those who have lost loved ones lost their homes and have otherwise been severely impacted by the storm.
I want to thank our ABC associates who have worked tirelessly to ensure that we would continue to be able to meet the needs of our customers and the patients we all ultimately serve throughout this difficult week.
Turning now to our results.
I'm delighted to report solid results for our fourth quarter and our fiscal year 2012.
In my first full fiscal year as CEO we overcame a challenging year-over-year comparison while executing very well on generic conversions.
We renewed and expanded our contract with our largest customer we integrated 4 acquisitions and we returned funds in excess of our free cash flow to shareholders.
In the September quarter our revenues were down 4% to $19.5 billion but our GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were up 23% to $0.65.
For the fiscal year our revenues were down about 0.5% to $79.5 billion and our earnings per share were up 10% to $2.76 which excludes $0.04 earned by AndersonBrecon.
I'm very pleased with the performance that AmerisourceBergen associates delivered in fiscal 2012.
We executed extremely well against our key strategies of generics and specialty and we are well positioned heading into fiscal 2013.
In addition we made important investments in our more forward-looking strategies of expanding our manufacture services businesses and beginning to build out our international platform for growth.
This morning we also announced that our Board of Directors approved a 62% increase in our annual dividend and authorized a new $750 million share repurchase program.
We completed a $650 million accelerated share repurchase program during this quarter bringing our repurchases for the fiscal year to nearly $1.2 billion.
We are confident undertaking these capital deployment initiatives due to the tremendous underlying strength and resilience of our business.
Since the merger that created AmerisourceBergen we have generated free cash flow of $8.8 billion.
Of this amount we have returned $6.6 billion to investors by share repurchases and $600 million through dividends.
In total we returned 82% of our 11-year free cash flow to our shareholders.
Truly outstanding performance for our business.
I am very proud that in fiscal 2012 we generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow repaid $450 million in debt completed nearly $800 million in acquisitions and repurchased over $1 billion of our stock.
And heading into next year we continue to have excellent financial flexibility.
Our high-quality balance sheet combined with our ability to generate cash affords us the opportunity to continue to invest in our business find our strategic initiatives and return value to shareholders.
Our legacy of outstanding financial stewardship is one of the bedrocks in the foundation of AmerisourceBergen and one which gives us a firm footing upon which to grow our business in the years ahead.
Another important aspect of our financial stewardship has been our careful management of our existing assets investing in carefully selected acquisitions and divesting of assets that do not serve our long-term objectives.
This morning we announced that we are pursuing the sale of AndersonBrecon our contract pharmaceutical packaging business.
While AndersonBrecon is a market leader has excellent customer relationships talented and dedicated associates has performed well and is on a growth trajectory we have not realized significant synergies between AndersonBrecon and our other lines of business.
We remain committed to expanding our remaining manufacture services businesses with a particular focus on expanding our Consulting Services and specialty third-party logistics business in the U.S.
and in select global markets.
The acquisitions we've made this year support those efforts and we've made excellent progress on the integrations and all 4 are performing as expected.
The 2 largest acquisitions TheraCom and World Courier made modest contributions to our earnings in fiscal 2012 and are expected to contribute more meaningfully in fiscal 2013.
TheraCom is part of one of our fastest growing business units the Consulting Group.
And we expect the demand for the services that this group provides will increase as manufacturers seek to bring products to market as efficiently as possible and to demonstrate the value of the products in the marketplace.
The integration of World Courier is also progressing very well and we are pleased with the performance of its core business as it is transitioned to becoming part of AmerisourceBergen.
As these 2 businesses have come together our cultures and our vision for the future have aligned seamlessly.
And I'm more excited than ever about the potential we now have to begin to expand our marketing specialty 3PL consulting and other manufacture services outside the U.S.
After a year of substantial change I believe we are very well positioned to continue to add to our legacy of success and innovation in the years ahead.
Our diverse revenue base continues to position us well to benefit from organic growth across the entire spectrum of pharmaceutical care.
While overall pharmaceutical market growth will likely continue to be slow in calendar 2013 IMS Health sees compounded annual sales growth in the U.S.
in the range of 1% to 4% and 4% to 6% worldwide through 2016.
We are part of a strong and stable industry and we have demonstrated both resilience and solid performance in a variety of economic and market situations.
As changes continue to roll across the U.S.
healthcare markets for both our manufacture and healthcare provider customers the opportunity for us to provide value should continue to increase.
One of the hallmarks of the U.S.
market is the quality of our relationships wholesalers have with pharmaceutical manufacturers.
And we continue to put an emphasis on looking for meaningful ways to provide additional services across the supply channel in order to help them meet the challenges of today's changing healthcare landscape.
Just last week I served on an international wholesale panel at the IFPW the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Wholesalers biannual meeting.
I was again reminded by listening to the comments of others on the panel about the robust and transparent relationship we are privileged to enjoy with both our provider and manufacturer customers here in the U.S.
Turning now to our 2 operating segments.
Tim will provide the detailed financial results but I would like to highlight a few key trends.
In the pharmaceutical distribution segment AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a truly stellar year delivering strong performance on generics in a historic year for new launches.
The Drug Company's performance helped overcome a $0.33 headwind in EPS due to a difficult comparison with specialty generic performance in the prior year.
In addition strong results in our U.S.-based business offset disappointing results in our much smaller Canadian distribution business where reimbursement changes have challenged the market and further unforeseen reimbursement cuts are on the horizon.
In addition we continue to work out some issues with the implementation of our large retail contract.
While the distribution market in Canada is challenged the small but growing specialty business in Canada continues to gain traction.
Drug Company revenues in the September quarter declined 8% due in large part to a larger than expected decline in sales of our largest customer as well as the previously reported loss of a large retail customer beginning last September.
For fiscal year 2012 the Drug Company's revenues are down 2% somewhat lower than anticipated.
However when adjusting for nonrecurring items the Drug Company demonstrated disciplined expense management gross margin expansion and significant operating margin expansion.
In addition we renewed and expanded the contract with our largest customer and began to serve a significantly higher volume with that customer beginning on October 1.
As you would expect with ABC the conversion has proceeded very well and we are excited about the relationship we are developing with our largest customer.
Given the difficult generic comparison we will have in the Drug Company in fiscal year 2013 we are optimizing our resources to ensure that they are deployed and utilized in the most efficient manner possible.
Some of those efforts resulted in the severance charges we recorded in our fourth quarter.
One example is that we are leveraging some of the efficiencies gained through the SAP implementation particularly in back-office administrative areas which has allowed us to reduce the numbers of our Drug Company operating regions from 4 to 3 regions.
As you would expect we continue to look at ways to streamline our operations but we never sacrifice our ability to provide world-class service to our customers.
Another example of where we continue to invest in our Good Neighbor Pharmacy program which is the largest independent network of community pharmacists in the U.S.
We believe our pharmacy customers play a critical role in the healthcare throughout the country by offering a compelling value proposition to patients and payers alike.
We negotiate on behalf of GNP members to ensure that they continue to have access to third-party networks.
Looking ahead we are working with GNP member stores in order to help them ensure they are able to take full advantage of the expansion of healthcare under the health reform legislation.
The Drug Company has performed admirably over the last few years while the overall market has been flat to down.
The implementation of our SAP platform continues on schedule with 20 distribution center conversions complete and 6 remaining.
We have made excellent progress and we expect the remaining conversions to be completed by the end of the March quarter in 2013.
We are confident that these and other investments will continue to meaningfully increase the value we bring to all of our customers.
The Drug Company is and always will be the foundation of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.
The excellent consistent financial and operating performance it has achieved over the years and the resilience it has demonstrated are hallmarks of the value we provide.
Furthermore the Drug Company is a key driver in our ability to generate tremendous cash flow and as such enables us to fund our growth initiatives.
We take deep pride in this business and while its performance in fiscal 2013 won't be quite as strong as it has been historically we expect it to return to its normal growth rate in fiscal 2014 and beyond.
AmerisourceBergen's Specialty Group had another strong quarter with revenues up 6% in the quarter which led to record revenue for the full fiscal year 2012.
Revenue growth was driven by another particularly strong performance in third-party logistics and in our vaccine and physician distribution business.
Our oncology business performed well as a difficult comparison East [ph].
We were however somewhat disappointed in the pricing of our Oxaliplatin during its release in mid August.
ABSG discontinued a benefit however from the launch of a branded ophthalmology product earlier this year continuing to help establish significant market share for the manufacturer.
Our success in the ophthalmology market demonstrates the unique value proposition of our specialty franchise while our undisputed strength in specialty is our oncology business we've expanded those capabilities to become the instrumental part of the commercialization strategy for any complex product launched into the physician marketplace and beyond.
Our Consulting Services group achieved strong results for the fiscal year as demand for commercialization reimbursement and patient support services continues to be robust.
We believe these combined service offerings distinguish AmerisourceBergen in the marketplace and will be an important driver of our growth going forward.
As manufacturers seek to bring new products to market or expand sales of existing products in a challenging healthcare environment we believe the demand for these services will only increase.
In terms of financial performance the Consulting group delivered a solid quarter while making excellent progress in the integration of TheraCom which is performing well.
Even setting aside the contribution from TheraCom the Lash group alone had outstanding results.
As Tim will detail the solid performance across our business once again contributed to excellent cash flow in the quarter.
Given the strength of our balance sheet we continue to explore opportunities to deploy our capital in order to increase shareholder value including searching for acquisitions that meet the criteria we've had in place for quite some time.
That should increase our value offering to existing customers both up and down the channel.
That should be within our established core competency and that should increase shareholder value.
While we have not contemplated any further contribution from acquisitions in our guidance we continue to be receptive to acquisitions and we continue to be interested in opportunities in the pharmaceutical and Specialty Distribution Services as well as Consulting Services.
We also remain committed to returning a minimum of 30% of our free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases a hurdle that we have handily exceeded over the last several years.
Looking ahead our performance in fiscal 2012 sets us up very well for continued success in fiscal 2013.
As we stated in our press release our guidance for GAAP EPS growth from continued operations in fiscal 2013 is to be in the range of $3.06 to $3.16 an 11% to 14% increase over the $2.76 that we earned in fiscal 2012 excluding of course the contribution from AndersonBrecon.
Tim will provide the details and our assumptions for next year but I want to highlight that we continue to have tremendous financial flexibility; we are undertaking initiatives across our entire business to help ensure that we are as efficient and effective as we can possibly be.
The enormous strength and resilience of our business in a year of significant change for AmerisourceBergen and for the healthcare industry more broadly reinforces my confidence in the long-term prospects for our business.
Demand is strong and growing for the core products we distribute and we play an essential role in the pharmaceutical supply chain ensuring the integrity and security of the distribution of life-improving and lifesaving therapies.
Over the last year we've made important investments in our future while we continue to focus on helping our customers and ourselves take advantage of the unprecedented growth in generics and the many opportunities in specialty.
Our distribution business is not only a cornerstone of AmerisourceBergen but it's a cornerstone in a stable and growing industry.
Our manufacture services businesses help ensure products get to market as efficiently as possible and that patients have access to both traditional medications and the most innovative and complex products.
Lastly I believe that we have built up an exceptional management team with a diverse background and deep experience that is excited about the opportunities we have in front of us.
The knowledge passion and creativity our associates bring to the market each day set us apart from our peers.
I thank them all for the work they do to continue to drive innovative solutions in a dynamic environment.
I am proud to be their leader.
Here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We had a solid finish to what has been a good year.
We're pleased with our financial results and we have momentum entering our new fiscal year.
So let's start with our review of fiscal 2012.
We will compare our performance against the guidance we gave back in July when we discussed Q3 results.
Our revenue expectation for fiscal 2012 was flat to modest growth.
We were off a little bit.
We finished down about 0.5%.
This was due primarily to sales to our largest customer being lower than what we estimated.
This decrease was offset by revenues from our 2 large acquisitions TheraCom and World Courier.
In fiscal 2012 our operating margin expanded by 10 basis points which was slightly above our expectation.
This is the seventh consecutive year we expanded our operating margins.
Free cash flow.
We have $1.1 billion in free cash flow for the year and this exceeded our expectation of $800 million to $900 million.
Finally our GAAP diluted EPS ended at $2.80 a 10% increase over our GAAP EPS from fiscal 2011.
This EPS amount includes $0.04 from AndersonBrecon which we classified as a discontinued operation.
As Steve mentioned we plan to divest the business within the next 6 months.
You may recall that our guidance assumed $20 million of nonrecurring charges for the fiscal year.
Our $2.80 GAAP EPS includes $31 million of nonrecurring charges.
That's $11 million higher than we expected and the equivalent of $0.03.
Excluding this $0.03 negative impact our EPS results for the fiscal year would have been $2.83.
One more important item cash deployment.
As Steve mentioned our board approved a 62% increase in our annual dividend per share to $0.84.
Why do we increase our dividend now? Three reasons: 1 the long-term financial outlook for our core distribution business continued to be very positive; 2 we expect growing contributions from our recent acquisitions; and 3 we continue to generate consistent significant free cash flow.
We were pleased that we can provide added value to shareholders.
Looking ahead we expect to grow our annual dividend approximately in line with our earnings growth.
We believe that our business will generate enough excess capital to continue with meaningful share repurchases and at the same time to have flexibility to complete acquisitions in the strategic areas that we've discussed in the past.
We also announced that we completed an accelerated share repurchase for nearly $650 million about 17 million shares.
Additionally our board approved a new share repurchase authorization of $750 million.
We still have about $97 million remaining on our May 2012 authorization.
In total we have approximately $850 million remaining on share repurchase authorizations.
Now let's move to our fourth quarter results starting with the top line.
Revenues were $19.5 billion down 4.4% compared to last year's quarter.
Drug Company revenues were down about 8% and were partially offset by specialty revenues that were up nearly 6%.
Our acquisitions contributed a combined $335 million of new revenues.
Gross profit was approximately $720 million in the quarter up 19% from last September with a gross margin of 3.70%.
Our acquisitions primarily World Courier contributed $76 million in the current quarter.
We also benefited from a $15 million of antitrust settlements.
We consider this income nonrecurring.
Finally in the quarter we had a LIFO credit of $11 million.
This credit reduced our fiscal year LIFO charge to about $1 million less than we expected.
2 factors contributed to our fourth quarter LIFO credit: 1 our sales of brand inventory were especially high at the end of the quarter due to the purchasing patterns of a few large customers; and 2 our mix of inventory was weighted heavier towards generic inventory at our LIFO calculation date.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter operating expenses were $423 million up 15%.
This amount includes $65 million related to the operating expenses of our acquired companies.
Also included is $29 million of nonrecurring charges related to optimizing our field operations and corporate organization.
As you've come to expect from ABC we continue to manage our expenses tightly.
Excluding acquisitions and nonrecurring costs our comparable operating expenses would have decreased about $10 million or 3% compared to the same quarter last year.
Operating income of $296 million in the quarter increased about 25%.
Our operating margin was 1.52% up by 35 basis points compared to last September quarter.
When excluding the nonrecurring items from both the fourth quarter 2012 and 2011 our operating income is up $44 million or 16%.
This growth demonstrates our strong performance in our core drug business as well as contributions from our acquisitions.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense of approximately $24 million in the September quarter increased 22% compared to last year.
This is a result of issuing new Senior Notes back in mid November.
As a reminder we repaid $400 million of debt in September 2012.
Moving to income taxes.
We had an increase in our effective income tax rate in the current quarter to 41.6%.
This rate is higher than our normal tax rate of 38.6%.
The primary reason for the increase is that we recorded a tax valuation allowance against our Canadian drug distribution business due to their operating loss.
Going forward we expect our ABC annualized tax rate to be about 39%.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share in the quarter is $0.66 increased by $0.12 or 22% over the same quarter last year.
In the current quarter again the negative impact of nonrecurring items was $0.03.
Our EPS benefited from a 9% reduction in average diluted shares outstanding.
At September 30 2012 we had 235 million outstanding shares.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the September quarter.
Starting with pharmaceutical distribution.
Total revenues were $19.1 billion down just under 6% versus the same quarter last year.
Drug Company revenues were down about 8%.
The decrease was due to 3 primary drivers: 1 branded generic conversions offset by very strong brand price appreciation; 2 lower sales to our largest customer; and 3 the negative impact from the loss of the former Longs Drugs last year about $400 million.
Specialty Group's revenues increased 6% led by strong performance in 3 of its businesses with growth significantly above market rates especially medical ASD and ICS.
Pharmaceutical distribution gross profit increased about $33 million when comparing the fourth quarter 2012 to the same quarter last year.
And our gross profit margin increased 35 basis points to 3.23%.
Most of the increase is due to our Drug Company business where we had strong generic revenue percentage growth in the low teens due in part to 3 meaningful launches in the quarter.
This segment also benefited from the LIFO credit.
As expected we did see gross profit dollars associated with specialty oncology generic drugs decrease substantially specifically gemcitabine and docetaxel a negative impact of $0.06.
We did have a minimal positive impact from the relaunch of Oxaliplatin below expectations due to market pricing.
This segment managed operating expenses very effectively.
Overall expenses decreased approximately $11 million or 3%.
We continue to review spending in our distribution businesses to ensure we're at appropriate levels.
Pharmaceutical distribution operating income grew 16% or nearly $44 million to $308 million in the fourth quarter 2012.
The increase was primarily the result of strong performance in our Drug Company business which offset disappointing results in our Canadian distribution business.
Overall we're very pleased with the operating results for this segment.
Moving to the Other reporting segment.
As a reminder this segment is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
TheraCom our November 2011 acquisition is included in Consulting Services.
As discussed previously our AndersonBrecon Packaging business has been excluded since this business is reported now as a discontinued operation.
Segment revenues increased nearly $350 million to $422 million in the fourth quarter 2012.
As mentioned previously World Courier and TheraCom accounted for nearly $335 million of this increase.
The revenues are tracking well against our expectations.
Operating income increased $21 million for the same quarter.
About $6.5 million of the increase is related to an intangible impairment expense we incurred in the fourth quarter 2011 in one of our consulting businesses.
Our acquisitions contributed about $0.02 to our Q4 2012 EPS.
Let's switch to our fiscal year performance.
I'll highlight a few key points.
Back on Investor Day we discussed the large negative headwind from Oxaliplatin that we'd have this fiscal year about $100 million of lost gross profit.
Our Drug Company business more than offset this headwind.
This year they launched over 30 generic drugs negotiated a number of sizable contracts managed expenses tightly and implemented SAP in 16 DCs.
On a fiscal year basis Drug Company excluding Canada grew their operating income margin a very strong 18 basis points.
And finally it was a record revenue year for our Specialty business $16.4 billion of total revenues a lot to be pleased about.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows.
Capital expenditures were $164 million for the year lower than expectations as a large DC automation project is shifting to fiscal 2013.
Free cash flow was $1.1 billion better than expected.
This is our ninth straight year where free cash flow exceeded our net income from continuing operations.
The increase was primarily due to improved committed capital at our specialty business where certain manufacturers provide extended payment terms.
Our gross debt to total debt in capital ratio at the end of September was 37% which is slightly higher than our target range of 30% to 35%.
This is due to accelerating our share repurchases.
This percentage will gradually decrease during the year.
During the fiscal year we bought back just under $1.2 billion of our shares.
This amount far exceeds our original guidance of $400 million for the year.
Our philosophy has consistently been to upsize return to shareholders if we haven't otherwise deployed our capital and when market conditions permit.
We're pleased that we continued with this practice in fiscal 2012.
Our cash balance of about $1.1 billion at September 30 leaves us with financial flexibility as we move forward.
Now let's turn to expectations for 2013.
EPS.
We expect GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $3.06 to $3.16.
This translates to EPS growth of 11% to 14%.
We're using $2.76 as our base EPS.
This number excludes the $0.04 from the AndersonBrecon discontinued operations.
Revenues.
We expect revenue growth to be in the 6% to 9% range driven primarily by our new Express Scripts contract.
This customer will represent just over 20% of our revenues.
As a comparison the former Medco represented nearly 17% of our revenues in fiscal 2012.
Operating income.
As discussed in the past our Express Scripts business is for brand drugs and is bulk-like in nature meaning that the business has very low operating income margins.
Our operating income margin assumption also includes the loss of a large food/drug combo retail buying group during the year and most importantly fewer oral solid generic launches.
In terms of operating expenses excluding nonrecurring expenses we expect operating expenses to increase 12% to 14% in fiscal 2013.
However most of this increase is related to the full year impact of World Courier.
Excluding this impact growth in OpEx is primarily due to cost to service our large customer and general wage and benefit inflation offset by cost savings from our network and corporate optimization efforts.
Again our current assumptions do not include any meaningful nonrecurring expenses for fiscal 2013.
The items that I just covered all impact our operating income and margin.
For fiscal 2013 we expect our operating income dollars to grow 3% to 5% while our operating income margin will decrease in the low double-digit basis point range probably in the low teens.
Free cash flow.
We expect that our free cash flow will be in the $750 million to $850 million range.
Capital expenditures should be in the $180 million range with less ERP spending but new spending on a number of business initiatives.
Share repurchases.
We are assuming at least $200 million in share repurchases.
The lower amount is due to ABC completing an ASR in Q4 2012.
Let's transition and cover high-level expectations on our segment.
We can start with pharmaceutical distribution.
For the Drug Company we expect revenues to grow in the 6% to 9% range again due primarily to the new Express Scripts contract.
On the Specialty side we expect to grow in the 7% to 9% range which is considerably above market growth.
This includes solid growth in our oncology drug business.
Our segment operating income margin will decline in a mid double-digit basis point range.
Again this decrease is due to our new Express Scripts contract that significantly increases our mix of lower margin brand business the impact of previously discussed customer contract renewals and fewer generics launching year-over-year.
It is important to note that after we anniversary the impact of the Express Scripts contract we expect to return to our normal pace of annual operating income margin expansion.
Moving to the Other segment.
Revenues will increase significantly as we have World Courier for the full year versus the 5 months in fiscal year 2012.
This should benefit the Other segment by about $300 million.
Combined the Consulting group and World Courier are expected to contribute 8% to 10% of our total operating income in fiscal 2013.
As a reminder we do not give quarterly guidance but I will say that directionally our EPS growth will be higher in quarters 3 and 4.
As you know Q2 is traditionally our strongest EPS quarter but we will have a tough comparative against Q2 2012 due to the contributions from generic Lipitor and Zyprexa.
I know that our comments today were longer than usual due to all the moving parts so thanks for your attention.
And let me finish by reiterating.
We're pleased with our results for the quarter and the year.
We expect solid performance in fiscal 2013 in a challenging year for generic launches.
And we're working on a number of internal initiatives to streamline and strengthen our business.
The future continues to look very bright for AmerisourceBergen.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Go ahead please Tony.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question in queue from Bob Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I heard somewhere you cited the larger purchase of branded drugs by a particularly large customer as the reason for the LIFO charge issue I guess.
And I'm just kind of curious if it's a bulk customer predominantly does that -- purchases by that customer impact your LIFO assumptions on any particular year? Bob this is Tim.
No I cited 2 reasons: larger brand purchases by certain customers a few of our government customers in particular; and then also just a mix of inventory between brand and generic generic being a little bit heavier.
That impacted.
And then in terms of next year we expect to get back to a modest LIFO charge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it didn't sound like that in itself was a particular… No it wasn't.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just broadly speaking maybe for Steve what kind of competition are you seeing from a business model perspective given your share on the oncology market what kind of new entrants or challenges are you seeing in that business? Well we've been the leader in oncology for several years and we still retain that position.
I think we have really built up some unique drivers for value with our physician services organizations.
I think we've also built out the non-oncology businesses.
I'm very proud of what we've built out in the non-oncology business and the way that we've integrated a lot of the services say from a Lash and Xcenda and increasingly a World Courier.
And the format of businesses we do with new manufacturers in our ICS and a lot of the work we do with compliance in Lash.
So we've got a great franchise and we intend to support it.
Just quickly on oncology I'll tell you one of the things we're focusing on is what we’re calling hybrid models which is more oncology taking place within a larger health system and we believe we've got a dynamic role to play there as well.
Research Division</strong> Are others making any type of inroads with different models though? I think obviously we've got one company that's trying to gain a foothold in specialty.
I don't want to comment about their strategies but we like where we are.
We believe we've got the largest community-based oncology customers that have been loyal customers for a long time.
And those discussions tend to be very promising and a lot of commitment to remaining within AmerisourceBergen.
That will come from Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Colleen Lang on for Tom.
Generics are clearly strong in the quarter.
Can you talk about the performance of generics in Q4 relative to your expectations and what went better? Well we really do -- we do focus on our generic offering I mean we have really 2 generic offerings the ProGen which is our preferred formulary.
And we have many customers that take advantage of that.
And then we also have our non-ProGen generic customers and both segments were very robust.
We executed as expected.
I don't know Tim if you have any color you'd like to add.
I would say we had a couple of generics that launched in the third quarter that rolled in the fourth quarter plus we had some launches in Q4 that really helped us.
And then -- and let's not forget we have a good base of our generics where we saw expansion.
That provides benefit.
And utilization is also up.
So I think it's really all those things together really help grow our generic top line.
In my comments I said in the low teens we saw revenue increase.
So it was a really good quarter for generics for the Drug Company.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the branded side it seemed like branded inflation was particularly strong throughout your fiscal 2012.
What's your expectation for '13? Thanks Colleen.
It was.
It was a strong year.
In fact with our mix of inventory it was a record year for brand inflation and we expect that to continue.
Our assumption next year is in the brand inflation in the 8% to 9% range.
The next question in queue will come from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Steve on the decision to divest the Packaging business I was hoping you could share your thoughts in a little bit more detail there.
I've always understood this to be a pretty steady high-margin business.
I know it's not “a Specialty or Distribution ” but just wondering if you could share your thoughts on divesting this business now.
Bob you're absolutely right.
The contract packaging business has been successful and has grown significantly since we established it really by acquiring Anderson several years ago.
The business has always operated as a separate entity while under the ABC umbrella.
And while we've been pleased with its performance we've not really realized the many synergy opportunities between contract packaging and our other lines of business.
The way that we've been running the company since I've been CEO I think we really do look at the company holistically even more so as we react to the marketplace.
So I think as we've done some deep analysis they aren't really enough touch points on the overall business development with manufacturers to warrant maintaining this as a separate entity going forward.
And also the business is growing and I think the capital needs there are going to increase and we just see that we've got better opportunities to invest our capital going forward.
Research Division</strong> On the capital deployment going forward actually is there any change in strategy? If we think about the lower buyback that's baked in for next year it looks like the free cash flow $750 million to $800 million you have $400 million from the buyback and the dividend.
Any comments on the use of the rest of that cash going forward? Well I'll just tell you.
Look at what we've done this year and I could not be more proud.
I mean $800 million in acquisitions.
I think we're performing well on those acquisitions.
Yet we did well over $1 billion in share buybacks we're increasing our dividends.
So there's just not much not to like about how ABC uses our capital.
I think we are -- among the best users of capital that you'll find anywhere out there.
We will continue to contain to maintain our flexibility and use our balance sheet appropriately.
Tim.
Yes and I would just echo what Steve said.
I think -- I don't think you can read anything into that.
I mean we -- as I mentioned in my comments Bob and we’re very consistent.
When we have excess cash we return it in some form or fashion.
So that's our guidance for now.
And we think it's pretty reasonable compared with -- in relation to the ASR.
And as we go through the year we'll just -- we'll see how we're tracking.
That will come from Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just want to talk to you a little bit about the pricing environment.
Sort of last quarter you gave us somewhat of a candid assessment of how you view the sell side pricing environment.
And I'm just kind of curious now that you've had another quarter under your belt we've seen some contracts come and go I'm just kind of curious if you could give us maybe an updated assessment.
Well a couple of things.
I mean we typically -- about 25% to 30% of our business is up for renewal each year.
And last quarter was really unique because literally the next week we were able to announce a exciting new contract with Express Scripts.
And that was truly unique if you look at the timing of what we were facing then.
So in the 3 months since we've last been on a call with you we've been through several contract negotiations and honestly they've all gone very much as expected.
There's been one exception which is with a shared customer but I would say that things have really stabilized and that the industry really remains fairly competitive.
We're stable with most large customers not really showing an inclination to change wholesalers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one follow-up on the specialty pharmacy side as well as sort of the Other segment.
Steve could you maybe give us your view on kind of how we should think about that portion of your business from a growth rate perspective? And as a look out through 2013 and 2014 sort of any potential generic launches on the specialty side that can even come close to sort of rivaling what we saw on OxiGemzar [ph] and Taxotere? Well you said specialty pharmacy.
So we more are characterized by Specialty Distribution.
There is a distinction and specialty pharmacy of course is largely carried out by some of the retail chains but most notably the PBMs.
And those are often customers for us within AmerisourceBergen Drug Company.
But there is more and more of this specialty product management taking place within large health systems within mail order infusion centers.
So our specialty pharmacy franchise specialty distribution franchise is a very important characteristic for AmerisourceBergen.
I think the way we understand this business both in the community and health system setting and what we call our ultimate care setting is really unique characteristics and differentiators for AmerisourceBergen.
And I think that it leads to like some outsized performance in areas that you don't traditionally expect us to benefit from especially like in our health systems area where we've done very well.
And I think you see more and more specialty therapies being administered in a health system setting.
So again we keep on adding to this franchise.
We've got excellent leadership here and you'll continue to see us investing and maintaining market leadership there.
That will come from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tim I had a question around your free cash flow guidance.
If I look back to last year the initial guidance was $800 million to $900 million and you clearly did $1.1 billion.
Can you maybe just talk about the $750 million to $850 million this year? Is there any impact because of the relationship with Express Scripts and inventory? Or is there anything else that's a onetime item for free cash flow? Thanks Lisa.
Yes we do have a slight impact.
I mean on the new contract our terms our AR terms are slightly lower than what we had with the former Medco.
So that's probably a 1- to 2-day impact.
So that's part of the reason why you see that cash a little bit lower.
But as always we're going to work hard to get that up so -- but that's the reason.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-on to that just trying to understand 2 things.
One is there anything else of note in the new relationship with Express Scripts? And then secondly Steve I just had a question for you on this new hybrid model with the hospitals.
Is there any change in the way that you're being reimbursed or any different level of risk or anything else you're taking on in your specialty distribution business? Tim you go first and then I'll...
Yes.
No in terms of -- no I don't think there's anything else.
In terms of the Express Scripts your first question about anything else in that Express Scripts contract no I don't think there's anything else really to call out.
I mean I think we've hit the highlights.
Again it's pretty much all brand virtually brand and it's a little bit over 20% of our expected revenues.
Look we had a great relationship with Medco and I think we've made a very profound transition to now servicing the overall Express Scripts contract which we're pleased to be the wholesaler and we will continue to work on the strategic relationship.
Of course I think the priority for both organizations has been really working on implementing the contract.
And now we can look forward to broadening and strengthening the relationship over the next couple of quarters.
The hybrid model was the second part of your question.
And no I think it's just really taking advantage of a lot of the services that we offer to community oncologists and allowing those services to transition into more of a hospital setting.
And I think it's also getting the manufacturers some of the information that they lack on the patient side and the protocol and formerly management side that we've been able to give them in the community settings.
So you're seeing us make investments there but we think that that will preserve some of the unique financial as well as therapeutic characteristics of our oncology business.
So very important for us to continue to move with the markets.
And again a great example of how we're looking at the company very holistically and less hard lines between say specialty and drug.
That will come from Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the lost account that you acknowledged on the call today the regional food/pharmacy combo GPO business I guess.
I'm curious if you could help us understand the ultimate revenue impact compared to your -- what your expectations would have been had you retained that.
And you did mention that as one of the contributors to the operating margin compression so should we assume that it's a higher operating margin contract than perhaps your overall book.
And then finally still sticking with that contract.
In terms of the phasing of that loss I know sometimes with GPO contracts you don't lose all of the business on Day 1.
Can you give us some sense on the phasing of the revenue rolling off? Sure Eric.
I think that is -- if I kind of write that as a 3-part question I mean really that first one I mean we're not prepared to size that contract.
I mean it was a -- it's a large contract.
It's got a nice mix of brand and generic business.
So again you could definitely say it's more profitable with that brand mix.
Part of it we'll have for about 1/2 the year in total.
So it doesn't entirely roll off in Q1.
We have it through about March quarter so -- but yes it definitely impacts -- it's definitely an impact to our margin.
Research Division</strong> So Tim I'm sorry I guess I'll go to Part 4 here when you say that you'll have the contract through March the total contract or a piece of it? We'll have a piece of it.
We'll have a piece of it.
There's a piece that comes off in November and the remaining piece will come off in March I think it's about 60-40.
That will come from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just provide us some more color around fiscal year '13 guidance? And what I'm basically trying to understand is what's the contribution of acquisitions? I think you mentioned that operating income in fiscal year '13 is going to grow 3% to 5% but that 8% to 10% is going to come from acquisition so I just wanted to clarify that comment.
And then I have one follow-up question.
Yes Ricky let me answer your question this way.
Between World Courier and TheraCom I mean we'll have World Courier for the full year so that...
[Technical Difficulty] Okay.
Ladies and gentlemen please standby as we reestablish the host line.
Ladies and gentlemen your line -- the host line is now reestablished.
[Operator Instructions] Ricky sorry yes we lost power.
Our building went dark so apologies everyone.
Getting back to your first question Ricky I think you're asking about impact of acquisitions.
I'll answer it this way World Courier and TheraCom should be about 4% to 5% of our EPS in terms of fiscal '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So 4% to 5% of EPS is from the acquisition.
And I think that you provided a comment on the EPS; it was around 3% to 5% from EBIT.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- on your margin expansion guidance and just kind of like help me better understand the numbers because when I think about your revenue guidance and your EBIT guidance I get to EBIT margin contraction in the mid single digits versus your comments around low double digits.
So if you could just help me reconcile the difference maybe you should just -- corporate versus drug distribution.
Yes Ricky I guess the best thing I can say on that one is as we get closer to Investor Day we'll give more specific information by business in terms of margins.
But again let me just say that there is a big impact from the new contract with Express Scripts.
We talked just before with Eric about we gave some comments on that Topco contract which again with generics I mean that's a big impact to our margin.
And then clearly the generic launches being down.
So those 3 items clearly impact our operating income margin and in fact cause it to be down like we said in the low double-digit range.
Okay.
Thanks Ricky.
I think in light of everyone's time we'll wrap up the call here.
But Steve has some final closing remarks.
Yes again sorry for this.
And we want to really thank you for your attention today.
I hope you found the call helpful and informative.
There was a lot of detail provided and we really appreciate your attention especially with the strong close we had there thanks to Sandy.
I hope Tim and I conveyed to you our excitement and confidence in our company and I hope you share our firm belief that AmerisourceBergen is a great company to invest in.
Thank you all and have a great day.
Thank you very much.
I just have a couple of closing comments.
We'll be holding our Investor Day on December 12 in New York City.
There'll be more information about that on our website next week.
And the next conference we'll be attending will be the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference on January 9 in San Francisco.
So thanks very much.
And thank you for your attention today.
I'll turn it back to the operator for replay information.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1 p.m.
today running through November 8 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing (320) 365-3844 using the access code of 266794.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call covering our first quarter fiscal year 2013 results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2012.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and good morning everyone.
I am pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen delivered strong solid results in the first quarter of our fiscal year 2013.
Our revenues were up 6% to $21.5 billion and earnings per share were up 13% to $0.69.
Our financial results were in line with our expectations and position us well to meet our objectives for the remainder of the year.
Importantly the acquisitions we made last year contributed meaningfully to our results in the quarter expanding our positions in the fastest-growing segments of the market and further strengthening our foundation for sustainable growth.
AmerisourceBergen plays a significant role in an essential sector of the health care economy and is an important contributor to a growing and vibrant pharmaceutical industry.
As I discussed at our Investor Day last month we continue to expect that demographic trends and health care reform initiatives will expand coverage to the uninsured and should drive organic growth in our industry over the next several years.
In addition launches of new pharmaceuticals as well as expanded indications for existing drugs should further contribute to improving pharmaceutical sales trends.
At the same time cost efficiencies are expected by both government and private payers and AmerisourceBergen's role in driving efficiency and innovation in the pharmaceutical supply chain is becoming ever more important.
With our diverse customer mix we are fortunate to work with many participants in the health care market.
We deal with both large and small provider and manufacture customers and believe we offer a compelling value proposition for all our chosen customer segments.
Our portfolio positions us to benefit in unique ways from health reform initiatives as organic industry growth drives demand across all our businesses.
For example our Manufacturer Services business helps life-saving new therapies come to market quicker and more efficiently and helps ensure that patients have complete understanding of their reimbursement options including manufacturer resources that may be available to them.
As our provider and retail customers face the challenge of both cost pressures and increased demand our goal is for AmerisourceBergen to be seen as an increasingly important resource in making their health care practice and businesses run as efficiently as possible without sacrificing excellence in patient care.
Historically we have taken a very customer-centric approach to adding and developing our business lines.
Simply put we want to provide services that will be valued and paid for by our customer base.
This guiding principle has been the driver of our long-term success and has helped direct our internal and external investments.
As the health care industry faces great change and complexities in the future AmerisourceBergen will continue to use our key strengths to drive growth by delivering important and innovative value to our customers.
While we face some headwinds in fiscal 2013 the resilience of our business and the investments we've made over the last several quarters give me confidence in the future prospects for our business and in our ability to meet our financial and business goals for fiscal year 2013.
Furthermore with the addition of the World Courier business and an increasingly global mindset of some of our manufacturer partners we see opportunities to expand some of our fastest-growing lines of business into certain international markets.
Turning now to our business units.
The Pharmaceutical Distribution segment had strong revenue growth but gross and operating margins were challenged by difficult year-over-year comparisons particularly with respect to generics and by changing customer mix in AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation.
Operating income was down slightly in the quarter but in line with expectations.
The Drug Company had strong revenue growth in the quarter up 5% as we successfully implemented our new contract with our largest customer.
We are very pleased to be the channel partner to one of the leading U.S.
health care companies and we look forward to growing with them for many years to come.
In addition we continue to see very good performance in our hospital customer base.
These targeted programs and services we deliver to hospitals have helped us solidify our market share in that segment over the last several years.
And excluding government facilities we believe we are now the market leader in pharmaceutical distribution to hospitals.
On the retail side revenues were down year-over-year due to the loss of a food and drug combination group purchasing organization.
However our 4 700-member strong Good Neighbor Pharmacy network continues to play a key role in helping our independent customers remain competitive in the marketplace.
I believe that independent retail pharmacies play an increasingly important role in the health care landscape today.
Patients prefer choice when determining where to fill their prescriptions and the retail pharmacists in our network are among the most easily accessible health care professionals in their communities and very adept at fulfilling unique patient needs.
Our SAP implementation continues to run smoothly with 22 distribution center conversions complete and only 3 remaining to be done in the March quarter of fiscal 2013.
We made a significant investment in SAP and our associates have spent countless hours working to ensure a successful transition.
We take a great deal of pride in what we have been able to accomplish so far.
And while we still have some work ahead including the decommissioning of our old system we have already begun to reap some benefits from our new enterprise system.
Our Canadian distribution operations have faced some difficulties implementing a large new retail contract in a market that is undergoing significant reimbursement challenges particularly with respect to generics.
We are disappointed with Drug Canada's performance and we have several initiatives underway to improve results in Canada but it will take some time.
Importantly our Canadian Specialty business continues to perform well as it works closely with our U.S.
Specialty company and key manufacturers to implement successful joint programs in Canada.
Collaboration with AmerisourceBergen has been the key to our ability to continue to drive innovative solutions.
As specialty products become more important and their usage is more widespread throughout the health care spectrum it is essential that we capitalize on the strengths and expertise we have throughout our business.
For example as the oncology market evolves we are taking concrete steps to ensure that we were meeting the changing needs of cancer care providers.
Whether care is administered in the hospital or in a community practice setting we want to make certain that our customers have access to our market-leading oncology programs and services.
In light of this trend we recently launched our oncology service line which simplifies oncology purchasing and financial management for varying sites of care.
In addition we continue to support oral oncolytic products through innovative offerings that are now an essential part of the commercialization strategy for oral cancer products.
As the oncology market changes AmerisourceBergen continues to remain the leader in providing world-class solutions for our customers and streamline pathways to help get life-saving therapies to patients.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group had very strong revenues in the quarter up 10% with particularly strong performance in third-party logistics blood products vaccine and physician office distribution businesses.
Oncology is a cornerstone of ABSG but we are also an instrumental part of the commercialization strategy for any physician-administered product launched into the marketplace.
In addition our Specialty Group collaborates with our Consulting businesses to help ensure patients have access to products by utilizing the full capabilities of our physician networks as well as our reimbursement and patient support program expertise.
The scale and breadth of our Specialty business and the services that support it make it a true differentiator for AmerisourceBergen.
Our expertise is what we believe will help make us a world leader as specialty markets get established outside the U.S.
Turning now to our Manufacturer Services business.
AmerisourceBergen Consulting Services delivered a strong quarter with both TheraCom and the legacy businesses performing well as demand for their services continues to increase.
Our market-leading position in manufacturer support programs and our proven expertise in both specialty and primary care products differentiate our business and provides tremendous value to manufacturers.
Our unique expertise in demonstrating product value maximizing patient access and improving adherence are unmatched and more importantly essential to the success of new products and the sustainability of more mature products.
We continue to make progress in the integration of World Courier and we believe they will meet their financial and operational objectives for the year.
In addition we continue to be very excited about the opportunities we see to build on the strength of manufacturer relationships we have in the U.S.
and expand into other markets.
I want to take a moment to personally thank Wayne Heyland who will be retiring as President of World Courier.
Over his 30 years with the company Wayne and his team built a business that is the global leader in clinical trial logistics.
We also very much appreciate Wayne's efforts to ensure World Courier made a smooth transition to becoming part of AmerisourceBergen.
We congratulate Wayne on his career and wish him all the best in his retirement.
Looking ahead the results we've had in our first quarter have positioned us well to meet our objectives for the full fiscal year.
We have a difficult comparison to overcome in 2013 but we continue to expect earnings per share to be in the range of $3.06 to $3.16 an increase of 11% to 14% over fiscal 2012.
Looking further ahead we expect to see organic growth improve as the 30 million to 40 million uninsured patients begin to enter the health care market driving demand for pharmaceuticals.
In addition generic conversions improve over the next years.
And of course there is a chance that biosimilars may come to market in that timeframe.
Of course we remain open to future acquisitions particularly in the specialty and consulting areas but no further acquisitions are contemplated in our guidance.
Before I turn it over to Tim for a detailed look at the financials I want to reiterate the confidence that I have in our business and in our future because demand is strong for the products we distribute and the services we provide.
As I stated earlier we play an essential role in the pharmaceutical supply channel and we've positioned ourselves well to benefit from the fastest-growing areas of the market.
Importantly we have continued to invest in our existing businesses and in opportunities we see for sustainable growth in our future.
Here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report a solid first quarter fiscal 2013.
We are tracking well to our expectations for the full year.
The highlights this quarter: Very good top line growth at the Drug Company as we on-boarded our new PBM customer; low double-digit generic revenue growth also at the Drug Company; above-market revenue growth at both Specialty and Consulting and progress integrating World Courier.
Let's start our review of first quarter results.
Revenues were $21.5 billion up nearly 6% compared to last year's quarter.
Drug Company revenues were up by 5% and Specialty revenues were up a very strong 10%.
Our revenues were also helped by World Courier our second full quarter of reporting their results.
Gross profit was approximately $672 million in the quarter up 15% from last December with a gross margin of 3.13%.
Our World Courier acquisition contributed roughly $70 million of that increase in the current quarter.
Our gross profit also benefited from approximately $12 million due to 3 antitrust litigation settlements.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter operating expenses were $385 million up about 27%.
This amount includes $65 million related to the operating cost of World Courier.
Excluding these expenses our comparable operating expenses would have been $320 million an increase of about $17 million or a change of roughly 6%.
About 60% of that increase is due to a higher cost structure in our Canadian drug distribution business to support a higher revenue base.
We are working aggressively on a number of initiatives to reduce cost in that business.
Operating income of $287 million in the quarter increased about 2%.
Our operating margin was 1.34% down 5 basis points compared to last December quarter.
As we discussed at Investor Day we expect our operating income growth to be stronger in the second half of the year.
Our generic comparisons get somewhat easier and we start to realize benefits from a number of our internal initiatives including steps we're taking to optimize field operations and our corporate organization.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense of approximately $19 million in the December quarter decreased 17% compared to last year as a result of paying down debt back in September 2012.
Moving to income taxes.
Our effective income tax rate in the current quarter was 39.6%.
As discussed last quarter we continue to have operating losses in our Canadian drug distribution business and as a result are no longer able to record a foreign tax benefit.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the current December quarter was $0.69 an increase of $0.08 or 13% over the same quarter last year.
Our EPS benefited from a 10% reduction in our average diluted shares outstanding versus the prior year.
At December 31 2012 we had about 230 million shares outstanding.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the December quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total revenues were $21.1 billion up by about 5% versus the same quarter last year.
The increase was due to 2 primary drivers: One on-boarding our PBM customer; and two significantly above-market growth in our non-oncology specialty businesses.
Our strong top line growth for both brand and generics offset a sizable quarter-over-quarter headwind from blockbuster brand drugs converting to lower-price generics.
Pharmaceutical Distribution gross profit increased about $7 million when comparing the first quarter 2013 to the same quarter last year.
And our gross profit margin decreased 9 basis points to 2.65%.
The $12 million of antitrust income is included in this segment's gross profit.
Excluding the antitrust income the segment gross profit decreased due primarily to the headwind from the decreased margin on our large PBM contract.
Although we had a headwind in the Drug Company from a low number of generic launches our overall generic revenue growth helped to mostly offset this headwind amount.
The segment's operating expenses increased to approximately $13 million or 5%.
The majority of the increase is due to our Canadian drug distribution business.
And as I mentioned earlier we continue to review their cost structure.
Pharmaceutical Distribution operating income decreased 2% to $269 million in the first quarter 2013.
The core drug U.S.
business was flat while the Canadian distribution business continued to incur operating losses.
Our specialty business was down slightly due to the impact of lower contributions from oncology generic drugs offset in part by the solid growth in our Besse ASD and ICS businesses.
Moving to the Other reporting segment.
As a reminder this segment is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
Segment revenues increased over $200 million the majority of which came from World Courier.
During the quarter we incurred about $4 million of amortization expense related to acquired intangibles in connection with the World Courier and TheraCom acquisitions.
Operating income increased $11 million from the same quarter last year.
The increase is related to contributions from both Consulting and World Courier.
Switching gears I'd like to comment on our AndersonBrecon business that we previously announced we're selling.
The process continues to move through due diligence.
We expect to close in a timely manner.
The business had very good financial performance in the current quarter.
We continue to make the right capital investments in the business to ensure their financial success.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows.
Capital expenditures were $57 million for the current quarter and included the purchase of our Sacramento distribution center.
We now own all of our large greenfield DCs which are considered strategic assets.
In the current quarter we used about $300 million of cash.
Historically our first quarter of the year is our most challenging quarter from a cash generation standpoint.
Impacts to this quarter were: One we had our seasonal inventory build; two our PBM customer had their new level of AR established and this AR balance is the result of higher purchases and also less favorable terms than our previous PBM contract; and three slightly lower cash collections due to the timing of how the last day of December fell this year.
Our cash balance of about $400 million at December 31 is low by historical standards.
However as we cycle through our seasonally high inventory balance and we generate operating cash flow throughout the remainder of the year our cash balance will return to a more normalized amount.
During the current quarter we bought back about $285 million of shares.
We are confident of our continued ability to generate cash and we took advantage of market conditions to purchase additional shares.
We have about $560 million remaining on our current share repurchase authorization.
Our philosophy has consistently been to upsize returns to shareholders if we haven't otherwise deployed our capital and when market conditions permit.
Now let's turn to fiscal 2013 guidance.
EPS.
Our GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations remains unchanged at a range of $3.06 to $3.16.
Even though Q2 is our highest EPS contributor for the year we continue to guide that our second half of the fiscal year will be stronger than the first half in terms of total EPS contribution.
Our assumptions behind this guidance also remain relatively unchanged revenue growth in the 6% to 9% range; our operating margin will decrease in the high-single low double-digit basis point range; and free cash flow in the range of $750 million to $850 million which includes CapEx of $180 million.
And finally we have increased our share repurchase expectation to $400 million in fiscal 2013.
Let me finish by reiterating we're pleased with our results for the quarter and we're off to a solid start for the year.
Thank you for your time today and your continued interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead John.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first go to the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just first on the Specialty side you mentioned it was a very good quarter.
It was better than we were looking for.
Can you talk about some of the drivers there besides specific business lines maybe are you taking market share or are there newer products that are driving that? Well I think there's a couple of things Tom.
Thanks for the question.
We're doing a lot of specialized manufacturer programs that supports that oral cancer and a few products like that that are growing above market.
And sometimes those are very limited access programs with just 1 or 2 participants so we benefit as those products really grow and expand.
And I think we've always really invested in our non-oncology businesses in Specialty.
And certainly you're seeing our ASD blood plasma vaccine business do very well.
ICS our third-party logistics and specialized manufacturer support services distribution services company do very well as well as our oral oncology programs.
So just again it's a very strong portfolio and we benefited from I think that unique portfolio that we have there.
Also I would point out very strong performance by our Besse division particularly in the ophthalmology area where we have probably even a higher market share than we have in oncology.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Okay.
And then just on the follow-on there.
I guess obviously you reiterate the EPS guidance.
Just wondering sort of how you're thinking about the moving parts at this point.
In the quarter you got the benefit of the settlement.
You're going to have the share repurchases that are a little higher.
On the other side it seems that tax rates are a little higher.
What are you thinking about as the key variables and I guess just your thoughts on guidance in general at this point? Yes Tom thanks.
It's early in the year.
We've got a long runway to go here a lot of moving parts a lot can happen in terms of the pricing environment price inflation we have to work through and see how that turns out for the remainder of the year.
We kept our guidance.
We want to get a few more months certainly under our feet here.
And the other thing too is we've got a couple of generic launches coming up one in Specialty that are both important to our year.
Generic launches are dynamic.
You never know if they're going to launch on time.
So again I would just say that it's early.
And as we work through the year we continuously look at our guidance.
Our next question is from Bob Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the first quarter experience where the cash flow from operations was down and the CapEx have been higher dividend's higher.
Your free cash flow guidance for the year then suggests a much more dramatic ramp than we were looking for.
You obviously didn't raise EPS guidance.
So is it simply all inventory balances that will drive this? Or is there a change to the Express Scripts receivable that Tim mentioned? No Bob.
This is Tim.
No I mean we kind of established that base for Express Scripts.
I would say again the first quarter is a pretty high inventory balance.
We'll see that come down.
Typically the change in inventory between quarters 1 and 2 can be $600 million $700 million.
And by the time we get to the end of the year we think we'll -- we have focus on some internal initiatives here and we think we can really get that inventory balance down by the end of the year.
And we go to Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve in your prepared remarks you seem to suggest that the acquisitions contributed meaningfully to your results.
Could you maybe give us a sense for how World Courier Group in particular maybe TheraCom are performing relative to your expectations? When you did those deals you laid out some specific accretion estimates for World Courier Group of $0.06 to $0.10.
Are we kind of in that ballpark or are we doing a little bit better or worse? Well first of all I think we're getting really used to reporting I think again it's just 1 quarter.
We really that $0.06 to $0.10 guidance was for the whole year and we're very comfortable.
I'd tell you that World Courier has added a lot to ABC.
Certainly as we consider the international platform we have really been surprised at the quality of their people.
I think we've got a really good opportunity to -- on the business development side to look at that strong offering we have with the ICS and ASD businesses in the U.S so we're very pleased.
We think they also have some unique opportunities in the marketplace because of some of the competitive environments.
So it's meeting expectations.
I think we've had a bit of focus on getting them used to being a part of AmerisourceBergen public accounting and the cash flow requirements and the cash reporting that we have.
But now we definitely are looking forward to a strong resumption of business development and we're bullish on the business.
TheraCom I mean that was really an excellent addition into our Consulting Services business.
We're expecting about $0.05 to $0.06 accretion from that and that's right on track.
TheraCom is actually -- it's a little bit harder to identify because it's so integrated now into the core Lash operations.
And as you would expect we had similar positions there and similar systems so there's a much deeper integration there.
So -- but I'd tell you that the leaders of our Consulting business couldn't be more thrilled to have this.
And it's also really helped us with program management.
We have a very strong hub of operations now in Pittsburgh and just outside D.C.
So both of them have really strengthened our business.
I mean Tim anything you want to add on the financial side? No I think we're tracking well.
I mean we're really pleased with the progress we're making.
We said on the World Courier we said that the base business is doing well.
It could be a little bit slower for business development ramp-up which we guided to when we did the acquisition but they're on track.
And again we think there are some opportunities to take some market share hopefully later as we progress so we're very optimistic.
Research Division</strong> Steve maybe if I could just ask you one quick follow-up.
There's obviously a couple of big RFPs in the marketplace right now.
And I'm kind of curious are you bidding on all those opportunities? Or are you seeing anything in the marketplace that would make you cautious at all with respect to pricing or any sort of commentary around the competitive landscape? I mean again we just reported revenues of $21.5 billion so we definitely are a big company.
And we really do like to serve large and small customers so we think we're of the size and scale that we -- we definitely anyone that is interested in supply chain should speak to AmerisourceBergen and we should speak to them.
But we're always going to bid responsibly on contracts.
As you know that's what you should have come to expect from us.
We certainly consider the customer growth.
We consider the positioning within our portfolio.
We consider cash flow very importantly.
So all of these are what we consider when we bid.
And honestly we're seeing a very stable but competitive contracting process.
And we start to probably talk a bit earlier to customers our own customers in the renewal contract cycle.
But other than that I'd say everything is pretty much steady as she goes.
And we'll go to Bob Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just on the Canadian business it looks like reimbursement in Canada has been challenged for some time.
It sounds like you're seeing some increased expenses against lower sales and it looks like you're still operating at a loss there.
I was wondering just what steps specifically you could take to start to turn things around there? And then is there any timeline we should be thinking about around the Canadian business? Well Bob thanks very much.
We got a little bit surprised among other things I think particularly by the generic reimbursement.
So when we started off when we started really bidding on this large contract and looking at expanding into a national footprint there which is expensive and relatively small populations in the middle of the country we probably got really surprised by how quickly the reimbursement changed.
I mean we went from 50% of brand to 25% to 20% and then that really spread throughout the country probably even a lot quicker than we expected.
When we implemented the contract some of the mix surprised us but we've worked through that.
We are taking a lot of expense out.
Obviously we have discussions with our customers going on as well making sure that we adapt to the new realities of the marketplace which are both scale and reimbursement related.
And we've got some of our best people in the U.S.
Our president of the Drug Company David Neu has got some of his key people looking at what we can do there in terms of automation et cetera.
So I think it's something that has been a surprise to us on the negative side but we're working through it appropriately.
And as I pointed to in our remarks a very strong performance in our Specialty business.
We bought 2 really small businesses there and we're really thrilled that not only collaboration with the U.S.
but the position on some stand-alone programs in Canada particularly opportunities in the managed care area et cetera.
So we are really pleased about our progress in Specialty there and that really proves that our international thesis that we can really be a leader in Specialty is very valid.
So anything to add Tim? Yes I would just say I mean we've made progress already this quarter compared to last year so we're working hard to take cost out and look at other ways to automate.
And again a lot of it is labor cost that we have to focus on.
And there was probably a couple of pennies of headwind but we think we'll make progress in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And Tim if I could just follow up.
I have a follow-up question to you on capital deployment.
I know it looks like you guys bought back about $284 million worth of stock this quarter understanding it's a seasonably challenging quarter from a cash perspective cash generation perspective.
You ended the quarter with $400 million on the balance sheet.
I'm just curious how aggressive you feel you can be near term on share repos and is there a minimal cash balance that you target maintaining? Yes.
We always like to be around $500 million so we dipped a little bit under that Bob.
But I think we'll -- again we have to cycle through -- we have a high inventory balance.
We cycle through that in the March quarter.
Between March and June that comes down.
So we'll just evaluate our cash as we go and also kind of how that looks and how the market and our share price looks before we decide to deploy for any more share repurchases.
And next from the line of Steve Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on D&amp;A.
That was up over 30% year-over-year and presumably a lot of that is intangible asset amortization tied to recent acquisitions.
So I guess I'm curious have you guys given any further thought to maybe switching to reporting cash EPS as pretty much all your peers are doing now? Yes Steve I'll address that.
I mean we -- today we talked about the impact on intangibles World Courier and TheraCom and I highlighted the number it was $4 million.
It's -- we also have depreciation from the World Courier acquisition coming in this year.
We talk about we consider it but at this point we feel like if we disclose and give enough information that it's not necessary yet to switch over.
And we'll go to Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve when you talked about the oncology market you talked about the evolution changing needs of the physician changing needs around reimbursement.
Can you maybe just give us some thoughts as you think about the future of the oncology market and what that has the potential to do to your margin structure? Do you think that there's opportunities for margins to be better? Or do you think that this is going to be something that will put pressure on your margins as we see this evolution in the oncology market? Well clearly our margins are better in the Specialty business.
I mean that is a fact.
But I think we've got some unique opportunities here.
And what led to this project is we're looking at our strength in our health system or hospital business and we were just looking at how much oncology are we doing in the hospital business and it was really very significant.
And then we look at the growth of some of these direct programs we're doing in our ASD and ICS business and some of the strength we have in our oral oncology programs both in Specialty as well as in our Consulting Services business where we do a lot of reimbursement support adherence programs clinical programs and even helping with pricing as we look issues like comparative effectiveness.
Oncology really drives all of ABC's portfolio.
I think when I took over as COO that's one of the key themes that we've been looking at is irrespective of site of care using all of the scale and breadth and expertise of AmerisourceBergen.
So I think this is very consistent with that theme.
What we've here most recently done is made it easier for community practices that are transitioning to a hospital setting or into a larger network to be able to access best-in-class pricing being compliant with all the manufacturer pricing policies the class of trade issues that might arise but also giving the manufacturers some of those data elements that they want.
And even we've had a lot of hospital group purchasing organizations say "We want some sort of an affiliation with your ION business where we can offer a lot of those key service items that our physicians oncologists are used to from organizations like ION." So all these things are coming together and it's a terrific opportunity for us to display some of the unique capabilities we have and create differentiation and value add for our customers both on the manufacturer and provider side.
Research Division</strong> But from a financial perspective do you think that that will enhance your margins? Will they pay for data? Will they pay for these other services over time and therefore -- clearly we know Specialty is already better than drug distribution but can you see an increase in opportunity? Or do you think that it's going to be a market share gain where you need to gain market share because there is pressure on overall margins on the oncology business.
How should we think about that going forward? Just a quick response to that.
I tell you if we don't keep oncology being special and cancer treatment being special then we won't have a chance to create that differentiated margin so really important for us to do that.
It's also important for us to create that stickiness with the customers.
So I think we've got an opportunity to enhance our margins by some of these in the hospital business by some of these value-added services.
And again I think in my comments I made I talked about we really think a lot about the value add and getting paid for that and nothing could be truer than extending a lot of these really high-value services to the hospital system and including getting some additional fees from manufacturers.
So we think there's a chance to improve the margins in the hospital system particularly as oncology becomes a broader part of that.
And let's try and keep oncology a specialty practice.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a follow-up to Tim.
We talked about guidance.
I just want 2 clarifications if you could help us.
The first would be around the litigation settlements.
Were those contemplated when you gave us the original guidance and will we see any additional litigation settlements this year? And then secondly around the share repurchase and the increase in share repurchase should we think of that also being incorporated in the guidance and should we be thinking that you'll be buying back shares with free cash flow equally throughout the rest of the year? How should we think about those 2 things in the guidance number? Sure Lisa.
The litigation I mean that's an area that some of those take several years to play out and get the cash.
We just happened to get 3 in the door a couple came in right near the end of the year so they're really not contemplated in the guidance when they -- and were a cash basis.
So when they arrive we recognize them.
There is another one that may come at the end of the year.
There's some discussion about another one that could be a little bit larger maybe September October time period.
But again until you get -- until they arrive you just never know.
The other question was just about share repurchases.
I mean really it's hard to say.
We gave our guidance for $400 million for the year.
A lot of it just depends on timing market conditions when those will come during the year.
We'll evaluate as we go.
And really no commitments whether it's quarters 2 3 or 4.
It's just we tend to be opportunistic.
And we'll go to Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If you can just help us a little a bit with how we think about the progression of the model.
So when we think about distribution margins obviously there are 2 keys factors this year that are pressuring margin the addition of the Express business and then the generic comps.
So when I think about the year-over-year change in distribution margin in this quarter can you quantify for us what percent is from Express versus from the generic comps? Yes Ricky we're not that specific in terms of the change in the margin.
I mean we are pretty pleased with the margin this quarter.
That margin compression we'll see a little bit more.
Q2 is a tough quarter with the generic comps.
Last year was a pretty good quarter when you had Lipitor and Zyprexa the full quarter.
And I'll just say that in terms of margin it gets a little bit better when we're into 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But sequentially there shouldn't be really any change in the impact that Express will have on your business.
Is that a fair statement? Yes I think that's a fair statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the operating expense line I think you mentioned same-store was up 6% due to the higher cost structure in Canada.
What should it be on a normalized basis? And when we think about the model when do you expect to return to those normalized levels? We -- as you know Ricky we really pride ourselves on managing expenses.
So I mean a normalized model if we're up 2% 2.5% that's kind of what we hold ourselves to in terms of a standard.
So I think it's going to take a little bit of time that we talked about of cycling through some of the initiatives we have with Canada here.
So it's going to be a little bit higher this year.
But hopefully that will be as we get -- as we pass this year and get into '14 we'll see some more expense benefit.
Thanks Ricky.
Next question please? And that's from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you tell us in general terms what percent of your book has been reworked over the last 12 months and is that a higher rate than normal? And is that contributing at all to some of the margin comps in addition to some of the other stuff that we talked about? Well I mean we've got the big one with our large PBM customer that we sized.
We don't have a lot of contract renewal coming up this year as you know.
As I said I think to one of the earlier questions John we are busy -- we obviously always try and renew customers early where we think it makes sense.
But the one thing I would point to is we had a good contract with a large food and drug chain account that we've lost.
That has somewhat affected our margins.
So Tim anything else you'd point to? Yes I guess I'd point out that again we've always talked recently in the last few months just about generic launches.
I mean 2013 I think is one of the lowest years over a 10- or 11-year period.
So between the Express Scripts new contract and the loss of the other customer Steve mentioned and just slow generic launches that's really -- that puts a lot of pressure on our margin.
But again as we said at Investor Day as we cycle through '13 we're pretty bullish on increasing that margin and growing it in '14 and beyond.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to kind of push a little bit further into this Express Scripts contract.
Years 2 and 3 in a large contract like that that's all branded and kind of a low service level.
How does the margin compare in 2 and 3? I know it gets a lot better on a contract where you're doing generics but on a pure branded contract like this is there a material difference in margin as you go through it? Or is this kind of where it will be? It would largely depend on the buy side.
I mean it'd depend on the price increase environment.
There might be some modest upside couple of basis points at best I mean.
It's a very big contract.
And obviously as you'd expect the large customer John as you know very well get the best margin.
But we do hope to do more strategic initiatives with our largest customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well it's just -- it looks I mean to me like the margin on that contract and then the VA contract at McKesson the margins are just so skinny Year 1 you just wonder there has to be some other reasons why some of these contracts are being priced where they are because they just look like they're very marginally profitable.
So there must be some benefits in purchasing scale or other things that you can't see just looking at the contract in isolation.
I don't know if that's a question or conclusion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I mean you're making -- I mean you're clearly making less money on the combo contract than you're making on stand-alone with the SRX.
So that implies the margin went down by more than half and so that's complicating things somewhat.
I know it's in your guidance and you're growing but...
It's a larger contract.
I think we were uniquely positioned to serve it and it's probably operationally easier than a lot of other large contracts.
So you may think of that.
And it drives a lot of efficiency.
And Tim talked about Sacramento for example and the strategic -- we regard our greenfield as strategic assets.
And honestly a lot them are really set up around key mail order sites for their customers.
So a lot of reasons we strategically wanted to keep the account.
But I think we've talked enough about that particular contract so I appreciate it John.
Thanks.
Next question please? And that's from David Larsen with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the SAP implementation progress? I mean one of your large competitors was going through a similar type of thing and they mentioned there were a couple of delays in their situation.
It sounds like things are going pretty smoothly for you.
And then also with the Express Medco contract did that all come on at the beginning of the quarter like right at the start? Or was it sort of phased in throughout the quarter? And are they using -- or are they on the SAP platform or is there more migrations to occur there? Yes the Express contract definitely started October 1 and we hit the ground running.
We took it almost in whole and we had a lot of their business already.
We had a lot because of the former Medco's mail order business.
So we increased the contract by I think 30% to 35%.
That's a fair comment right Tim? Yes.
So we did use -- the way we process orders internally shouldn't be always confused with external the way that customers order from us which is through many different mechanisms often their own ERP systems and their own EDI systems.
So I think the majority of course of the PBM business is now being serviced by distribution centers that are on the SAP platform.
And then just remind me about your other question? Research Division</strong> So from the technology perspective if the Express Medco contract is sort of fully integrated SAP is running smoothly -- And then just one other piece.
Did I hear that you said the Specialty operating income did that -- did you mention that that declined on a year-over-year basis or not? David it's Tim.
I mentioned that it declined slightly.
And again I pointed to oncology generic drugs being down slightly this year versus last year.
Even though we had Oxy come back it didn't offset the other 2 Gemcitabine and Docetaxel.
Okay.
Next question please? And that's from Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
Just maybe going back then Tim to the guidance on free cash flow guidance here.
Obviously your peer that -- the peer that lost the Express portion of the contract and I noted that there's a cash flow impact to their balance sheet does that -- should we think that there should be a benefit to your cash flow maybe not this year but as we think about next year when this contract's ramped up? Given that it's a more simple contract does it benefit working capital for you? No it doesn't.
Actually -- and again that's part of the reason why our free cash flow is down a little bit in this quarter.
It's just ramping up.
Like Steve mentioned they came on strong in Q1 ramped up to a pretty high level right away.
And of course with the terms they -- we had to establish their AR balance.
So again that shouldn't -- the good news is that shouldn't be a big factor going forward.
It's kind a onetime impact and now it just changes based on growth.
But again that's behind us so we have to cycle through that.
But I think hopefully that answers your questions.
And we'll go to George Hill with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Tim just kind of one more follow-up on the gross margin contribution where you had said that in the Specialty segment gross profit contribution declined we'll call it a smidgen in the quarter.
That means that I guess the gross profit contribution from the regular Drug Company was up just with gross margins off let's call it 30 bps or so.
Am I thinking about that conceptually right? Well for the segment George for Pharmaceutical Distribution we're pretty much flat with Drug Company U.S.
And again we're really pleased with that right because we had 3 headwinds we called out.
So for them to be flat with the -- with Express generic launches the loss of Topco we're really pleased with that performance.
Canada impacted us slightly from a GP standpoint but mostly expense.
And then finally yes Specialty was down a bit again because of the oncology generics.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just one more quick follow-up housekeeping question.
On the Other segment gross margins have kind of continued to rise if you look back at it over the last 5 quarters.
Should we expect to see any seasonality to the Other segment? Or should we think of this gross profit contribution rate from the Other segment as kind of a run rate going forward maybe even with the opportunity for some improvement? Yes I would hope that you would see some improvement right? Again you're talking about the Other segment.
I think there's some opportunity there as we expand business.
And clearly in that Other segment you have -- it's a people business.
So as you can leverage that infrastructure you should be able to drop more through to the bottom line.
So I would think I would like to see both GP and operating income margins expand.
We have time for one more question.
And that will be from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So I want to pick up where a few folks were talking about and something you mentioned Steve in the script.
We've been hearing a lot more back and forth between Teva and Amgen on sort of Neupogen and Neulasta.
How do you think about that as sort of an opportunity with a November launch? Obviously it's a bit different sort of than a traditional biosimilar.
Is that something you guys see as something that could theoretically be a benefit to the business? How are you sort of looking at that opportunity? I think AmerisourceBergen will be very strong on any physician-administered product I mean whether it's oncology ophthalmology and urology.
I mean any physician-administered product will be very strong.
We don't comment specifically on individual products.
Obviously you're talking about oncology products.
I think you know our strength there.
I think we've -- we think that we've done very well obviously with the multi-source generics especially in the 6-month exclusivity.
So I think wherever the market takes us we'll be a strong beneficiary and a strong participant.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question is maybe -- and again less specific to maybe how it impacts your business.
But how do you think about -- and this is sort of a very different launch right? And do you think this will tell somewhat of how people will think about the biosimilar opportunity for the business or as cases like this where it's another brand coming to market that will be potentially substitutable is that a bit more tricky to sort of gauge? I mean I guess the sense is do you feel like this will give any confidence to sort of the future opportunity in biosimilars? Or is this sort of a different event? I think what we're learning about biosimilars is that it's definitely more expensive to bring to market much more complicated clinical pathway.
It's definitely very different than an oral solid because they are biotech products.
And we think that when as products get closer to being launched we'll have a great opportunity to talk to manufacturers.
We think the pricing should stay up fairly close to the brand that the biosimilar will be as similar.
There will be some clinical differences between the respective products the incumbent brand and the new entrant.
And I think that they're going to need our full portfolio services to help commercialize the products.
So we see it as frankly so much more upside than any concern.
So we're very bullish and we look forward to clear regulatory pathway for these products to be launched.
We think it will be a big upside for us and for our customers frankly.
And now Steve would like to make some final comments.
Thank you very much everyone.
I appreciate your attention.
I know it's a busy day for you.
Just to reiterate a key reason that I have confidence in our future is because our belief that the AmerisourceBergen associates really set us apart.
Whatever the challenge is whether it's a national natural disaster implementing a new multibillion dollar account the new SAP system which we've been so successful with developing the new oncology service line our associates really work collaboratively across the whole organization to creatively tackle challenges and identify new opportunities to add value on a daily basis.
They share mine and my lead team's commitment to meeting our objectives for the year both in terms of the service we provide to customers and suppliers and in our financial performance and I'm honored to work beside them.
Thank you very much for your time today.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd like to highlight our next 2 upcoming events.
We'll be attending the Citibank Health Care Conference in New York on February 25 and the Raymond James Institutional Investor Conference in Orlando on March 5.
That concludes our call for today.
And now I will turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen we'd like to thank you for standing by and welcome you to the ABC Second Quarter Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call will be recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host and senior facilitator Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our second quarter fiscal year 2013 results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2012.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and thank you to everyone for joining us on this busy morning.
I'm pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen delivered solid performance in our second quarter fiscal 2013 with revenues of $20.5 billion and earnings per share of $0.87 in the March quarter both up 4% over the same period in the prior year.
We had a very difficult comparison in generics this quarter and we benefited from efforts we made to redeploy capital into share repurchases late last fiscal year and earlier this year.
Tim will detail our financial performance and our guidance for the rest of the year.
But as we look ahead there are many moving pieces that will potentially impact our results and we expect that our adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will be in the lower half of the range of $3.04 to $3.14.
We accomplished a great deal in the March quarter.
We completed the implementation of our SAP system following the conversion of our last distribution center to the SAP system.
We took a few very important steps to significantly strengthen our business reinvigorate our focus and greatly enhance our opportunities to provide long-term value to all of our stakeholders.
We announced an agreement to sell our contract pharmaceutical packaging business AndersonBrecon; we signed an agreement to sell our underperforming Canadian drug distribution business; and most importantly we entered into a new strategic long-term relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
All of these decisions were strategically undertaken to ensure that AmerisourceBergen has further improved our positioning to generate sustainable long-term growth.
ABC already had a strong foundation and we will now have enhanced scale upon which to continue to develop innovative and value-added services and solutions for all of our customers both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers alike.
It has been just over a month since we announced our unprecedented new agreement with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
As I said when we made the announcement on March 19 we have before us an extraordinary opportunity to leverage global supply chain efficiencies and best practices with the largest pharmacy retailer in the U.S.
and the leading international pharmacy-led health and beauty group.
As we have continued to explore ways to collectively improve patient access to pharmaceuticals while increasing the efficiency of the healthcare system I am more convinced than ever that this partnership will unlock tremendous value across the supply chain not only for AmerisourceBergen but for all of our customers and suppliers and our new partners as well.
There are 3 basic components to the new relationship.
First we have signed a 10-year comprehensive primary pharmaceutical distribution agreement with Walgreens which includes not only branded products but also generics and specialty drugs for Walgreens' retail stores mail order and specialty pharmacies.
The contract is effective September 1 2013.
And while the initial phase will include products that Walgreens has traditionally sourced from distributors and suppliers over time AmerisourceBergen will assume the distribution of the products that Walgreens has historically self distributed.
This contract significantly expands our historic relationship with Walgreens and will yield $25 billion in incremental revenues for AmerisourceBergen in the fiscal year 2014.
Second AmerisourceBergen will have access to generics and related pharmaceutical products sourced through the Walgreens-Alliance Boots development joint venture.
This relationship will improve AmerisourceBergen's access to globally-sourced products and further strengthen our proprietary approach in formulary.
Importantly AmerisourceBergen will over time be able to source products through the JV not just for the Walgreens stores but for our entire customer base.
I'd like to call our third bucket "the platform leverage." We have agreed to work collaboratively to share best practices and leverage the expertise of all 3 partners across all of our various platforms.
Together we share a vision for enhancing and preserving the role of community pharmacy throughout the world and we bring unique capabilities to facilitate that worthwhile goal.
I have just returned from the NACDS Annual Event in Florida where I personally met with many manufacturers and chain customers.
At several of the meetings the 3 companies and our teams had joint meetings.
These interactions affirmed that the vision and strategy for our relationship creates truly unparalleled knowledge capabilities and leadership.
In international markets we will look cooperatively -- we will work cooperatively with Walgreens and Alliance Boots to expand our manufacturer services businesses and specialty businesses.
Alliance Boots' increasing activity with European biotech manufacturers and AmerisourceBergen's expertise in commercialization and patient support services offer manufacturers additional platforms to expand patient access to biotech products in Europe and beyond.
Our goal is to provide manufacturers with integrated solutions for clinical trial logistics global third-party logistics and product support services by leveraging AmerisourceBergen's market-leading World Courier and Consulting Services businesses and Alliance Boots' vast experience in global markets.
I am thrilled with the degree of collaboration we've experienced thus far with our new partners and with the tracking and governance mechanisms we are building into our relationships to ensure we properly measure our respective performance over the long term.
Finally in consideration of the value creation inherent in this new relationship and in an effort to ensure long-term interest overland [ph] Walgreens and Alliance Boots have given the right to be -- have been given the right to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen over the next 4 years.
Over the long term we expect significant earnings accretion and other benefits to accrue to AmerisourceBergen as a result of this transaction and we are very pleased to have our partners' share in our future success.
We have submitted all required regulatory filings and are expecting to receive regulatory approval in this current quarter.
In the weeks since we made the announcements I have personally met and spoken to many of our customers and suppliers and I am pleased to report that we have been very encouraged by the open and honest dialogue.
Across our entire organization we remain absolutely committed to meeting the needs of all of those with whom we have the privilege of doing business.
We have endeavored to demonstrate as broadly as possible that our intent is to strengthen our entire business and thereby provide even greater service and more innovative solutions to all AmerisourceBergen customers and to all of the manufacturers whose products we distribute and support in the marketplace everyday.
The healthcare landscape is changing rapidly and we need to continuously explore ways to drive efficiency without sacrificing the quality of care and service delivered.
Ultimately we all share the same crucial objective to help ensure that patients have access to the best possible care and the medication therapies they need to improve their lives.
I truly believe it is a great time to be an AmerisourceBergen customer and supplier.
In the months and years ahead we will be making meaningful investments in our core business and infrastructure and we will be seeking ways to improve the products and services we provide with the help of our global partners.
Turning now to the performance of our business units in the March quarter.
Revenues in AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation were up 4% due primarily to an increase in sales volume resulting from our previously announced new contract with our largest -- with our large PBM customer offset in part by the loss of a food and drug combo GPO earlier in the year.
ABDC's revenues will of course ramp significantly in the second half of the year as we begin to on-board the volume from the new Walgreens contract.
We have already begun the process of incorporating the store locations into our store systems and we have continued to run tests and pilots over the course of the summer and even to begin to shift certain lines to ensure a smooth transition on September 1.
We've also already begun to look at opportunities for enhancing our Good Neighbor Pharmacy programs with the help of Walgreens and Alliance Boots whether it is through an improved Pro Generics formulary proprietary front-of-store products or new share clinical systems that will facilitate third-party contracting we believe there will be compelling new offerings for our independent customers in the years ahead.
Our new partners share our goal of strengthening Good Neighbor Pharmacy and enhancing and preserving the role of independent community pharmacy.
Our institutional segment including both hospitals and alternate sites continues to perform very well.
We have made significant progress in expanding some of our best-in-class specialty capabilities into the hospital market in an effort to continue to support physicians to treat oncology patients even as the site of care sometimes changes.
As the specialty markets evolve we want to -- we continue to find innovative ways to support all of our customers who want to care for patients who are being treated with specialty products.
Operating income in ABDC was down year-over-year as expected due to the decline in operating margin which resulted from the implementation of the new large PBM customer contract and fewer significant generic launches available to offset that pressure in the quarter.
Overall trends in brand inflation generic utilization and even generic price inflation continue to be positive.
As I mentioned earlier we have very difficult comparisons on generic launches in fiscal 2013 but those improved significantly in fiscal 2014.
We will see further operating margin degradation in fiscal 2014 as a result of on-boarding the Walgreens contract.
But once we anniversary the impact we fully expect to return to a model where we are able to meaningfully increase our operating margins on an annual basis.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group revenues were up 4% in the quarter due to strong sales in ICS our third-party logistics business as well as in ASD and Besse.
We had somewhat disappointing results in our Oncology business as physician practices continue to face economic challenges in the face of declined reimbursement rates.
Clearly there has been pressure on specialty physicians especially those in smaller practices.
In addition under the sequestration legislation Medicare physician reimbursement rates for part B drugs were cut on April 1 from a rate of average selling price or ASP plus 6% to a rate of ASP plus 4%.
We have been hard at work in Washington to help members of Congress and regulators at CMS and elsewhere to understand that physician reimbursement has not just been cut by 2% it is essentially been cut by over 30%.
Specialty physicians and specialty oncologists who had already maintained an ASP plus 6% was inadequate reimbursement to -- for physicians -- to reimburse physicians for the services rendered to procure store and administer Part B drugs.
As we have previously noted we have seen a trend of small practice selling -- small practices selling to larger practices or in some cases to hospitals.
We continue to believe that patients are best served in the community practice setting.
Not only do patients tend to have better outcomes but the cost of care are lower in the community setting.
We are hopeful that at a minimum the sequestration cuts will be reversed.
But at this time it is difficult to know when or by what mechanism that would occur.
Furthermore since the reimbursement rate just changed on April 1 we cannot be certain if we have seen the full impact of the rate cuts at this time.
It is possible that the growth rates of our sales to specialty physicians both oncologists and other specialists may continue to slow over the course of the second half of our fiscal year.
Fortunately as Oncology sales have slowed our other specialty businesses have been growing at above market rates.
These businesses do what -- do have somewhat lower margins than Oncology business does so there has been a mix shift towards lower margin businesses in ABSG and that growth was not enough to overcome the decline in the contribution from Oncology.
While the specialty market is changing and working through near-term challenges our specialty franchise remains a key differentiator for AmerisourceBergen and an important driver of our long-term growth.
The investments we have made to ensure that we are participating to some degree in the entire life cycle of biotech and other products across all sites of care combined with the efforts we have made to strengthen our core business and expand our customers' ability to provide specialty products gives me great confidence that we will continue to be the leading-edge partner for all who care for patients who require specialty products.
Revenues in the segment that is comprised of our manufacturing services business was up 47% due in large part to contributions from World Courier which were not included in the prior year.
Operating income was up 5% over the prior year which was below our expectations as some sluggishness that we experienced in the December quarter carried over into the March quarter particularly in World Courier.
We are seeing signs of improvement in April and we expect World Courier to have a strong second half of the year.
As I mentioned earlier we continue to be very excited about the long-term potential for our manufacturer services businesses both in the U.S.
and elsewhere in the global marketplace.
Before I turn it over to Tim I want to reiterate a theme I mentioned earlier.
AmerisourceBergen has always been deeply committed to the pharmaceutical supply channel.
The investments we've made in our own business and through acquisitions over the last few years have strengthened our platform.
And our new strategic long-term relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots dramatically improves our ability to drive sustainable long-term growth for all of our stakeholders.
As I look ahead I have great confidence that we invested in the right markets and that we'll be able to meet our long-term growth objectives of mid-teens earnings per share growth even with the dilution impact expected from the warrants that were issued to Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
There has never been a better time to be a customer supplier associate shareholder or other stakeholder in AmerisourceBergen.
We have a great deal of work ahead of us but I am confident that our associates will continue to bring dedication and creativity to every task and opportunity that lies ahead and that we will continue to meet if not exceed the expectations that all our partners have in us.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to be able to report another solid quarter for ABC.
As has been our practice my comments on our financial results will be on a GAAP basis.
Near the end of my prepared comments we will provide forward-looking guidance for non-GAAP adjusted EPS for the full fiscal year.
We are now at the halfway point of our fiscal year 2013 and we're pleased with our progress in what we knew would be a challenging year.
As a reminder last year's March quarter had the full benefit of 2 high-volume generics which were in their exclusivity periods.
The highlights for the current March quarter are: solid top line growth in both our core drug business and specialty even with 1 less business day; growth in our generic revenues excluding the customer lost that Steve mentioned; and very good free cash flow.
And as a result our cash balance is north of $1 billion again.
This quarter we had 3 announcements related to transactions.
During my prepared comments I will cover financial reporting impacts from our new Walgreens-Alliance Boots relationship and the pending sale transactions with Drug Canada and AndersonBrecon.
We are now classifying Drug Canada as a discontinued operation.
Their quarter and year-to-date operating results have been removed from our March 13 and March 12 results from continuing operations.
Additionally the estimated loss on the sale of Drug Canada is also recorded in discontinued operations.
AndersonBrecon had previously been classified as a DO in our fourth quarter 2012.
The gain on the sale of AndersonBrecon will be recorded within the DO line upon transaction closing.
Let's start our review of current second quarter results.
Revenues were $20.5 billion up about 4% compared to last year's quarter.
This is solid performance even with the headwind from the difference in generic conversions year-over-year.
Our revenue growth was primarily due to our new PBM contract beginning last October.
Gross profit was $717 million in the current quarter up 5.5% compared to last year's quarter with a gross margin of 3.49%.
Our World Courier acquisition contributed roughly $65 million of gross profit in the current quarter.
Excluding World Courier our gross profit was down year-over-year due to lower contributions from our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter operating expenses were $367 million up about 21%.
This increase is due primarily to the operating cost of World Courier which were not in the prior year.
This quarter marks the first quarter that we have an expense associated with warrants that we issued to Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
We used an independent third party to calculate the fair value of the warrants.
At March 31 the warrants had a value of $314 million using a binomial lattice model approach.
Per the accounting rules we started to expense these warrants from the date of issuance March 18 through March 31 about $3.8 million.
We will account for these warrants under variable instrument accounting rules.
And as a result the fair value has to be remeasured each quarter end based on valuation assumptions which include our stock price and volatility of our stock price.
Consequently the expense will not be a fixed amount each quarter.
Moving to operating income.
We had $350 million in the current quarter a decrease of about 7%.
The decrease is due to lower gross profit in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Our operating margin was 1.71% down by 20 basis points compared to last March quarter.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense of approximately $18.5 million in the March quarter decreased 21% compared to last year.
Moving to income taxes.
Our effective income tax rate in the current March quarter dropped to 38.3%.
This is the result of reclassifying Drug Canada to discontinued operations.
For the full fiscal year we'd expect our tax rate to be in the range of about 38.2% for continuing operations.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the current March quarter was $0.87.
The warrant expense equivalent to a $0.01 negative was not contemplated in guidance previously given.
Adding back the $0.01 means we would be at $0.88 on a non-GAAP adjusted EPS basis an increase of $0.04 or about 5% over the same quarter last year.
Our EPS benefited from an 11% reduction in average diluted shares outstanding versus the prior year's quarter.
At March 31 2013 we had about 231 million shares outstanding.
We did not buy back any shares during the current March quarter.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the March quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were $20.1 billion up by about 3.5% versus the same quarter last year.
The increase was due to 2 primary drivers: One growth at our drug company about 4%.
As mentioned previously new volume from our PBM customer offset by the contract wind-down of our food drug combo GPO customer; and two growth at our Specialty business about 4% specifically our ASD Besse Medical and ICS businesses offset by weaker-than-expected revenue performance in our Oncology business.
These sales growth percentages are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we've communicated these percentages in the past.
Total segment operating income decreased $34 million or 9% to $329 million in the current second quarter.
Most of the decrease is related to the drug company.
Drugs decrease is due to lower contributions from our PBM contract and the lost of the food drug combo GPO contract.
We also had a sizable headwind from oral solid generic launches offset somewhat by better generic price appreciation.
In terms of Specialty they had higher contributions directly related to the increased revenues at ASD Besse medical and ICS.
However these increases could not offset the decrease from our Oncology business.
As Steve mentioned Oncology's income is being negatively impacted from lower revenues as community practices face more challenging economics due to the changing government reimbursement.
We expect this trend to persist for the remainder of the fiscal year.
Moving to the other reporting segment.
As a reminder this segment is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
Segment revenues increased nearly $140 million to $435 million.
Most of the increase is from World Courier.
This business did experience some revenue softness as new business slowed somewhat in late calendar 2012 and is carried over into our March quarter.
However we are starting to see an improved pipeline for customer RFPs.
And recently we've had several account wins that will positively impact our June and September results.
Operating income for the Other segment increased about $1 million or about 5% from the same quarter last year.
The increase is related to contributions from World Courier.
Our Consulting business had a decrease in operating income due to higher operating costs as they ramp up for new initiatives.
Previously we've given guidance that World Courier would contribute $0.06 to $0.10 of earnings this fiscal 2013.
We now expect to be near the lower end of this range due to the revenue softness we are cycling through.
We remain positive about the prospects for meaningful long-term returns from World Courier.
And as Steve mentioned we now see even greater opportunities further out as we explore new business with Walgreens and Alliance Boots globally.
Switching gears I'd like to comment on our 2 announced business sales both recorded in the discontinued operations line and our P&amp;L.
We are waiting for regulatory approval on both transactions.
We expect that both transactions will close in the June quarter.
For Drug Canada in our March 2013 quarter we have recognized expense of $166 million in the DO line.
Almost all of this is related to the expected loss on sale.
Now let's turn to our cash flow.
Overall we are pleased with our free cash flow performance for the current March quarter.
We generated about $950 million of free cash flow in the 3 months ended March 2013.
For the current 6-month period we now stand at approximately $655 million of free cash flow about the same level as last year.
Some of the free cash flow benefit was a result of timing.
Our last business day in March was a Friday.
Friday is typically our strongest AR collection day and AP invoices due over the weekend were paid Monday.
We finished the quarter with a cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion.
Before I provide fiscal 2013 guidance let me cover quickly key updated fiscal 2012 numbers since our financials will be revised to pull Drug Canada out of continuing operations.
We'd expect to issue adjusted fiscal 2012 ABC consolidated and segment quarterly numbers via an 8-k soon after we file our March 10-Q.
Total consolidated revenues will be revised to $78.1 billion.
Consolidated operating income will be revised to $1.3 billion.
And finally diluted EPS from continuing operations will be revised to $2.96.
Now let's cover our fiscal 2013 guidance.
EPS.
Our full year non-GAAP adjusted EPS from continuing operations remains unchanged a range of $3.04 to $3.14 which excludes 2 items: one the negative impact from warrant expense that we recorded in SG&amp;A; and two the expected LIFO charge from on-boarding the Walgreens brand distribution business.
We now expect to be in the lower half of the range due to lower contributions primarily from our Oncology business and also a $0.02-negative impact from dilution on applying the treasury stock method of accounting to the warrants.
Going forward whenever our average quarterly stock price exceeds the average strike prices of the warrants then the warrants will be dilutive to our share count for EPS purposes including the September -- including the June and September quarters.
One final comment about adjusted EPS guidance.
Our guidance includes the effect of revising our Q1 2013 EPS results from continuing operations as we have pulled out Drug Canada and classified it as a discontinued operation.
Keep in mind that we'll have deal cost in the June quarter and on-boarding cost including the one-time Walgreens rebate in the September quarter.
Based on this we now expect our adjusted EPS to be pretty even for the June and September quarters.
Our key guidance assumptions are as follows: Revenue growth.
Revenue growth will now be in the 11% to 13% range off the revised fiscal 2012 revenues.
We expect revenues to accelerate in the second half of fiscal 2013 as we begin to service certain lines of Walgreens prior to September 1 and add new brand lines for our large PBM customer.
Additionally the headwind from brand-to-generic conversions decreases significantly in the second half of our fiscal year.
Operating income and margin.
We have many moving parts.
And because of this our operating income will now be down 3% to 5% for the year as compared to the revised fiscal '12 operating income.
Let me cover operating income dollars first and this excludes any impact from the warrant expense and the LIFO expense.
The 2 drivers of the operating income decrease are: one deal cost and the ramp-up of operating expenses including the one-time rebate we're paying again in quarters 3 and 4 respectively; and two lower contributions now from our oncology business and somewhat lower contributions from World Courier and the delay in reducing legacy IT operating costs where we previously expected to see savings in our September quarter.
Additionally our operating margin will decrease in the 24 to 29 basis point range from the revised fiscal '12 margin of 1.67%.
This represents a decrease in our operating margin of 16 to 17 basis points from our previous guidance.
The decrease in margin is due to the 2 items I just mentioned.
Additionally the third item negatively impacting margin is the increase in revenues from our PBM customer and the new Walgreens contract.
These 3 items I called out are all negatively impacting margin by about 5 to 6 basis points each.
Free cash flow.
We expect free cash flow to be in the range of $100 million to $200 million which includes the significant working capital build to support the Walgreens contract.
This includes CapEx of at least $220 million.
Share repurchases.
Our share repurchase expectation continues to be $400 million in fiscal 2013.
Before I wrap up let me comment briefly on LIFO.
We continue to operationalize the Walgreens contract.
This means that we are working to understand the brand inventory build primarily occurring in July and August.
For example the brand inventory build could be $1 billion or more.
This means we are likely to have an unusually high mix of branded inventory at fiscal year end.
As we have commented in the past brand inflation has been in the 9% to 10% range the last couple of years.
This could translate to a non-cash LIFO expense of $100 million or more.
In our June quarter we expect to be able to forecast our annualized LIFO expense as we'll have clarity on brand inventory requirements.
This means that we will be in a position to record a 9-month true-up to our LIFO annualized expense.
The remaining 25% of the annualized LIFO expense will be recorded in the September quarter.
One final LIFO comment.
The incremental EPS benefit of $0.20 in fiscal 2014 from the Walgreens-Alliance Boots transaction that we highlighted on March 19 did not include a LIFO assumption given the complexities around LIFO and the timing of on-boarding the Walgreens generic business.
This wraps up my prepared comments this morning.
I appreciate your patience as we work through the financial details and thank you for your continued interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Go ahead operator.
[Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from the line of Mr.
Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So Steve you mentioned the joint venture and how this benefits the ProGen program from the better generic purchasing.
Before AmerisourceBergen was included with Walgreens and Alliance Boots Walgreens had sized what they thought the purchasing synergies were from their joint venture.
Can you maybe just help us think about the potential savings that could be realized over time from this particular part of the agreement with Walgreens and Alliance Boots? So first of all this is a fairly complex work that involves many other parties the generic manufacturers these are global organizations.
Almost all of them -- we met with the CEOs of all of these organizations over the last few days and almost all of them have established relationships with all 3 companies.
So we really are creating an unprecedented platform here and it's going to take time.
We are a significant amount of generic volume to almost all of these suppliers' global business.
So we're going to be very thoughtful and planful about this.
We really expect that the benefits from the Walgreens-Alliance Boots development relationship would really start accruing in fiscal year 2015 which will also coincide with when we have the full run rates for the generic distribution.
But we expect that this will be significant because we think we've got a significant value proposition back to the manufacturers the scale that we have the ability to do long-term contracting.
And that message is really being well received.
These various conversations that -- I had an accelerated amount of conversations in the last few days.
We did a lot of those conversations on a joint basis and have been very encouraging.
So we think that this is going to be probably one of the most significant areas of opportunity that we have between the 3 companies especially from 2015 on.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
I guess also Steve you mentioned the goal of significantly improving margins beyond fiscal '14 and kind of ties into this arrangement.
But I mean can you give us any goalpost around your expectations? I mean can the company -- given its customer mix and factoring in this unique contract can it get back to historical operating margin levels? And is that something you're thinking about in the next few years? Yes.
Hey Bob.
It's Tim.
I'll take this one.
Again Steve in his comments mentioned meaningful growth in the operating margin expansion.
Again we have to cycle through the on-boarding next year.
But getting to '15 and beyond historically we've been in the high-single digit kind of range.
And again I think we will get back there in terms of growth.
And that's our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could just sneak one more in Tim while I have you.
I know back when the arrangement was struck there was some discussion around hedging around the warrant dilution.
Any update there? And is that something you guys are still contemplating? Yes -- no great question.
We did talk about it.
We continue to do a fair bit of work on hedging.
We're at the point now where we're looking at some different alternatives Bob.
And we have a Board Meeting in the middle of May where we're going to make some recommendations.
So we're -- we'll have an update in the June quarter but it's still top of our list to do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess first a housekeeping one maybe for Tim.
I just want to make sure.
It sounds like the cost to sort of implement the Walgreens contract and deal-related costs are included in the guidance as sort of a negative.
So a is that right? And b care to size maybe what you're going to be spending to implement it? No it's -- Tom I mean you're right.
It is in our guidance.
We called that out again one of the reasons why our margin is down.
We called out the basis point drop so definitely in our guidance.
We don't want to really call out the specific pieces.
I did give some kind of a broad range broad stroke in terms of about 5 to 6 basis points for that first bucket which is the deal costs on-boarding costs which includes the rebate.
So that's about as far as we're willing to go at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve in your prepared remarks you talked about lots of customer -- lots of conversations with various constituencies including customers.
I think some of us had done our own work talking to people in the channel.
But can you maybe dive a little deeper into the conversations that you had and what customers are asking you in terms of both the opportunities that they are looking for as a result of this and as well as some of the concerns maybe that you've heard and how you sort of balance of those? Yes.
When we made the announcement obviously it was a big news.
I think we really caught a lot of people by surprise which is a good thing.
We -- given that it was a very confidential relationship.
So I think we had -- there was definitely about as much upside or downside in the communication plan as maybe in any other investment or transaction contract that we've entered into and certainly in my experience.
So the team was very well prepared.
We've met with all of our top 20 customers in person.
We've met with as I said all the key suppliers.
And I think we've got long-term relationships with many of the customers and our industry tends to have long-term relationships and very integrated relationships with our customers.
So I think the history of our industry has been that the wholesalers being strong is good for the customers and this agreement we believe strengthens our -- strengthens and adds to our long-term prospects in a virtuous way.
So those conversations we've been able to do in person and we've all been very active.
And I think that the tone is really -- they ended up in a very good way.
People understand this.
We've had to talk through the equity component as being one of the concerns.
Board seats we've discussed.
The Board seat lands up being commensurate with the holdings in AmerisourceBergen.
These various options and the right to purchase stock in the open market.
We've had to explain all these different things.
We've got very large sophisticated customers.
We've got smaller customers.
We've got large suppliers that probably understand what Walgreens-Alliance Boots development corporation was -- their goals were.
We've got some that have never heard about that before.
So we really are -- we've been very planful very thoughtful.
But I'll sincerely tell you that where we sit 1 month off the announcement is in a good place with the majority of our customer -- almost all of our customers and suppliers.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Glen Santangelo of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I could just follow up.
Tim I was kind of curious about -- just looking at the year-over-year results in the Drug Corporation it kind of seems like the operating profit was maybe down a little bit more than maybe what I expected and it sounds like you're suggesting that maybe Lipitor and Zyprexa sort of being on that exclusivity this quarter last year had a big point to do with that.
But as you move out into 2Q if we were to strip out the specialty issue as well as some of the start-up costs around WAG is your overall drug businesses a positive year-over-year in terms of operating profit? Glen we are down in Q2 in this segment right? And I gave a little bit of color in terms of -- most of that being drug probably 2/3 drug; about 1/3 specialty.
Moving out for the second half of the year though Drug will be down year-over-year even if you strip out some of those items.
Again most of that do what we said from day 1 just a very challenging full year generic comparison and repricing of the PBM contract.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I could just ask one follow-up then.
It kind of sounds like within the Oncology business that the challenging environment is going to persist into the second half of the fiscal year and I think you sort of called out that it's just a challenging environment for the community specialists.
And can you just elaborate a little bit more on that Steve and maybe what's driving that and what the issue is and then ultimately how you rectify that situation to sort of reinvigorate the growth within that segment? Thanks Glen.
It's an excellent question.
So I've been -- I had 19 years with the company last week and almost all of that has been closely watching oncology business.
These are very smart businesspeople.
They're dealing with very expensive therapies.
And the ASP plus 6% has been -- for Medicare which is typically about half of each practice is somewhat finely balanced.
It's more or less of a -- you could say almost a breakeven on a lot of these therapies.
They don't often actually buy entirely ASP because of some other measurement in the reimbursement calculation.
So cutting this down by 2% was not expected.
So as we've got into the end of March I think a lot of practices started looking at their patients and maybe looking at treating Medicare patients in a different way or referring them to hospitals.
So we started to see some impact.
And that could be further accelerated.
Yes depending on what happens with the sequestration cuts there could be some budget resolutions in the next quarters.
But everyone is well aware that you don't need me to pile on the situation in Washington but it's extremely frustrating.
I have personally been along with James Frary Peyton Howell Rita Norton.
A lot of our leaders are just very very engaged in Washington in trying to explain that this is not a 2% cut.
And we took the time in our comments to illustrate why this is not a 2% cut for that small part of the margin spread that our customers are receiving.
It is somewhat to a 30% to 40% cut in that already fairly long margin.
So it's a concern and it could accelerate larger practices acquiring smaller practice which is a good trend for us.
We have a lot of the larger practices on ION and members on Oncology Supply customers.
But we've also seen -- say for example take a town like Louisville Kentucky.
5 years ago there were over 20 community practices there's only a handful now.
And what's happened is that the hospitals have acquired them and many times those become 340B practices and about 1/3 of the case about AmerisourceBergen customers.
So it's not like we lose the business but you lose the patients to community setting.
We don't have a comparative to ION in the hospital setting.
And it's why we have been adjusting some of our business goals to look at oncology more in different sites of care sometimes it's based on oral formulation sometimes it's based on oncology in a hospital setting or a heart patient setting so -- or a specialty pharmacy setting.
So I think I probably answered a lot on that question but I hope that's -- it's a complicated issue.
And as you can see we're on it.
Our group is as well positioned in the industry as we've ever been but these are issues that could really change the way cancer patients get treated.
Our next question will come from the line of Robert Willoughby of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve maybe it's kind of a same question.
But do you really think it's realistic to assume the higher inflation rate on the specialty drugs continuing? I mean aren't you expecting other cost management efforts by healthcare payers to contain that trend and wouldn't that influence your business? Yes.
So manufacturers take price increases.
That doesn't mean that the ultimate med pricing goes up by that much.
It gives specialty drugs -- the physician-administered like part B-type drugs I would say -- I don't have the exact data in front of me but it's not as high as 8% to 9% which is our traditional brand inflation and it would not be feasible to do that because of Part B reimbursement.
When we talk about specialty drug inflation as being in therapies like for rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis in particular has had very high brand inflation.
And that has slowed somewhat this year.
All right? Tim do you have any comment? No I think you're right Steve.
It's just not -- the trends on the oral solid you just don't see on the specialty side.
Research Division</strong> What are the payers doing? How are they slowing that rheumatoid arthritis trend? Well I think a lot of it has been managed by limited networks.
One of the visions for our partnership is to do more specialty products in the community setting whether it's through -- it's Walgreens Good Neighbor Pharmacy.
I think a lot of our customers are very interested in that.
We have a very strong what we call an alternate site segment.
That's something that we're planning to have a specialty network that's for qualified participants that AmerisourceBergen has been very involved in.
And then we do a lot of work with payers and try help them understand what some of the trends are.
And I'd note the growth in our Consulting Services business which helps with not only patient access but with managed care communication planning product launch support including pricing decisions comparative effectiveness -- these sort of areas.
So we've got well-developed practices.
Whatever the need of the manufacturer or the provider is -- and I think we're going to have -- we're going to be a key participant in any of the sites of care or any of the different formulations that arise.
Our next question will come from the line of George Hill of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Maybe to follow up on Glen and Bob's question Tim can you talk a little bit about the severity of the impact in the Oncology business and maybe remind us again about how big oncology is inside the specialty business and kind of the rate at which you're seeing the deceleration? Well Bob I mean -- or George I'm sorry.
Let me just -- again on Glen's comment I talked about that.
For this quarter we had about a $33 million change in that segment operating income again about 2/3 by drug 1/3 is related to specialty.
And we did have really good growth from our 3 businesses: the ASP Besse and Medical -- Besse Medical and ICS.
Just not enough to offset Oncology.
So I mean we don't want to get into a lot of specifics.
But again you can kind of look at what I just provided there.
Oncology is about 40% of ABSG revenues.
Those 3 businesses I talked about are about 60%.
And again if you put Oncology in perspective with ABC it's probably 7% of total ABC.
So again clearly an important business.
But we are starting to see as Steve mentioned some revenue declines that are persisting and we felt it was appropriate to call them out as we go forward in the 3 and 4.
Research Division</strong> Now that's great color.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up.
Given you're taking about the mix shift...
I'll just make one clarifying comment.
It's important -- when we talk about Oncology we're talking specifically about Oncology Supply and ION businesses.
And that enables us to -- the physician services and contracting we do in ION had been very meaningful.
And when we do other sites of care we don't get those contract benefits.
So that's why it's been important.
It's been as you know a great business for ABC.
We've been a great partner to Oncology.
So when we talk about Oncology -- here in this context we're talking about specifically the Oncology Supply and ION businesses.
We are doing a lot of other Oncology in our ICS business in our ASD business and more and more in our health systems business where we think we're doing over $4 billion in Oncology sales into the hospital channel.
So I just think it's important to clarify some of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve that's great clarification.
And then I guess one of my follow-up question was going to be is it seems a lot of this could be stemming also from the 340B initiatives at the hospital organizations all the data that I see would seem to indicate that they all want to step up kind of 340B program launches and utilization.
I guess can you talk about how you expect that to impact mix? Yes.
Well we service a lot of 340B hospitals.
I mean there has been a trend I believe that 40% of the hospitals in the U.S.
are now 340B-enabled or eligible.
And so -- and we're going to see what the impacts of the Affordable Care Act implementation are but -- and what's going to happen with the accountable care organizations.
So again some of these trends are very interesting.
You should be assured that ABC is monitoring that.
We believe we're well positioned.
But we're pointing out here it does affect our mix and the margin implementations depending upon mix -- how mix changes based on different sites of care and different changes.
But we -- some of these trends we will keep on trying to point them out to you when we have clear indications of where they're going.
But not -- they are about as many moving parts in the whole health system as in any time in my career.
Our next question will come from the line of Steven Valiquette of UBS.
Research Division</strong> So just to drill down on Tom's earlier question a little bit further.
I guess besides just positive discussion with customers I think there may already be some recent contract renewal examples like in service tangible evidence of customers not worried about potential conflicts of Walgreens.
So I guess just without going into specific details can you just confirm whether or not you've already made some progress in renewing some retail contracts following the announcement of Walgreens? Well thanks Steve.
We did resign our largest buying group customer that's about 1 000 stores $2 billion in revenue.
I personally met with their Board over the last few weeks and many of their members and they understand what we're trying to do here.
Again I think one of the key comments I made our new relationship with Walgreens really is pro the channel.
We're bringing a tremendous amount of lines into the system.
We're enhancing the productivity we're going to have in our distribution centers.
And the independents understand that the wholesale industry is their best friend.
And so some of the benefits that we're going to be having which is -- looking at the clinical platform together looking at third-party contracting I think definitely one of the immediate benefits I am seeing is the front-store -- what can we do to help GNP stores do even a better job in the front-store requirements that their customers are expecting in a newer more modern environment orientation towards healthier products more vaccines et cetera.
So we've talked to all these and I think our customers are trusting us on this.
And they will see us bring more benefits to their Good Neighbor Pharmacy program.
And I think the recent signing is -- was a vote of confidence in us absolutely.
Or next question will come from the line of Ms.
Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions around point of clarification.
Tim when you talked about 2015 and you talked about high-single digits were you talking about margins in 2015 as being a high-single digit or the growth rate that you think you can get back to in 2015? Growth rate.
The bps -- increase in bps Lisa.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly Steve I know you made a lot of comments around global opportunities with Alliance Boots and Walgreens.
Have you identified anything specifically that you think that will have some impact in the next year or so? Or do you believe there's longer-term opportunities? I think in terms of meaningful earnings to be honest I don't think we'll see anything in the business [indiscernible] next year.
We're working on a couple of joint manufacturers services RFP responses.
If those work that could be great test cases.
But some of these programs are a lot smaller.
I think there could be chances to make investments collaboratively between the 3 of us but those are dependent on the right opportunities emerging and that fit the criteria.
And of course we all 3 are independent companies and we've got our own set of respective shareholders.
So -- but when I talked about that third bucket -- just again some of the meetings we had this week we're really moving the dial up.
This transaction that we announced has caught a lot of people's attention and I believe it's -- people are waking up to the fact that it's a truly unique global platform with tremendous leadership capabilities talents on all sides of the table.
So I am really bullish on what the relationship is going to mean to our shareholders and customers.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that others will have to respond to this Steve? Do you think we'll see other type of purchasing consortiums on a global basis because of this based on the conversations you've been having out in the marketplace? Yes.
I mean it's a great question and I understand why you'd asked it.
But it's not up to me to speculate on what the outcomes could be.
I mean we saw the announcements this morning.
So again I think all of the large U.S.
wholesalers do a great job.
We all are very tight with our customers.
And I think it's just hard.
Again there's not many Walgreens out there there's not many Alliance Boots out there.
And of course I am particularly proud of AmerisourceBergen's capabilities and position in the channel.
Our next question will come from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I have some follow-up question here.
So first of all just a point of clarification hinting to Lisa's point you're saying that you're going to see a single-digit basis points growth or expansion in margin once '14 -- the base year of '14 is behind you.
So should we basically -- when we think about our long-term models and the impact here should we think about AmerisourceBergen going back to a '13 type of margin by 2016? Yes.
Ricky again I mean it's early.
We're still -- we haven't even looked at plans.
I mean we got a lot of runway to go here.
But certainly our goal has always been to lap and to on-board Walgreens the best we can best to our abilities and then in '15 start getting back to historical growth which again is at high-single digit is what we need to get our EPS in the mid-teens.
So I mean at this point I think that's pretty much all I'd like to say.
But we're very confident we can do that especially when you get out to those years.
As Steve mentioned earlier we have the benefits of the procurement JV kind of kicking in and again with a slower ramp-up.
But we're confident that we can get to the high-single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know it's very early on but have you seen any change in the competitive behavior from your distribution peers? I mean Ricky it's a very good question.
But no we don't expect it to be.
No I don't think so.
No I'll -- It's -- again it's only a month.
But no we don't think so.
We think again all 3 of us are public companies.
We report to shareholders and I -- we don't expect that there should be any discernible change in competitive trends because of this transaction.
Our next question will come from the line of Charles Rhyee of Cowens.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for Tim here.
Can you go over the -- your comments here on the LIFO charge and how you expect that to come out? And then can you help walk us through sort of how that will impact? And when we think about fiscal '14 you kind of made some comments about it's not being incorporated into the sort of $0.20 incremental benefit from Walgreens? Yes.
Sure Charles.
Let me go back and recap LIFO.
It's a certainly complicated area.
It really depends on how we on-board how much inventory we have to build.
We're working through that conversion plan which will probably be done in the end of May.
So we'll have a much better idea again.
And just how much brand inventory we have to bring on.
But the service to large customer [indiscernible] locations.
Again for the '13 impact you have to bring on a lot of brand inventory.
And again as I mentioned in my prepared comments it's really going to impact the mix.
Bringing -- typically in inflation right in LIFO you have high brand inventory high inflation rate but you also have generics.
Well we won't have that generic inventory from Walgreens until next year.
So again that's the reason why we're going to have the high LIFO expense this year.
Again the way we do our calculation is we always estimate LIFO on a full year basis.
So when we're in June and we close the June books we'll basically have to do a catch-up entry on that full year.
So we'll have to book 9 months a year-to-date true-up.
So again whatever entry -- whatever number we come up with 9 months of that will be booked in the June quarter and then the remaining 25% in the September quarter again non-cash item.
The other -- and again your second question about '14 is kind of what I covered earlier.
It's just at this point we haven't calculated anything on LIFO for '14.
I think it's clear it will be less because we're going to transition generics during '14.
But at this point we don't still don't know how quickly that will come and when we'll get that business fully on-boarded.
So when we know more details later in the year we'll update everyone.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But so -- but when we think about '14 though -- because we're going to take the charge here in fiscal '13 and we'll have some generics in '14 the absolute number will be less right? So...
Absolutely.
I'd fully expect again kind of knowing what I know today that that charge will be less in '14 again because we're going to have some amount of the generic inventory that will offset that brand high inflation.
So yes definitely less.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last clarification on that is -- In your guidance you don't back out LIFO charges or credits right even though we know them as being noncash? Well typically in the past LIFO has always been in our GAAP numbers right? I mean everything we presented historically LIFO has been in.
But this year for '13 because it's such a large number it's moving around.
We don't fully know the number.
It's not in our forward-looking guidance for '13.
In that $3.04 to $3.14 there's no LIFO impact in there.
And again in the number that we gave for incremental for '14 there's no LIFO assumption there either.
And that last question will come from the line of Mr.
John Ransom of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we just recap just to make sure everybody has this.
When you talk about your new guidance results coming at the bottom of the range can you just total up again what was not contemplated in your original guidance so we can have kind of an apples-to-apples look? Yes sure John.
I mean really that -- it kind of comes down to a couple of things.
One being the change in the -- in what I would call the base business.
I mean the softness in the Oncology revenues mostly a little bit of softness in World Courier.
And the third item there is just -- we always talked about getting some benefit to our P&amp;L in the fourth quarter post SAP implementation.
And again we won't have that.
So those 3 items really impacted our guidance.
And...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you're not including the warrant dilution and you're not including...
No let me get to that.
That's one bucket and the other bucket is clearly a couple of pennies from warrant dilution.
And again when we -- as we look out today for the rest of the year and where our share price is today we just made an assumption that our share price for 3 and 4 will be higher than that strike price.
And when you look at that we'll have to add some equivalent dilution we'll have to add some shares into our share count.
That's going to cost us a couple of pennies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So there's warrant dilution in oncology World Courier and all of that should total what $0.06 $0.07 something like that? Well we haven't sized it but that's the most that we're going to comment.
But...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine.
Okay.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then my other question is can you just go back to your -- the oncology reimbursement? Was that sequestration or was that a specific cut to Medicare B? John it was sequestration.
So April 1 it's -- and again I think regulators just don't understand.
They say "Well a 2% cut should be manageable." It's not a 2% cut because the practices don't have any ability to impact that ASP.
That ASP stays fixed.
And then what they have to work with is the -- what was once the 6% over their ASP number it's now 4% over their ASP number.
So it's definitely going to be impactful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And to be clear so you're thinking it's not that you're getting less margin yourself it's just that you're losing some practices to the bigger consolidators because they can't take the...
Yes.
Well in my comments I said that we -- there has been a trend towards practices selling.
Just in cardiology for example.
It was very very profound.
In oncology it's been a couple -- we've lost a couple of practices a quarter.
Many of them selling to other larger practices.
In most of the cases those larger independent and non-U.S.
oncology practices are our customers.
You've got market share in oncology has always been well known and understood but we're actually seeing that trend towards practices selling.
We think it could be enhanced now or accelerated now because of this additional reimbursement pressure.
And now before we go Steve would like to make some final comments.
Yes.
Thank you everyone for your attention today.
I know we went a bit longer than planned and we wanted to give you all -- as many of you as possible to ask questions because today's call was certainly more complex than our calls had been historically and -- but we appreciate your attention and interest in ABC.
[Technical Difficulty] Okay.
Again so we sincerely appreciate your attention and interest.
It is clear that this was a momentous quarter for ABC.
And we believe with the various steps we've taken this quarter including our performance in this quarter that we've significantly expanded our position in the supply channel and we have an opportunity to continue to create accelerated value for all of our stakeholders.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd just like to highlight a few of our upcoming events.
As we noted in our press release we'll be attending the Bank of America Health Care Conference in Las Vegas on May 14; the UBS Health Care Conference in New York on May 28; and the Goldman Sachs Health Care Conference in Rancho Palos Verde California on June 12.
That concludes our call for today.
And now I'll turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
We'd like to thank you for your attendance at today's ABC Second Quarter Earnings Teleconference Call and thank you for using AT&amp;T.
Have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen we'd like to thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Third Quarter Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call will be recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your hostess and facilitator Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Stephen.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call covering our third quarter fiscal year 2013 results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2012 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2013.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning.
I am pleased to report solid performance for AmerisourceBergen in our third quarter and first 9 months of fiscal 2013.
Let me start by highlighting a 13% increase in revenue which was driven primarily by our base business and less of a headwind from generics.
During the quarter we have had only a modest amount of new volume from our Walgreens contract.
As we look ahead to the end of our fiscal year '13 while there are obviously still some moving pieces that could potentially impact our results we are comfortable narrowing our forecasted range for adjusted earnings per share from continued operations for the full year to $3.06 to $3.11.
As we reviewed our performance it was clear to me that as usual AmerisourceBergen accomplished a great deal in the June quarter.
Our priorities continue to be to strengthen our business advance our strategic initiatives and generate long-term value for all of our stakeholders.
In accordance with those objectives we completed the divestitures of our Canadian drug wholesale business and our contract packaging business.
Most significantly we obtained regulatory clearance for the equity portion of our new long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
In light of the expansion of the scale of our business we improved our financial flexibility by commensurately expanding borrowing capacity under our revolver and securitization programs.
Our associates have worked tirelessly on these diverse objectives while keeping their eye on the ball and ensuring that our current business is performing well and we continue to meet and exceed the expectations of our customers and the patients we all ultimately serve.
It has been just over 4 months since we announced our strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots and I am more convinced than ever that we have before us an incredible long-term opportunity not only to increase efficiency with which healthcare is provided in the U.S.
but also to expand the reach of pharmaceuticals across the world and improve patient access to medications across many geographies.
Working in conjunction with Walgreens and Alliance Boots is proving to be very collaborative as we work to implement the 3 key components of the relationship namely the pharmaceutical distribution agreement with Walgreens the access to the Walgreens and Alliance Boots purchasing joint venture and the leveraging of our collective strengths in different platforms both domestically and internationally.
In addition we always believe the equity warrants that were issued as part of the agreements not only gives our partners the opportunities to share in our future success but also clearly differentiates our relationship.
We are proud to be collaborating with 2 of the world's leading and most successful healthcare companies and I am very pleased with the energy and creativity with which we are moving forward.
In our various customer and manufacturer meetings I am constantly reminded how fortunate we are to play such an integral role in the changing health care landscape.
The health care marketplace is one of the most complex in the world but we believe that complexity yields opportunities.
AmerisourceBergen's diverse range of services and unique scale and reach places us in a pivotal position to take advantage of both opportunities by improving the efficiency with which products are launched distributed and dispensed and by helping to ensure that patients have access to the full complement of therapies that are available today.
The strategic initiatives we have undertaken in the last several months have strengthened our ability to provide greater service and more innovative solutions to all AmerisourceBergen's customers and to all of the manufacturers whose products we distribute and support in the marketplace every day.
The increasing rate of change demand that we continuously explore ways to drive efficiency without sacrificing the quality of care and service delivered and we are excited to be able to do that with the help of global partners.
Turning now to the performance of our business units in the June quarter.
Revenues in AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation were up 16% due primarily to an increase in sales volume relating from our previously announced new contract with our large PBM customer and less of a headwind from generic conversions in the quarter.
ABDC's revenues will continue to ramp up in our fourth quarter as we begin to serve all of Walgreens stores under our new contract.
We are making great strides in preparing our network for the on-boarding of the Walgreens pharmacy distribution business.
In addition to increasing capacity of certain aspects of our infrastructure we are running pilot programs which to date have enabled us to transact with about 6 000 of Walgreens pharmacy locations on a daily basis.
That number will continue to increase as we approach the September 1 start date of the new contract.
Pharmaceutical Distribution is of course our primary area of expertise and the foundation of our business and we remain quite confident that we can provide outstanding service to Walgreens without sacrificing any of the excellent service our other customers have come to expect from AmerisourceBergen.
Over the last several months we've had an open dialogue with our customers about what a stronger AmerisourceBergen could ultimately mean for them.
Tomorrow I'll be attending our annual retail tradeshow in Las Vegas where we will be showcasing our vision for the future of pharmacy and renewing our commitment to our independent customer base.
Whether it's through an improved Pro Generics formulary proprietary franchise store products new shared clinical systems that will facilitate third-party contracting or enhanced payer relationships our partnership with Walgreens and Alliance Boots will help drive compelling new offerings for our independent customers in the years ahead.
Our new partners share our goal of strengthening Good Neighbor Pharmacy and enhancing the role community pharmacy plays in the provision of health care.
We absolutely believe that the innovation that this new relationship will inspire will drive the next generation of services to our community pharmacy customers and we believe that this message is being understood and accepted by the marketplace.
Our institutional segment including both hospitals and alternate sites continues to perform very well.
Our efforts to expand some of our best-in-class specialty capabilities into the hospital market to support physicians who treat oncology patients continue to gain traction as many of our large health system customers expand their outpatient offerings.
As the specialty market evolves the breadth of our expertise is more important than ever.
The collaborative approach we've deployed over the last few years both internally and externally drives us to utilize all the capabilities of ABC to meet evolving customer needs.
Our work in this area is one of the best illustrations of how we can drive mutual value for our customers by leveraging our portfolio across different size of care.
Operating income in ABDC was down year-over-year as expected due to the decline in operating margin which resulted from the implementation of the new large PBM contract the loss of Topco and fewer significant generic launches available to offset that pressure in the quarter.
As expected trends in brand inflation generic utilization and even generic price inflation continue to be strong.
As I have mentioned previously we have had very difficult comparisons on generic launches in fiscal 2013 but those improved in fiscal 2014.
This was our first full quarter that all of our DCs were operating on SAP and we are very pleased with the performance of the system and advanced business analytics that this system affords us.
The SAP implementation was from planning to completion over 5 years of incredible effort by ABC associates.
It is that system that has really placed us in a position to essentially double our volume over the next year or so and I am incredibly grateful for the professional effort that so many people at ABC contributed to at the highest level that got us to this position today.
AmerisourceBergen's Specialty Group revenues were up 5% in the quarter due to strong sales in ASD and Besse.
As expected our Oncology business slowed in the quarter on a year-over-year basis as physician practices continue to face economic challenges in the face of declining reimbursement rates.
Specialty physicians continue to work through the significant reimbursement cuts that resulted from sequestration.
And while all practices are challenged the smaller practices are hit the hardest.
We continue to work in Washington to help members of Congress and regulators at CMS and elsewhere to make sure they understand the full impact the cuts have had not just on physician impacts but also on patient access.
We believe that in order for the health care system to operate at optimum efficiency health care providers must be fairly reimbursed for the services they provide to all payer categories.
We also continue to believe that patients are best served in the community practice setting.
Not only do patients tend to have better outcomes being treated in a dedicated specialty setting but current data supports that the cost of care is lower in the community setting.
We are hopeful that at a minimum the sequestration cuts will be reversed in the current months.
But at this time it is difficult to know when or by what mechanism that would occur.
While Oncology Supply sales declined year-over-year sales stabilized on a sequential basis.
Fortunately as Oncology sales have slowed our other Specialty businesses have continued to grow above market by winning unique distribution opportunities and progress.
These businesses do have somewhat lower margins than the Community Oncology business does so there's been a mix shift towards lower margin business within ABSG and their growth was not enough to overcome the decline in operating margin contribution from Oncology Supply.
While the specialty market is changing and working to near-term challenges the expertise and capabilities we've developed over the years and investments we've made help ensure that we are the premier partner for manufacturers of specialty products and for providers who administer specialty products to patients.
Turning now to the Other segment that is comprised of our manufactures services businesses revenues were up 17% due in large part to contributions from World Courier of which 1 month was not included in the prior year.
Operating income was up 18% driven in large part by good performance in World Courier.
We continue to be very excited about the long-term potential for our manufacturer services businesses both in the U.S.
and elsewhere in the global marketplace.
Looking ahead we are still working through our detailed business planning process and will give our full fiscal 2014 guidance in our new fourth quarter call.
As we have previously stated we expect our new Walgreens contract to provide incremental revenues of $25 billion in fiscal 2014 and to contribute a net $0.20 of adjusted earnings per share in fiscal 2014.
As we on-board the Walgreens contract we will see further operating margin degradation.
But once we anniversary that impact we expect to return to a model where we are able to meaningfully increase our operating margins on an annual basis.
There are many moving parts in late fiscal 2013 and 2014 in addition to activities and cost associated with on-boarding Walgreens.
These tailwinds include more generic launches in fiscal 2014 versus 2013 better industry top line growth due to the generic calendar and the gradual influx of the uninsured into the health care system.
The headwinds include unplanned expenses of at least $10 million in our distribution segment to comply with now pending track and trace regulations and continued pressure in our Oncology business at the current run rate.
This headwind could be mitigated if reimbursement rates improve.
But it could also -- would be worse if low reimbursement rates persist and physician practices increasingly struggle with the economics.
Overall our base business is solid and we do not have any large contract renewals on the horizon.
Our business also provides us with tremendous cash flow and we anticipate that cash flows will be strongest in the second half of fiscal 2014.
While ABDC has plenty on its plate at the moment we continue to look for opportunities to invest in our platform to provide for sustainable long-term growth.
We believe the scale and breadth of our offerings sets us apart in the industry and is a key driver of our future success.
It is an exciting time to be a customer supplier associate shareholder or other stakeholder in AmerisourceBergen.
We have a great deal of work ahead of us but I am confident that our associates will continue to bring innovative and market-leading solutions to all of the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead and that we will continue to meet the expectations that all of our partners have in us.
Now Gary's turn.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As has been our practice my comments on our financial results will be on a GAAP basis.
As expected we have 2 unusual material expense items that are negatively impacting our June 2013 quarterly results the LIFO charge and the equity warrant expense.
Our LIFO charge was exceptionally high at $122 million and the warrant expense was $36 million.
As a reminder our previous EPS guidance excluded these 2 items due to their variability and difficulty in forecasting.
For clarity I will provide additional comments this morning on our adjusted results which will exclude the impact of these 2 noncash expenses.
We now have 9 months completed in our fiscal year 2013 and we're pleased with our progress in tracking to our expectations.
The highlights for the June quarter include solid top line growth in our core drug business very good operating performance in our World Courier business and excellent free cash flow of $681 million through the first 9 months slightly ahead of our expectations and setting us up well as we prepare to implement the Walgreens contract.
Let's start our review of our quarterly results.
Keep in mind that we sold our Canadian drug distribution business and our contract packaging business this quarter.
Their operating results are reflected as discontinued in both the current year and in the revised financials for the prior year.
In addition this marks the last quarter that we have an incremental benefit from the World Courier acquisition in our financial results as we have now anniversaried the May 2012 acquisition date.
Revenues were $21.9 billion up 13.3% percent compared to last year's quarter.
Our revenue growth was primarily due to our large PBM contract that began last October and a much smaller headwind from brand-to-generic conversions.
Gross profit decreased to $562 million due to the LIFO charge of $122 million that I mentioned previously.
This charge represents 9 months of our anticipated full year or annual charge.
As expected this charge is material due to the substantial brand inventory build over $1 billion we will have in the fourth quarter as we prepare for the Walgreens business beginning in September.
Based on current inflation and inventory mix estimates we'd expect our Q4 LIFO charge to be in the $50 million range.
Our gross profit also included about $6 million of antitrust litigation settlements received in the June quarter.
Excluding the LIFO charge our gross profit would've increased nearly $17 million or about 2.5% due to the 1 extra month of World Courier contributions of about $30 million.
Excluding World Courier our gross profit was down year-over-year due to lower contributions from our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter total operating expenses were $428 million up about 24%.
Our operating expenses are impacted by the 1 extra month of World Courier's operations.
Demonstrating our focus on expense management our operating expenses for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment are up only 2% year-over-year while revenues have increased significantly.
Incremental operating costs specifically to support the new Walgreens distribution contract were not meaningful this quarter.
These costs primarily labor and IT cost will ramp up beginning in early Q4.
Included in GAAP operating expenses is warrant expense of $36 million.
The current value of the warrants at June 30 2013 as determined by an independent third party was $467 million which is an increase of about $153 million from the March 31 value.
The increase in the warrant valuation is due to the increase in the ABC share price and also the increase in the ABC share price volatility assumption.
This quarter we also had special charges of about $20 million or an equivalent $0.05 negative EPS impact primarily related to professional fees associated with completing our Walgreens and Alliance Boots transaction.
Included in this $20 million amount is also a loss related to subleasing a closed distribution center below our current lease cost.
Operating income.
Our operating income was $135 million.
However backing out the LIFO charge and the warrant expense our adjusted operating income would have been $293 million or a decrease of about 10%.
The decrease is due to lower gross profit in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment and the additional onetime special charges that I just discussed.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.34% down by 34 basis points compared to last June quarter.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense of approximately $18 million in the June quarter decreased about 23% compared to last year due to the debt that we paid off last September.
Income taxes.
Our effective income tax rate was nearly 45%.
However our income tax rate is being negatively impacted by warrant expense.
The current valuation of our warrants the $467 million at June 30 2013 that I referenced earlier is in excess of our March 18 warrant valuation of $242 million which approximates the amount of expense that we will be able to deduct for tax purposes.
Any dollar amount in excess of the initial warrant valuation will not be deductible.
The excess amount is considered a permanent tax difference.
On an adjusted basis which means we are removing the nondeductible dollars associated with the warrants our effective tax rate for the June 2013 quarter was 37.4% which represents a tax provision of about $102 million.
This quarter we did have a favorable tax adjustment related to the reversal of a reserve that coincided with our federal tax return filing.
Excluding the impact of the warrants and any nondeductible tax amounts we'd expect our full year fiscal 2013 tax rate now to be approximately 38% for continuing operations.
Our GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the June quarter was $0.27.
On an adjusted basis adjusting for LIFO warrant expense and the negative tax rate impact our diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.73 a decrease of about 1%.
Our EPS benefited from an 8% reduction in our average diluted shares outstanding versus the prior year's quarter.
At June 30 2013 we had just under 231 million shares outstanding.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the June quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were $21.5 billion up 13% versus the same quarter last year.
Growth at our Drug Company was approximately 16%.
The majority of the increase was due to our new contract with our large PBM customer.
This quarter we expanded our brand business with our PBM customer as we added one new large brand manufacturer that the PBM previously self-distributed.
This incremental business is at the typical margin for our PBM customer.
We also had increased revenues from the Walgreens pilot programs.
But this revenue basically offset the negative revenue impact from the Topco contract loss.
Additionally our top line growth clearly benefited from having a much smaller headwind from brand-to-generic conversions.
Our Specialty business grew a solid 5% year-over-year.
We continued our pattern of excellent growth at our ASD Besse Medical and ICS businesses.
These 3 businesses were up a combined 16%.
Our Oncology Supply business down about 10% continues to be challenged on a top line basis due to reimbursement pressures and the migration of business to the hospital setting and also brand-to-generic conversions.
These sales growth percentages are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we've communicated these growth rates in the past.
Total adjusted segment operating income decreased $20 million or about 7% to $287 million in the June quarter.
Both Drug and Specialty had decreases in operating income year-over-year.
Drugs decrease was due to lower contributions from our PBM contract and the loss of the Topco contract.
We also had loss of a contribution from oral/solid generic launches.
These headwinds were mostly offset by better generic price appreciation.
In terms of Specialty they had higher contributions directly related to the increased revenues at ASD Besse Medical and ICS.
However these increases could not completely offset the decrease from our Oncology Supply business.
Moving to the Other reporting segment.
As a reminder this segment is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
Segment revenues were $467 million an increase of 17% from in last year's quarter.
The increase was primarily due to World Courier having 1 extra month of operations included in the June 2013 quarter as compared to the prior year quarter.
However looking at the World Courier revenues on an equivalent sales per day basis their revenues increased about 10% primarily due to additional contract wins.
Operating income for the Other segment increased 18% to $25 million for the same quarter last year.
The increase was solely related to contributions from World Courier.
This business had 1 extra month of operations compared to last year's quarter but World Courier also had several new business wins and they managed expenses tightly.
We expect World Courier to contribute $0.06 to $0.08 earnings in this fiscal year.
Our Consulting business had a decrease in operating income of about 8% primarily due to timing.
A key program shifted to July this fiscal year versus being recognized in the June quarter last year.
Now let's turn to cash flow and liquidity.
As I mentioned earlier we are very pleased with our free cash flow performance $681 million for the 9-month period.
This is just slightly ahead of last year while absorbing a working capital increase on our new PBM contract.
We ended June with a cash balance of approximately $1.6 billion.
In the June quarter we purchased about 2.1 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $116 million.
Our share repurchases basically offset employee stock option exercises in the quarter.
For the 9 months we are now at $401 million of share repurchases which is essentially what we said we'd buy back this year.
Moving to our hedging program.
As a reminder this program enables ABC to offset a reasonable amount of the anticipated share dilution which will occur upon the exercise of the warrants.
Earlier in the June quarter we entered into 4 capped call options that gave ABC the right to purchase a specified number of shares from the investment bank in calendar 2016 and 2017 at agreed-upon or fixed prices.
We will use proceeds from the exercise of the warrants to purchase these shares.
At June 30 the investment bank has completed about 20% of the hedge and we've incurred cost of roughly $43 million of which we paid $28 million and accrued the remaining balance.
For accounting purposes the $43 million of hedging cost has been reported as a decrease against equity similar to how we account for share repurchases.
We expect the hedge to be completed by fiscal yearend.
However at any time we can instruct the investment bank to adjust or end the hedging activities based on market conditions.
One final item before we get into 2013 guidance.
As many of you know we recently announced that we increased our liquidity by amending our senior credit and securitization facilities.
With these 2 amended facilities we have increased our liquidity by nearly $1 billion which enables us to meet short-term working capital demands from the new Walgreens contract and most importantly to increase longer-term flexibility as we now have liquidity available for 5 more years.
We thank all of our partner banks that continue to support ABC.
Now let's recap our fiscal 2013 guidance.
EPS.
Our full year non-GAAP adjusted EPS from continuing operations is now $3.06 to $3.11.
Year-to-date we are at an adjusted EPS of $2.35.
Please remember that our range excludes 3 items: one the LIFO charge for fiscal '13; two the impact from warrant expense that we record in operating expenses; and three the tax impact from the warrants as a portion of this expense is not deductible for tax purposes.
Revenue growth.
Revenue growth remains in the 11% to 13% range from our revised fiscal 2012 revenues which excluded our discontinued operations.
Operating income and margin.
Excluding the impact from LIFO and warrants we continue to expect our operating income will be down 3% to 5% for the year as compared to the revised fiscal '12 operating income.
And our operating margin will decrease in the 24 to 29 basis point range from the revised fiscal '12 margin of 1.67%.
Free cash flow.
We expect free cash flow to be in the range of $100 million to $200 million which reflects the significant working capital build to support the Walgreens contract.
This also includes CapEx of about $240 million of which about $50 million is to support our new Walgreens contract.
Share repurchases.
As mentioned previously for the 9 months we stand at $401 million in share repurchases which is essentially what we guided for the year.
At this time we expect to stay near this level due to short-term capital needs to support the Walgreens contract implementation specifically inventory purchases and CapEx.
Now before I wrap up let me cover 3 key items related to our fiscal 2014 guidance.
First just to reconfirm the incremental fiscal year 2014 guidance we gave relating to the Walgreens transaction the net $0.20 EPS benefit this amount excludes any accounting impact from LIFO and the warrants.
Also we expect the $0.20 to be mostly back-end-loaded in terms of our quarters because we are incurring startup expenses early and ramping the Walgreens generic revenues during the fiscal year.
The second item.
As we look ahead to fiscal 2014 we plan to provide guidance and report our financial results on an adjusted basis in order -- in an effort to improve clarity and transparency.
We will continue to report our GAAP results but we will also report adjusted earnings.
Our definition of adjusted EPS means we will exclude the following items: We will exclude the expense associated with the equity warrants and this also includes backing out the negative tax impact from the portion of the expense that is nondeductible; we will exclude LIFO charges or credits; we will also exclude acquisition-related costs which include intangible amortization.
Any special onetime restructuring litigation and severance expenses will also be excluded.
And additionally we will calculate our adjusted EPS using an adjusted diluted share count.
This share count will exclude the accounting dilution resulting from the impact of the unexercised equity warrants.
This quarter upon further accounting research and consultation we determined that the fair value of the warrants which is yet to be expensed over $400 million at June 30 should be included as assumed proceeds in the treasury stock method calculation.
This inclusion can reduce or actually eliminate the dilution impact of the warrants which are currently in the money.
As a result the warrants were anti-dilutive for the quarter and for the 9 months ended June 30 2013.
We believe that using an adjusted share count is appropriate as the share count calculation is complex and also has a high degree of variability.
This will ensure a consistent approach with investors when calculating and forecasting our share count going forward.
And finally the third item regarding our guidance.
With the on-boarding of the Walgreens contract as we have discussed in the past we will have a sizable working capital investment.
We expect our working capital to improve the second half of fiscal 2014.
Because of this we'd expect that our share repurchases will be much greater the second half of the fiscal year to coincide with our working capital improvement.
As I wrap up my comments let me say that we are pleased with our results through the 9 months.
We've accomplished a significant amount this fiscal year with our ABC team and we are well positioned for our last 3 months to meet our expectations for the full year.
Thank you for your continued interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Stephen.
Our first question will come from the line of Mr.
Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Tim you mentioned that you had some more business with I guess your biggest PBM customer in the quarter and there were some pilot programs going on with Walgreens.
We got a lot of questions about gross margins in the quarter.
Could you just sort of convey where gross margins came in versus your expectations and if they were pressured I guess incrementally by the Walgreens pilots as well as the extra business to I assume with Express? Yes thanks Tom.
Yes sure.
I would say that externally our gross profit margins were probably a little bit lower than what people expected but internally they were in line with what we thought.
Again we had a mix shift within our Drug Company; 2 of our large customers the PBM and Walgreens both had incremental revenues this quarter and again at lower margins.
We also had a little bit of a mix shift in our Specialty business the 3 businesses I called out their revenues are growing faster versus Oncology.
So I mean overall pretty much in line with what we expected.
But again I think the important thing is we managed our expenses really well this quarter and from an operating margin standpoint we're right in line with the range that we gave earlier in the year.
And remember earlier in the year we guided down 24 to 29 basis points.
So from an operating margin standpoint we're right in line with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve I think in your prepared remarks you sort of alluded to the idea that conversations with customers were going well.
You also said you've been meeting with manufacturers.
Can you maybe give us a little bit more color on the things that the customers are focused on as well as what the manufacturers are focused on with you and I guess any update or thoughts on sort of the timing of benefiting from the joint venture with Walgreens on the purchasing side? Yes thanks Tom.
So a couple of things.
Just this thing we started with manufacturers we actually met with probably our largest manufacturer partner last week.
And I think just a lot of interest in doing more programs at the retail level.
A lot of acknowledgment that the scale and reach that we have has really been greatly enhanced intrigue on the international side.
On the customer side the idea really is strengthening and enhancing the role of community pharmacy.
And again the first time that Greg Wasson and Stefano Pessina and I discussed this transaction it came down to how do we accomplish that what are the different attributes that all of our companies have that can help us accomplish that.
And 4 months into it obviously the focus in the Drug Company has to be in the contract implementation.
But we're very mindful of the fact that our customers are expecting to get strategic benefits from this transaction so we're looking at third-party contracting we're looking at clinical platforms we're looking at front-store products even some of the very advanced services that Walgreens has the Take Care Clinics could reach in some of those into the community setting.
So all of that is very positive and we're thrilled about the collaboration that we're seeing.
On international side Tim and I were in London with the Alliance Boots folks.
Just a talented successful team of professionals that we think we can do a lot of good work with over the next couple of years.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from the line of Glen Santangelo of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tim I just want to follow up with some of the comments you were making when you were discussing the accretion from the deal.
I think I heard you correctly you seem to suggest that the accretion next year will be more back-end-loaded and I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate a little bit on why that's the case.
I mean obviously the branded revenues are going to roll on pretty soon.
Is it more a function of the timing when generics roll on or is it more of a function of the timing of the benefit from the JV? Thanks Glen and good morning.
No clearly it's related to the ramp-up.
We're ramping up now in July we're starting the hiring process for our distribution centers.
So ramp-up expenses earlier and then we start with the brand business.
And that generic business ramps up over time so over the fiscal year.
So again a lot of it's timing: expenses earlier and the generics later.
And that's really why kind of looking at it from a high level we expect the earnings to be better the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And maybe if I could just sort of follow up.
Steve there's been a fair amount of concern about the company's ability to ultimately get much better generic pricing from this JV.
And so I'm kind of curious 4 months after the deal's been announced are you still comfortable with sort of the level of discounts you'd be able to get through your generic purchasing? I mean how much visibility do you have into what you think your new pricing will look like at this point? So I'm just trying to gauge how comfortable you are in terms of the ability to garner those savings.
It's complicated right? And I'm really not being evasive.
We've got a lot of work to do.
Again we came in to this relationship as the third largest entity and again we're not really a party to the JV that was already established between Walgreens and Alliance Boots and we've been buying to that we're just the third contracting party in that joint venture.
So we have a lot of confidence we've spent a lot of time we would have a significant role in the joint venture including consigned associates.
But I think our goal is to be very successful in the long term.
Most of the parties on the other side the generic manufacturers are large public companies.
They have their own forecasts.
Again we'll be contracting for 13% to 15% of the world's generics volume.
So we've been very thoughtful and deliberate and the game is to be successful in the long term.
And we are more convinced than ever that that is going to be accomplished.
Thanks Glen.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Robert Jones of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> There are some concerns highlighted last quarter relative to the Oncology business and now you're making mention of softness related to the oncology reimbursement landscape again this quarter.
Growth overall for ABSG seemed to be up sequentially in year-over-year.
Just trying to get a sense of how we should be thinking about the overall Specialty segment or the overall ABSG segment in the back half of this year and into next year.
I know you guys had laid out kind of annual ranges at your Investor Day.
Any comments relative to those ranges of how we should be thinking about that segment going forward? Again I think we would -- looking at how we can communicate this so Oncology our traditional Oncology segment is really sales through Oncology Supply to community oncologists.
And that clearly as we announced has been 10% down this quarter compared to the same quarter last year.
That's not really -- we don't believe it's through loss of market share.
It really is that that some smaller practices have sold to larger practices many of which are our customers and we sometimes take -- obviously larger customers get a better deal and a smaller customer is more challenged by the ASD formulary.
So that has been some of the impact.
There also have been some practices that sell to health systems.
In about 1 in 3 cases we would be the wholesaler there.
So we do benefit but again that's not as high a margin as we have in Oncology business based on the ION and Oncology Supply portfolio.
But the other trend that I think is worth noting is that oncology products are often in different formulations now.
Many of them are oral; they service through specialty pharmacies.
That's a very strong segment and our ultimate cash segment within the Drug Company but also in specialized programs that we do say in our ASD and in non-oncology in our Besse Medical segment.
And these are very close manufacture programs often with registries and unique data components to them.
And I think we've highlighted in the release we have strong capabilities in Specialty and you've seen that come through with -- in our above market growth in our ASD and Besse businesses in particular and some unique manufacture programs in our ICS business which by the way we think we've got a good opportunity to take some of those programs internationally.
Yes Bob I would say that your question about the margins the operating margins that we put up for Investor Day we're still in the range but we're priced to the lower end of that range for Specialty and again a lot of that is the mix shift right to the lower margin businesses ASD Besse Medical ICS.
But also remember back in the March quarter we guided down on our range we kind of moved down to the lower end.
So again that $0.03 or $0.04 movement last March was really pegged to Oncology right? So that's probably what you could see maybe going into next year in terms of kind of a little bit of a headwind until reimbursement improves or until we kind of anniversary because again we -- that was March of last year.
So until we anniversary that's potentially what you're looking at again as the headwind for next year.
And it's also important Bob just final point I know we've talked a lot about this but we're not backing off anything in our Oncology business.
Tim and I were down with the oncology guys a couple of weeks ago.
I think our customers need us more than ever.
There's an opportunity to carry on adding incremental value then.
We're very committed to being the leader provider to oncology practices as we have been for well over a decade now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
No that's truly helpful.
And then just one housekeeping question Tim.
You mentioned 3 major adjustments to when you give fiscal '14 guidance and I'm sure I can go back and look at the transcript but I just want to be clear on the warrants.
Is the change there really for us to think about the warrants as not impacting the adjusted P&amp;L at all at this point the expense will be removed? And then any dilution that could have happened will also now be excluded? Am I thinking about that right? Yes you're thinking about that correctly right.
It impacts operating expense it impacts -- the warrants impact the tax rate and of course the accounting.
There's an impact from the accounting dilution on the share count and we're stripping that out again because of complexity and variability in our share price.
And a big part of stripping that out too is the fact that we've implemented a hedge program which will address the share dilution.
So that's why we feel like it's appropriate to back that out and not impact in terms of this interim period when the warrants are unexercised.
Thanks Bob.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Willoughby of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Tim just to be clear on the D&amp;A are we just going to carry forward the current run rate here without any incremental inputs from the Walgreens Alliance Boots aspects? Or are you looking at backing out some historical deal amortization as well? No I think Bob -- Bob thanks for the question.
No I think we will -- historically the number's not that significant so we are thinking about backing out all of it the historical also and it's probably about $0.01 a quarter.
Most of it -- most of that though is from the last 2 deals World Courier and TheraCom but there is a little bit extra that we felt like we should back out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And obviously there were some news from WellPoint today that the Amerigroup contract's going to move earlier.
Any thoughts on sizing that one as yet or too soon for you guys to make a guess there? No too soon and again the margin is not that significant for us Bob.
But certainly we hope our PBM customer is a very strong grower and you've seen that in the revenue enjoyed in the Drug Company this quarter.
Thanks Bob.
Our next question will come from the line of Ricky Goldwasser of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve in the prepared remarks you talked about the significant margin expansion opportunity post fiscal year '14.
So if you can just help us with how we model the progression for '14 '15 and '16.
If you could quantify for us kind of like the step down in margin in fiscal year '14 and then what should we expect in fiscal year '15? I know in the last conference call you guys talked about high single digit I think it was 8 to 10 basis points expansion in '15.
So at this point are you still sticking with that or given that some time has passed you are seeing some potential upside to that number? Well we're really deep in our fiscal year '14 planning process and I think you'd see from the caliber of Tim's comments here we have a lot more moving financial pieces than we have historically have.
As somebody once said it's not as easy as ABC anymore.
But we do really -- I think the we had talked a lot prior to the announcement of the Walgreens-Alliance Boots deal about improving our operating margin in fiscal year '14 and we relayed the focus on that.
Then came along this transaction and $25 billion in incremental revenue and a lot of the top line revenue's really brand and we're implementing the generics over time.
And part of that is just not entirely known how we will implement the generics.
Clearly once we anniversary the whole contract it will be better for us on a margin perspective.
We also are -- and we're working through this of course.
When you bring on a contract of this size some of the expenses that will be taken on right away in September but also in the first couple of months will probably be enhanced and then will settle down over time.
So I think just to give you the answer you're probably looking for our expectation right now is that in fiscal year '15 we would see a high single digits operating margin increase.
That's where we'll be guiding to.
But we're deep in fiscal year '14 now so we hesitate to get too explicit about fiscal year '15.
But Tim's probably the better guy to ask about this though.
Yes Steve I would definitely agree.
I mean '14 will take a little bit of a step back with all that incremental revenue coming on board.
For '15 we definitely will have margin expansion at least.
And again I say at least high single digits.
And I would expect that to get better after that again as we kind of ramp up and enjoy some of the benefits of this transaction.
That would be our internal expectation.
Research Division</strong> So when -- again just when we think about the step down in '14 just because we're trying to kind of like figure out how to model this should we assume a similar magnitude of the step down that you saw when you brought on the Express business given that Walgreens yes it's a bigger contract but it does have both branded and generics or should the impact be greater than that? No Ricky that's a tough one right because we're still in our planning process I mean.
But I don't think the step down will be as great as what we had this year with Express right? Because again next year you have both the brand and some generics coming on board.
Our next question will come from the line of Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question around the JV purchasing opportunity from 2 fronts.
One Steve is there any way to quantify what you expect the synergies or savings to be over time? And then secondly when you talk about your ProGen can you talk about what your penetration rates are today and where you think they could go based on this new opportunity around pricing on the JV? Do you see a lot of opportunity in your existing book of business where you can really increase that penetration rate because you're not there today? How should we think about that? Lisa I mean there's a lot of interest and we don't believe -- a lot of interest in exactly what the contribution will be from the JV and we're really as we said -- it's complicated right? We're buying from a Swiss entity it's a new relationship it's a groundbreaking relationship.
So we really feel like we're giving enough guidance.
We feel like that $0.20 that we've talked about for next year is much as we're comfortable saying right now.
And clearly the benefit will be much more enhanced in fiscal year '15 when we're distributing all the generics.
So I think that's a lot of about what we said and -- on that front.
Your second question was around ProGen.
We do believe that this is going to strengthen ProGen.
I think almost every customer inherently recognizes that not only ourselves but the whole wholesaler industry has been a good part of the community pharmacy.
From our perspective those community pharmacies and all the customers that buy generics from us have always been essential to the success of our business and that probably even becomes more so because we believe we're going to have really terrific programs to bring them greater product portfolios not only in generics but in brands store and also the non-purchasing programs.
So I think as Tom had asked earlier and I think almost every customer inherently recognizes that.
And on Friday I'm giving a speech to a couple of thousand of our stores and certainly will be emphasizing that.
And I think our customers really understand that and the good news is manufacturers also recognize that this is a truly unique partnership that has got a lot of legitimacy to it because of equity pieces because of the tenure distribution contract and the marketplace is accepting that this is a new groundbreaking opportunity for them and for us as well.
Research Division</strong> But Steve is there any way I mean even just to quantify this in any way is it greater than 50% buy for generics from you today on the independent pharmacy side? Is it 90%? Just trying to quantify what that incremental opportunity would be going forward.
So we service thousands of stores on some basis.
We have about 4 500 in the Good Neighbor Pharmacy.
Those customers are the ones that we really like to focus on.
In fact we've got some data we have a couple of customers that are celebrating 29 years with us.
They will be calling out on Friday [indiscernible].
So those customers tend to be very compliant.
I think we've seen some data that show that they're buying over 90% of their formulary products from us.
We want to get all customers today when we meet with any independent pharmacy that's an AmerisourceBergen customer we try to get them to be in the Good Neighbor Pharmacy program.
I believe and I believe Tom will prove me right our Good Neighbor Pharmacy is only going to be greater enhanced.
The actual program is going to be stronger.
So if you're an independent pharmacy and you believe that ABC is a good partner I think that there's a lot of logic to you being more compliant rather than less and more interested in becoming a part of ABC and a greater customer than you have had in the past.
And that's going to be our message.
And honestly I haven't heard anyone that dispels that notion that I've had.
In fact it's being understood.
It's very logical and compelling frankly.
Thanks Lisa.
Due to time constraints our last question will come from the line of Mr.
John Ransom of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As we think about your Specialty business the way it's -- the current run rate can you help us understand the relative contribution of Oncology versus the relative contribution of everything else both in terms of revenue and profits just to get some kind of idea of how much is growing versus how much is under pressure? John I've just said I know we got you under the wire I think we do have to move you up next year but it's -- you've always really been interested in our Specialty business we appreciate that.
And Tim do you want to comment on the risk [ph] of contribution? Yes we don't -- John I mean I appreciate the question but we really don't give specific operating income information.
But from a revenue standpoint when you look at again the businesses the non-Oncology businesses Oncology Supply right so non-Oncology Supply they're probably about 60% of the revenue and Oncology Supply is about 40%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would Oncology be higher or lower average margin in your Specialty? I would say that Oncology is slightly higher.
Again those other businesses those other businesses are higher volume higher growth but slightly slightly lower margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it wouldn't be completely off the reservation to think about half of the business growing and half of it being under pressure from a profit standpoint something in that ballpark.
Well again we were really -- we were flat our second to third quarter in our Oncology Supply revenues.
Again some of the reasons we've got such good growth at our ASD and Besse divisions which -- well not Besse but ASD in particular is that they are doing a lot of oral oncology drugs.
So I think it's -- we've had this theme for a while that our Oncology business is really integrated throughout the company including in our health systems alternate site business and our ASD business would be 3 of the other beneficiaries of a strong oncology portfolio they're just not always in our B [ph] drugs.
Yes I mean I think that's -- I mean that's the key point right? We're down when we talk about results versus last year we're down.
But the good news is sequentially here we've stabilized and we're pretty flat in terms of Oncology.
So we think that's very encouraging.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one other quick one.
When we think about next year I know you're not giving guidance I know you talked about $0.20 from the Walgreen does that include also the benefits of the JV? Or is that strictly the Walgreen wholesale contract as a standalone? No it's both for 2014.
But again we expect that it will get better in 2015 and that's why we're fairly comfortable and...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I'm sorry if you said this but you'll start doing the generic piece -- have you said -- what did you say back half of the year you'll start doing the generics? Have you nailed that down? I may have missed it.
No we haven't -- it's -- so we got the brand starting September 1.
We expect to start on the generic distribution for calendar 2014.
And then we really have the whole year to complete that.
We'd hope to maybe go a bit quicker but we have -- there's no hurry.
Again it's a 10-year contract so there's no hurry and we'll go very steady.
I'd tell you that just having visited a lot of the customers' stores there's tremendous excitement about this program.
It's going to be a great program for this cause so it's fully implemented.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when do you think you'll be -- your JV when will all the heavy lifting on the contracting be done with the suppliers? Yes I think you'll see come in during the course of fiscal year '14.
We'll have a lot more guidance [indiscernible].
I think everything's on track.
It's just -- it's complicated.
We've got Peyton Howell hitting up our global supply chain business now EG Finiche [ph] she's in Switzerland a lot.
So I think we'll give you more color on it.
But again it's important that we have all these 3 buckets within the contract be profitable and important to our future success.
So I think we need to really wrap up.
So thanks John.
Thanks John.
And now Steve do you want to say a few closing remarks? Yes.
So we appreciate a lot of interest the terrific questions and I think it help gives you good understanding of how well ABC is positioned for an exciting future.
There's no doubt in my mind that it's very clear from this release that ABC executed superbly against our key initiatives in the quarter that we just reported.
This next quarter is going to be truly a historic momentous quarter for us as we implement probably one of the largest contracts in the history of our industry.
It's important then as some of the questions have come up that we will deliver superbly for all of our customers and we'll meet the high expectations that all of them have for us including this new Walgreens contract.
So thanks for your time and attention and we'll be with you in a couple of months again.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd just like to highlight 2 of our upcoming events.
We'll be attending the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Conference on September 9 in New York and the Robert Baird Health Care Conference on September 10 also in New York.
That concludes our call for today.
And now I will turn it back to the operator.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay from today July 24 2013 at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time until August 7 2013 midnight of that day.
You may access that conference by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 297735.
If you happen to be in an international location please dial (320) 365-3844 and the same access code of 297735.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
On behalf of today's panelists I'd like to thank you for your participation in today's AmerisourceBergen third quarter earnings call and have a good day and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Barbara.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our fiscal 2013 fourth quarter and yearend results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2012 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2013.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the company's permission.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning.
I am very pleased to report strong performance in our fourth quarter and solid results for our full year.
In fiscal 2013 we not only performed well operationally and financially but we also took groundbreaking steps to strengthen the strategic position of our core business and continue to lay the groundwork for meaningful international expansion.
We have made important investments in our infrastructure and we successfully divested certain assets while delivering exceptional value to our shareholders.
We have excellent momentum heading into fiscal 2014 and I've never been more excited about our position in the market and the opportunities that lie ahead.
Since our formation in 2001 AmerisourceBergen has both a reputation for being among other attributes experts in capital management and excelling at operational execution.
In the last few years we have made substantial investments and established new customer relationships that enhance our ability to deliver growth while remaining focused on the pharmaceutical supply chain.
We have improved our market-leading programs and services across our U.S.
business.
And we have begun to expand our specialty and manufacturer service offerings into important international markets.
The changing health care landscape demands that providers continue to evolve to meet increasing patient demand and new economic realities.
In our core U.S.
market we are of course very mindful of the pending implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
We have always believed that with increased coverage there will be greater demand for pharmaceuticals groups.
And while we are modestly optimistic of the positive opportunity for growth that the ACA can bring forth next year we do not expect that any delays or changes to the Act will negatively impact the guidelines for our business which is renowned for its resiliency in times of change.
Change is also impacting both brand and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers who also face an increasingly dynamic market with ability to get products to market as quickly and efficiently as possible and to secure reimbursement for those products are paramount.
Our goal is to help all of our customers and suppliers effectively meet today's challenges and to find and benefit from new opportunities in an increasingly complex health care market.
In order to meet that objective it is important to ensure that it is easy to do business with AmerisourceBergen on a global scale.
Whether our customer is an independent retailer looking for globally sourced generics and fresh merchandising ideas or a sophisticated biotech manufacturer entering new markets and conducting drug trials across the world we must deliver practical solutions that can be implemented quickly and without disruption.
Over the last few years we worked deliberately to remove internal barriers to collaboration and build out an infrastructure that fosters great innovation and creativity.
Our culture remains steadfastly focused on exceeding customer expectations and our organization is flat enough to ensure fast response times.
As a result we continue to roll out new innovative programs.
And the team feels like we always have more than we can and want to accomplish.
It is a source of great pride to me and our senior executives as to how exceptionally well AmerisourceBergen met and indeed exceeded every customer expectation that was placed in front of them during this year of incredible change for our company.
This strategic relationship we struck with Walgreens and Alliance Boots in March has greatly elevated our core business platform and opportunities allowing us to take our strategy for our business to the next level.
When we made the announcement we declared we had an unprecedented opportunity among the 3 companies to create and develop a unique and differentiated global platform.
Seven months into this significant announcement I feel stronger than ever that this relationship has created meaningful opportunities for us to further enhance our operations and customer value.
For example the additional volume flowing through our system now affords us the opportunity to make the investment to expand our Columbus greenfield facility and establish a international distribution center.
When fully operational at the end of calendar 2014 the greatly expanded facility will give manufacturers a new service option for greater supply chain efficiency with AmerisourceBergen and will drive benefits for our own operations as well.
In addition we plan to replace our existing Orlando Florida distribution center with a state-of-the-art facility that is over 50% larger than the current facility.
Both of these important investments will yield benefits to AmerisourceBergen's stakeholders for many years to come.
We're also making an important investment in information technology infrastructure in order to meet future regulatory requirements intended to further enhance the integrity and security of the pharmaceutical supply chain.
We have worked closely with many others in the supply chain to identify a comprehensive and workable solution for enhancing our products or track as they move through the supply chain and we are hopeful that federal legislation will soon set a national standard.
Our solution is a fully integrated program that takes advantage of the robust capabilities our SAP platform provides and delivers a single seamless way for manufacturers in particular to interact with all of AmerisourceBergen.
Once implemented our solution will also position us to manage various international regulations as needed.
I truly believe that the comprehensive global supply chain strategy we have deployed and the collaborative approach we have taken to doing business not only drives efficiency but also leads to growth and opportunity for our customers and those we serve.
Our growing relationships with both brand and generic manufacturers was on display at last month's supply chain ThinkLive trade show where ABC had record attendance from our supplier partners.
Our 1 ABC approach in forming relationships resonates with those constituencies that know and depend on our capabilities day in and day out.
I believe they fully embrace ABC's enhanced platform and welcome an increased role for AmerisourceBergen in driving innovation and value for the supply chain.
Turning now to our results.
Tim will cover the details but I want to take a quick look back on our September quarter and our fiscal 2013 before I talk more explicitly about our financial expectations for fiscal 2014.
Our revenue was up 28% in the September quarter to $24.5 billion with a sharp increase due to the on-boarding of the Walgreens brand distribution business.
Adjusted earnings per share were up 3% to $0.79 in the quarter.
Better-than-expected generic inflation helped offset the headwind from fewer generic launches and additional expenses related to on-boarding Walgreens.
Price inflation on both brand and generic products was quite strong in fiscal 2013.
Sales of generics have been strong across the board with only a handful of products contributing the majority of these price increases.
While we continue to expect to see some level of inflation going forward generic inflation is difficult to predict.
We believe the most recent increases have been extraordinary and we do not expect them to continue at the same high rates.
The pharmaceutical distribution segment overall had solid growth in the quarter with a 34% revenue increase in the Drug Company and a 12% increase in ABSG.
I want to take a moment here and give a special word of thanks to our direct company associates for the stellar job they did on-boarding the brand business for over 8 000 Walgreens stores.
The successful rollout is a testament to the talent and dedication of our associates and the value of working collaboratively with the customer.
We challenged our associates to continue exceeding all of our customer expectations while implementing the significant contract.
I have been at AmerisourceBergen for almost 20 years and despite the momentousness of this challenge I've never had a doubt our associates would rise to the occasion as they irrefutably did this year.
Importantly the drug companies other customer categories also performed well in the quarter.
Sales to independent drugstores increased sequentially in the quarter and we continue to have an open dialogue with these important customers about the opportunities we see on the horizon.
Importance of our independent offering was verified recently when the J.D.
Power 2013 U.S.
National Pharmacy Study ranked our Good Neighbor Pharmacy our franchise offering the highest in customer satisfaction among chain drugstore pharmacies.
This is quite an honor for the GNP franchise and our members and a well-deserved recognition of the extraordinary level of service they provide to their patients.
ABSG's revenues in the quarter were up 12% as strong performance in Besse ASD and ICS offset a decline in oncology business.
While our oncology supply sales have stabilized somewhat community practices continue to face a challenge of inadequate reimbursement.
We consistently encourage members of Congress to repeal the sequestration cuts that have negatively impacted community oncology physicians.
But of course there's no immediate relief in such.
We continue to expect that our community oncology business will be down year-over-year until it anniversaries the impact of sequestration.
It is possible that if inadequate reimbursement rates persist for a long period of time we could see additional pressure on community oncology sales.
Due to some well-established shifts inside of case service we are experiencing a lot of growth in hospital outpatient sales of oncology products.
And we believe that our knowledge of specialty products and our differentiated understanding of manufacturer and patient requirements for these products will help AmerisourceBergen's overall offering whether it is in our specialty business ABCS or our core drug business.
Turning now to World Courier and our consulting businesses.
Both performed well in the quarter with a strong performance in last year in particular driving operating income growth of 24%.
For the full fiscal year revenue increased 13% to a record $88 billion across all of AmerisourceBergen.
And we delivered $3.14 in adjusted EPS an increase of 6%.
We accomplished a great deal in fiscal 2013.
And while 2014 will be a transition year it positions us very well for a bright future built upon a foundation of strong and diverse customer relationships innovative partnerships and a dynamic marketplace.
Before I go into fiscal 2014 guidance I think it is worth mentioning the key priorities that our management team has established for 2014.
One continuing to onboard all of the Walgreens distribution business.
Two partnering with a Swiss JV in negotiating global generics sourcing agreements.
Three strengthening our independent retail programs.
Four driving the expansion of specialty offerings across our entire business.
Five expanding our service offerings in international markets by building upon the World Courier platform.
For our guidance it bears repeating that we are changing how we calculate adjusted diluted earnings per share in an effort to provide our business with greater clarity and transparency.
Tim will walk through the details.
But on the basis we will use going forward fiscal 2013 adjusted diluted EPS was $3.21.
On the same basis we expect fiscal 2014 adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.73 an increase of 12% to 16%.
We will of course have exceptionally strong revenue growth of 28% to 31% as a result of on-boarding the Walgreens business which also will drive strong operating income growth.
While we anticipate a modest benefit to our top line from Health Care Reform in fiscal 2014 it is ramping a little slower than originally anticipated and we probably will expect a greater bit impact in fiscal 2015.
Our operating margins will be negatively impacted by the mixed shift to lower margin business but we continue to expect that we will be able to grow our operating margins after we anniversary the on-boarding of Walgreens.
Our capital expenditure expectation is significantly higher than prior years.
But as I outlined earlier we continue to make important investments in our business that will provide benefits and opportunities for growth for a long time to come.
Throughout my career I have learned that well thought out and executed technology investments have been very beneficial to our business.
They not only drive efficiency but help us establish the customer intimacy and ease of doing business that ABC is characterized by.
It also helps us to be a leader in compliance and ahead of any regulatory challenges that may arise.
We expect our strong cash flow generation will continue though with some timing impacts as we inboard -- onboard Walgreens.
We do however continue to have financial flexibility and we will deploy capital wisely and with a view to both growing our business and returning funds to shareholders.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 million in shares in fiscal 2014 but likely in the latter part of the year.
We also continue to have an increased -- an interest and acquisitions particularly in specialty and manufacturer services and potentially on the international front as well.
In conclusion we are very pleased with both the performance we've had in the last year and the degree to which we have been able to execute against our strategic priorities.
As we continue to expand our relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots further develop our global pharmaceutical sourcing strategy and work to ensure a bright future for all of our customers I have great confidence that our associates will continue to rise to the occasion.
We have accomplished a great deal in the last year and I've never felt better about our future.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We had a very strong finish to what has been a solid year and we're pleased with our fiscal '13 results.
We did this while executing on several strategic initiatives.
It's interesting to note that we started our fiscal year servicing our large PBM partner under a new contract.
And we finished this fiscal year servicing our large chain partner Walgreens under our expanded distribution contract.
This morning as has been our practice this year I will provide my initial comments on our GAAP financial results.
I will then adjust for the exclusion of the 2 material noncash items the LIFO expense and the warrant expense including the negative impact on our tax rate from the warrants.
As a reminder results from fiscal '12 will be on a GAAP basis when I make any comparisons.
I have 3 main items to cover this morning.
First I will recap fourth quarter consolidated and segment performance.
Next I will spend a few minutes on our full year performance.
The third item I will wrap up my prepared comments covering our fiscal '14 guidance.
In order to facilitate an easier comparison between fiscal '13 and fiscal '14 at the end of my comments I will also provide our adjusted earnings for fiscal '13 on the new adjusted basis which we will use going forward.
Let's begin our review of ABC's fourth quarter '13 financial results.
Starting with the top line revenues were $24.5 billion up 28% compared to last year's quarter.
The increase was due to incremental revenues from our new large contracts our PBM and Walgreens distribution contracts.
If we were to exclude the growth associated with these 2 meaningful contracts our revenue growth would still have been a very good 4.4%.
We did benefit from having 1 extra business day this September quarter.
The current quarter's GAAP gross profit decreased to $568 million due to the LIFO charge of $154 million this charge was significantly higher than previously expected due to much better-than-expected drug price increases in Q4.
Traditionally a slower time period for price increases.
We had record brand price inflation for our inventory mix for both Q4 and also the full year.
Also Q4 included a limited number of generic drugs that had large price increases.
Excluding LIFO from just the current quarter our adjusted gross profit was up 1% to approximately $722 million.
Last year's gross profit benefited from a LIFO credit and antitrust income of about $26 million.
As highlighted in our previous 2 quarters we continued to experience a headwind in gross profit in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment due to fewer new generic launches year-over-year.
However this quarter this headwind was mitigated by stronger price appreciation related to generic drugs.
Let's move to operating expenses.
This quarter total GAAP operating expenses were $453 million up about $58 million or about 15%.
Included in these GAAP expenses is warrant expense of about $50 million.
The driver behind the sequential warrant expense increase is the current fair value of the warrants.
At September 30 the warrants were valued at $572 million which was greater than the June 30 value of $468 million.
The fair value of the warrants increased primarily due to the ABC's share price in the quarter ended September 2013.
Operating expenses excluding the warrant expense were about $403 million in the current quarter up $8 million or about 2% over last year's quarter.
However last year's quarter had a burden of a large onetime restructuring charge in the amount of $27 million.
Without the impact of the restructuring expenses our OpEx would have increased about 9%.
This increase was related to our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment specifically the Drug Company and also corporate IT both in support of the on-boarding of our new Walgreens contract.
Operating expenses in the Other segment were virtually flat.
Operating income.
Our GAAP operating income was $114 million down significantly due to the material LIFO and warrant expenses.
However excluding LIFO and the warrants from the September '13 quarter only our adjusted operating income would have been $319 million above flat compared to last year's quarter.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.30% down 37 basis points compared to last September quarter due to the significant increase in lower margin business and the expenses of on-boarding the Walgreens contract.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense of approximately $19 million in the current quarter decreased about 19% compared to last year due to the debt that we paid off in September of 2012.
Income taxes.
Our GAAP effective income tax rate was nearly 48%.
As mentioned last quarter our income tax rate is being negatively impacted by warrants expense.
On an adjusted basis which means we are removing the nondeductible dollars associated with the warrants our effective tax rate for the September 2013 quarter was 38.2%.
Our GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations in the September quarter was $0.22.
Our adjusted diluted EPS consistent with how we provided our revised EPS guidance which means excluding LIFO the warrants expense and warrant tax impact from the current September quarter only was $0.79 an increase of about 3%.
Our EPS benefited from a 5% reduction in our average diluted shares outstanding versus the prior year quarter.
There was no accounting dilution in our share count from the unexercised equity warrants in the September quarter.
At September 30 2013 we had approximately 230 million shares outstanding.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the September quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Please note that I will exclude the impact of the fiscal '13 LIFO expense.
Warrant expense is recorded outside of our segment results.
Total revenues were $24.1 billion up nearly 30% versus the same quarter last year.
Drug Company led the way with revenues up 34% due to 2 primary drivers.
One incremental revenues from our large PBM customer.
As a reminder this month October we have now lapped the start of this contract.
And two we also benefited from starting to distribute brand drugs to Walgreens for the 1 month September.
The Walgreens revenues tracked to what was expected.
Specialty Group's revenues increased 12%.
Consistent with other quarters this year Besse Medical ASD and our ICS 3PO business led the way with above-market revenue performance having combined growth of about 20%.
Our oncology supply business was down about 4%.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and specialty are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we've communicated these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit.
As mentioned earlier this segment had a benefit in the September 2012 quarter of $26 million from a LIFO credit and antitrust income.
Excluding this headwind our Drug Company was up in the September quarter due to very strong generic price appreciation and to a lesser degree contributions from the new Walgreens contract offset by the headwinds caused by the previously announced PBM contract repricing a GPO customer loss and a modest generic launch year.
The generic price appreciation was limited to a handful of drugs that had large price increases some of which were related to supply disruptions.
The Specialty Group had 8% gross profit growth due to the strong revenues that I highlighted offset by the continued reimbursement headwind in oncology supply.
Adjusted pharmaceutical distribution operating income was about $300 million and down 9% versus the prior year quarter.
Excluding the $26 million benefit from the LIFO credit and the antitrust income from the September 2012 quarter this segment's operating income was essentially flat.
Our Specialty Group had a strong quarter with operating income growth in the high teens driven primarily by their gross profit growth.
The drug company's operating income decreased and offset the specialty increase.
Drug Company had an increase in operating expenses related to the on-boarding of Walgreens primarily labor delivery costs and IT support costs.
Moving to the Other reporting segment.
As a reminder this segment is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
Segment revenues increased about 3% to $434 million in the current quarter.
In the September quarter World Courier corrected intracompany cross divisional revenues in the amount of $30 million.
This year-to-date cumulative correction negatively impacted their top line revenue for the quarter.
There was not an impact to their operating income.
Segment operating income increased a strong 24% to nearly $22 million from the same quarter last year.
Our consulting business had an increase in operating income partially driven by timing of key medical programs shifted to July this fiscal year versus being recognized in the June quarter last year.
Let me switch gears and cover a few key full year financial metrics.
Overall we did very well meeting or exceeding our revised guidance targets.
Revenue growth.
On a full year basis our growth was 12.7% near the top of our revised guidance range.
Our large PBM customer contract drove most of this increase and to a lesser degree new revenues from our Walgreens contract.
Our specialty business finished the year with revenue growth of just under 8%.
Again led by Besse Medical ASD and ICS up a combined 20%.
This was offset by a 10% decline in oncology supply revenues due to reimbursement pressures as mentioned previously and to a lesser degree brand to generic conversions.
Our adjusted operating income excluding LIFO and the warrant expense from the full fiscal year decreased about 3% to $1.27 billion.
Our adjusted operating margin decreased by 23 basis points to 1.44% from 1.67%.
EPS.
Our full year adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations which excludes LIFO and the negative warrant impacts was $3.14 above our expectations due to a strong fourth quarter and primarily due to the benefit of the higher-than-expected generic price appreciation.
Now let's turn to our balance sheet and cash flows.
Our full year capital expenditures were $202 million and included about $50 million related to on-boarding Walgreens.
Free cash flow was $586 million significantly better than our revised guidance of $100 million to $200 million.
As part of this -- part of this improvement is due to timing as our brand inventory build for Walgreens was slightly lower than what we originally expected.
And we had an especially strong September cash collections month.
The additional brand inventory was on-boarded in early to mid-October.
During the September quarter our share buybacks were $83 million.
And for the full year we bought back $484 million of shares which exceeded our guidance of $400 million for the year.
We are proud of our track record of upsizing our return of capital to shareholders.
We ended the fiscal year with about $1.1 billion available on our share repurchase authorizations.
Moving to our hedging program.
As a reminder this program enables ABC to offset a reasonable amount of the anticipated share dilution from the anticipated exercise of the warrant through the purchase of 4 cap call options.
At September 30 2013 we have completed about 60% of the hedge at a cost of roughly $160 million.
As we mentioned last quarter we can adjust our hedging activities based on market conditions at any time.
We now expect the program to be completed in early fiscal '14.
Finally our cash balance of about $1.2 billion at September 30 leaves us in a good position as we navigate through a large complex Walgreens on-boarding from a working capital standpoint.
Now let's turn to fiscal 2014 expectations.
As we discussed earlier our guidance going forward will be on a new adjusted basis.
Perspectively our new definition of adjusted earnings will exclude LIFO adjustments expenses associated with the equity warrants and related tax impact acquisition-related expenses and intangible amortization as well as any onetime restructuring litigation and severance expenses.
We have also decided to exclude antitrust litigation gains which are infrequent and difficult to predict.
Finally we will calculate adjusted EPS using an adjusted share count which will exclude the accounting dilution resulting from the impact of the unexercised equity warrants.
Our guidance this morning excludes any impact from these items.
On the new basis our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations for fiscal 2013 was $3.21.
Gross profit was $2.76 billion and the gross margin was 3.14%.
The operating income and margin for fiscal '13 was $1.29 billion and 1.47% respectively.
On this basis our expectations for fiscal 2014 are as follows: EPS we expect fiscal '14 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.73.
Again we consider $3.21 as our base fiscal '13 adjusted EPS number; revenues we expect revenue growth to be in the 28% to 31% range driven primarily by our new Walgreens contract with 11 months of incremental brand drug revenue and the phasing end of generics.
Included in our revenue forecast is a modest increase from the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
Finally we expect our specialty business to grow between 7% and 10% with our oncology supply business just up slightly.
Gross profit.
Our gross profit dollars will be up in fiscal '14 but our gross profit margin will be down substantially due to the Walgreens business and because we continue to expect the benefit from the procurement joint venture to come later in our fiscal year.
Also our Specialty Group's mix of business also negatively impacts our gross profit margin as certain of their lower margin businesses are growing faster.
Although we had a strong fiscal year in terms of brand and generic price appreciation our working assumption for fiscal '14 is that price appreciation will moderate and return to more normal levels.
In terms of operating expenses we expect year-over-year dollar growth as a percentage to be in the low teens.
The increase is driven primarily from 3 key areas.
One on-boarding the Walgreens business and direct costs such as payroll and delivery.
Two an increase in overall corporate support costs most notably IT.
It's important to point out that our continued investment in IT while tied to the Walgreens contract implementation will benefit all of our current customers and importantly allow for future growth.
And three certain non-capitalizable expenses associated with building a replacement Florida DC expanding our Columbus facility to also serve as a national distribution center and implementing a track-and-trace system.
Finally our operating expenses are somewhat dependent upon how quickly and efficiently we onboard the Walgreens generic business.
You can count on ABC to manage operating expenses responsibly.
For fiscal '14 we expect our operating income year-over-year dollar growth to be in the range of 12% to 16% primarily driven by the Drug Company.
Additionally we expect our operating margin to decrease in basis points in the high teens.
For specialty we expect operating income to be relatively flat as the income contribution from the 3 fast-growing businesses will offset the lower contribution from our oncology supply business.
Interest expense.
Our interest expense is expected to increase year-over-year as a percentage in the low teens.
This is due to anticipated short-term borrowings in the first half of the fiscal year.
We funded higher accounts payable in October from the Walgreens brand inventory build.
We will need to fund additional working capital needs as we continue to phase in the Walgreens business.
And around the end of December we have our usual seasonality where we add inventory in our drug business.
Tax rate.
We expect our adjusted tax rate to be in the low 38% range.
Share repurchases.
Our guidance assumes $500 million in share repurchases.
Importantly we'd expect the majority of the share repurchases to be in the second half of the fiscal year when our working capital improves.
Switching over to our cash flow.
Capital expenditures are estimated to be approximately $300 million in fiscal '14.
Since announcing our new strategic relationship last March we have recognized that we need additional investment in several areas.
I previously discussed the replacement DC in Florida the national distribution center in Columbus Ohio and the track-and-trace system.
Additionally from an IT standpoint we plan to invest CapEx dollars to ensure that we have properly scaled SAP and EDI Systems in our Drug Company with appropriate capabilities to handle the projected doubling of order volume and to support future growth.
We are also scheduled to install and upgrade to our core SAP system and implement SAP in our World Courier business this year.
The CapEx spend for these 6 initiatives is about 60% of the total CapEx spend and will mostly be completed late in the fiscal year.
As Steve highlighted these CapEx projects position us better for the long term.
Finally free cash flow.
We expect that our free cash flow will be in the $500 million to $700 million range.
Free cash flow is impacted by the additional CapEx spend additional brand inventory build needed for Walgreens and a slightly higher level of invoices paid in October related to the Q4 brand inventory build.
A critical positive driver of free cash flow is the phase-in of the Walgreens generic business which we continue to assume will be slow and steady over calendar 2014.
We can have a material change in our free cash flow based on how this generic business actually gets implemented.
I know that my comments today were longer than usual due to all the moving parts so thank you for your attention.
Let me finish by reiterating we're pleased with our results for the quarter and the full year.
For fiscal 2014 we expect solid organic growth.
We are doing this while investing in a number of internal initiatives to strengthen our business long term.
The future continues to look very bright for AmerisourceBergen.
Now here is Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead Brad.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Obviously last week McKesson announced the acquisition of Celesio so can you just talk about how do you think that partnership will impact -- potentially impact JV negotiations with manufacturers? Or do you think that you have a first-mover advantage there? Well Ricky we weren't surprised by the announcement but we're really very confident in our position.
First of all we believe that we have best-in-category partners here.
The scale of this relationship is unique.
And we also -- we have the benefit of not only did we go through a couple of months of negotiation but we've now proactively worked on market solutions for over 7 months and it's going very well.
So you get into acquisitions there's still regulatory hurdles to be faced.
So we don't think there's any impact on our business.
Again we think that this relationship has been positively received by the manufacturers.
I think it gives them some really unique global access that no one else can offer.
And the other thing is AmerisourceBergen was the third party in this relationship and there was already a well-established and well thought out integration plan between Alliance Boots and Walgreens.
And in a way we benefited from fitting into that so we think we're ahead here.
We like how we're positioned.
And as you can see we've got great confidence.
I mean 12% to 16% operating growth for fiscal '14.
Research Division</strong> And when we think about '14 guidance and maybe I've missed it but is there any issuance benefits from improved sourcing? And also is there any update to your thoughts of high single-digit basis for margin expansion in fiscal year '15 given what you know to date? We gave Tim a bit of a break and we'll get him to answer parts of your question.
But we expect the sourcing benefits to accrue later in the year.
And it's -- there's of course tremendous interest in this but we really are in this for the long term.
We signed a 10-year distribution agreement with Walgreens and we've entered into this agreement really on the generic sourcing with the Bergen JV with really the belief that this is going to be permanent.
So we really are being very thoughtful about it.
We think we're providing a lot of growth to our shareholders and we really want to manage the market for the long term.
So you will see full benefits.
There are better benefits from that in '15 but...
Thanks Steve.
Hi Ricky.
I would just say before I get into the question I'd just like to echo '14 guidance strong organic growth.
We expect -- what we said before is still consistent for '15.
We expect that margin to improve.
We said at least high single-digits.
That's still our answer what we're committed to it's early.
A lot of moving parts.
We got to navigate through '14 first a lot of complexity.
But we certainly need a longer runway underneath us here before we really get into details on '15.
And we do have a question from the line of Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve now that you're 7 months into the transition with Walgreens.
Could you maybe give some reactions to maybe what some of your independent customers domestically may be saying? Are using any pushback or any disruption in that regard? Well obviously when we made this announcement on March 19 I think there was a lot of market attention to this.
And what's happened since then in many cases again at our trade show in July we are met with a couple of customers who had been with us in the Good Neighbor Pharmacy program for 29 years.
So we have long established relationship with customers and many of them trust us.
We highly -- many of them trust us implicitly I think they're just with us for the long-term.
And said that they understood.
I mean when I gave my remarks at the opening keynote speech at this conference there was I think tremendous interest in that we had a lot of attendance.
But there's a lot of confidence that AmerisourceBergen is going to do the right thing for them.
And they know the generics and the ProGen program are very important to the future of the Swiss JV and very important to us.
And of course it's a key area of profitability for them.
So I think it's up to us.
We intend to execute against some of the non-generic sourcing priorities of this agreement.
So there's areas in the front store there's areas in network development technology and clinical enhancements that we can offer I've given some pretty rudimentary examples of little things that we can do around script translation that gives us the capabilities and the scale to do it even in areas of patient-specific compounding.
So I think there are lots of areas for us to help the independent base and they trust us.
We haven't seen any significant loss or any loss at all really from the independent customer base so things are really going well.
Research Division</strong> That's good to hear.
Tim maybe if I could just sort of follow-up on one question with respect to the purchasing JV.
When you guys originally gave your accretion estimates for the combined transaction it seemed at the time that you were sort of conveying that the benefits from the purchasing joint venture may actually be bigger than the prime vendor agreement itself.
And if that's the case we're not going to see the benefits from the prime vendor agreement towards the latter half of fiscal '14.
Might the accretion benefits in fiscal '15 be ultimately bigger than what we've seen in '14 based on that original premise? Hey Glenn.
We did -- clearly we said that we still believe it.
We still believe that the procurement JV is ultimately going to be better.
It's just a matter of how quickly we can ramp up.
It's complicated.
You have to contract and go through that process.
So again we always said a little bit in '14 mostly in '15 but ultimately ultimately it's going to have a contribution greater than the core distribution agreement.
Am I ready to really comment about '15 in terms of accretion? Again I think with Ricky I think I answered a lot of moving parts complicated we're not really ready to put the stake on the ground in terms of accretion for '15.
We're still committed but nothing's changed.
We're still committed to solid mid-teens EPS growth over the long term.
And we do have a question from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve or Tim is there an argument for perhaps including the warrant dynamics in the income statement to reflect the 20% of the upside here to the numbers that you're basically giving away now? And are there any other scenarios that do enable you to revisit the terms or conditions around the warrants? Bob I'll take the question first and Steve can jump in.
But again I would say we're down the road on the relationship.
It's contracted.
It's been a pleasant surprise.
I mean we're benefiting from a great relationship partnership.
And again it's tied to the procurement JV which again with Glenn we said we still believe that it's ultimately going to be very promising.
So at this point no there's -- I'd say it's remote and not likely that we'd ever renegotiate and really the upside of the warrant valuation wouldn't flow through the P&amp;L.
I think if I called Greg and Stefano and said I want to renegotiate the warrant process they might think it's not Halloween but April 1.
So I don't think that's a possibility.
It's a good thought.
But honestly when we negotiate this contract it was really a year ago.
Our stock was steady 43 to 45 and so it reflected some modest premium over that price at the time but markets are unpredictable.
And we do have a question from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the potential savings from the JV.
Steve at this point how much visibility do you have into those potential savings? Are the savings more tied to timing at this point or are there still several unknowns that would need to be worked through to realize those savings? Well we're very involved in the JV.
I was in Switzerland last month.
We have people there -- it's not every week at least a couple of times a month so we have been very participatory in the discussions because the complexity of the end-market pricing in the U.S.
really affects us across a broad range of customers from other regional chains that we have to the independent pharmacies to long-term care and institutional pharmacy skilled nursing facilities.
So I think that's one of the key learnings we've had.
So we've been very involved the participation by AmerisourceBergen generic sourcing and business development folks is being extremely welcome.
And we're involved.
So we have a lot of visibility but we're right in the thick of things.
So we expect that we'll give you further guidance as the year continues.
But honestly nothing has changed.
In fact our expectations are probably more positive than ever about the opportunities that our manufacturers are seeing from this global relationship.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess just on generic pricing in general.
Steve you flagged that inflation has been extraordinary but that you don't expect that to continue at these same high rates.
Is the assumption in guidance for flat generic pricing? And I guess if it is what are some of the factors that can make this inflation better or worse than your expectations? I think the keyword that we used that if we didn't use we should have is concentration.
There were just a couple of products on both brand and generic that really had outside contributions to hard and expected inflation rates.
And if those circumstances persist it could happen again.
But I think we heard comments from both our peer companies that are very consistent with us that you have some unique circumstances here and it's difficult for us to predict that they'll continue.
It's part of why we have a range of earnings.
But Tim any comments.
Yes.
I would say it's a good question.
It's '13 '13 was clearly better than '12 in terms of generic price appreciation but as Steve mentioned it's isolated concentrated.
We're not ready to call it the new norm at this point.
So that's -- we factored that into our guidance that's why we have a range and I guess Bob the other thing I'd like to point out too on that range for next year is we have 2 big generic launches and they're both tied to 1 supplier.
So again that's part of why you have a range in terms of generic price appreciation and generic launches things can change and move and develop.
And we do have a question from the line of Tom Gallucci with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I guess first of all in your comments you mentioned maybe a little bit of benefit in your expectations from health care reform.
You recognized I think maybe a little slower ramp.
But could you give us a little better understanding of the calculations and how you're thinking about reform? Well Tom congratulations on the new position and we look forward to working with you of course.
We really do work more on the IMS [ph] guidance.
I mean I don't want you to take anything away from that that we're not sophisticated and don't look at different customers and their growth rates because we really do.
In the last few years we -- tremendous attention on that and we've got of course some very large customers that we consult with and also down to the GNP stores.
So we spent a lot of time on it but we don't particularly look at what the impact would be.
When we've see that TennCare expand and we have a very strong independent patient independent pharmacy population and customer base there we've seen some very good growth.
And so our assumption is being at Medicaid and Affordable Care Act expansion will be good for us but we never thought about it in more than about a 2% increase in revs at the absolute most.
And now we've moderated that but we've got 28% to 31% revenue growth next year so we probably aren't obsessing about it every percentage of revenue growth really focusing on it bottom line and operational implementation.
And frankly they're very big capital investments that we're making next year which will be a record for AmerisourceBergen.
I think Steve boy you definitely -- you hit it.
I mean I think again I said modest and we're still bullish we still think it's going to be a good ramp and could be a real positive for '15 but very modest for '14.
And ultimately it should be good for our retail for chain and our independents.
But again not a big factor for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
One more.
I guess just the prime vendor agreement and the purchasing organization clearly you're the biggest here relative to the Walgreens-Alliance Boots relationship.
But in the past you've also talked a bit -- or maybe about it being a platform of World Courier to expand your specialty operations internationally.
Anything there that you might want to offer? So Alliance Boots has got just tremendous assets and we're talking to them more and more frequently as we've got through the implementation of the Web contract.
That was our first priority.
And I'd say we got through the brand we still have the generics to do.
But for example we're looking at what percentages could be with our Good Neighbor pharmacy.
We're looking at the different third-party logistics businesses that Alliance Boots has and their interest in being more involved in specialty and institutional business.
So we have a lot of meetings and it just takes some time.
We've talked to a couple of emerging bio and specialty manufacturers about their interest in doing a global contract between the 3 companies.
And we're confident that we're going to get some good case studies here it's just going to take some time.
But this is one of the long-term upsides for this relationship and nothing that we've seen really defers our optimism that this can be accomplished.
And we do have a question from the line of David Larsen with Leerink.
Research Division</strong> Tim can you just touch on the distribution selling and administrative expenses? There was a sequential pop there.
Any thoughts on sort of the run rate going through '14 please? Yes Dave I would -- well again I would say that in my comments I talked about the expenses being up in Pharmaceutical Distribution in Q4.
Again primarily related to the Drug Company.
And again in terms of the run rate I would say that that run rate -- 1 quarter this year as we ramp up for September in terms of we gave you some guidance for next year in terms of the increase so we'll have 3 incremental quarters next year.
Part of what's driving that increase for OpEx for next year we're not that -- we're probably 40% or 50% done in terms of hiring staffing in our DCs.
We still have a lot of volume to go bringing on the generics business and there's going to be some duplicate costs.
So again that's part of what's driving that increase in our guidance for OpEx for '14.
Hopefully that's helpful.
And we do have a question from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just had a question around the generic purchasing and in burn is there going to be any type of tax benefit to Amerisource by some of the business that you're doing there? We've really focused on getting the generic contract implemented so we're hoping to do our first Walgreens generic performance distribution business next year.
And then that ties in sequentially over the next couple of quarters to the contract launches so that's really been our focus.
Definitely something that we will contemplate in the long term but no attribution for that next year at all yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then secondly you called out both independent increase in sales sequentially as well as your large PBM customer buying incremental products from you.
Can you maybe just give us some idea of is this that you're deepening your relationship around generics? Is it your -- those customers are buying what type of more products from you is it something specific and the reason why you called them each out? With the large PBM customer I think they hopefully enjoy ordering from AmerisourceBergen and found us to be a great partner and easy to do business with.
So some more and more brand lines have been added to the distribution contract.
With generics where we're seeing a lot of success is frankly also in the health systems area as there's more generic penetration there.
I think we've had some real strong enhancements in the contracting we have with hospital GPO so that's where we're seeing a lot of benefit.
And also just a stronger hospital environment.
We've always had a probably not as well-understood hospital practice that we have some of the leading hospital systems in the country as customers and definitely some of the winners in Affordable Care Act implementation and accountable care organization.
So we definitely are benefiting from some of the trends there.
And that final question comes from the line of Eric Coldwell with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I think you addressed this in your comments but the Other segment revenue missed my target by about $30 million.
I think you've said there was a true-up of $30 million I was hoping you could clarify that.
More importantly when we think about the outlook for that segment going into next year I didn't catch your targeted growth rates in margin in that segment.
I think you made references to ABSG and ABDC but maybe not so much to the Other segment so I was hoping we could get some outlook on that? Thanks Eric it's Tim I'll take this one.
In my prepared comments I mean we had a change in leadership there in finance with a new person coming on board.
We've realized that some cross-divisional revenues were not properly eliminated and again we needed to do that.
If you -- and that was a year-to-date adjustment in August about $30 million.
If you kind of back out the -- if you back out what was related to previous quarters the growth the sales growth would have been I think about 9% for that Other segment.
Again pretty strong no impact on operating income.
Essentially they kind of grossed up the revenue.
You're right we're actually going to wait until Investor Day and give some more specific guidance on that Other segment so we didn't give it today.
But I would expect revenue growth to be in the high single-digits pretty consistent with what we've said a little bit of margin expansion mid to high single-digits pretty consistent both doing pretty well.
And remember that Other segment in that Other segment a big chunk of that Other segment is distribution business associated with consulting so it's a large dollar business at a low margin.
So again it distorts that overall Other segment a bit.
Hopefully that helps.
And thanks Eric.
With that we'll turn it over to Steve to make some closing remarks.
Thank you.
I was actually hoping for a question on oncology and let me just say that we're very proud of our oncology business and we've been a leader there for over 10 years.
Though we're seeing some shifts we just -- we do have a very strong oncology business.
And we believe we're maintaining our market share.
And also we have terrific associates that are so knowledgeable and dedicated in our oncology business and we're really proud of the job that they're doing every day.
And if you think about it we have almost 20% of the market captive within 1 account that we have no chance to win.
So when you retain over 50% market share it's very very difficult.
So we think our future looks good.
We think that there have been some pipeline issues and so no one asked me the questions so I'm just going to say that and I know our remarks have been long and you've all had a very busy day.
So I just hope that Tim and I have effectively communicated the pride we have in all of AmerisourceBergen is completed in fiscal 2013.
If you think about the divestitures and the business expansions we've had it's a year that I just couldn't be more proud of.
And then you look at how we positioned for 2014 and the 13% to 16% -- sorry 12% to 16% operating income growth that we projected that's pretty remarkable.
So we feel great about AmerisourceBergen.
We hope that we've communicated that to you and that we wish you a very happy Halloween.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I just want to highlight a few of our upcoming events.
We'll be hosting our Annual Investor Day in New York on December 12.
We will be attending the Goldman Sachs CEOs Unplugged Conference in Boston on January 7.
And we'll be attending the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco on or about January 14.
Finally we expect to report our first quarter results of 2014 in late January.
Thank you for joining us today.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay today after 1:00 p.m.
Eastern through November 14.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 entering the access code 304743.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC First Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference now over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call Covering our First Quarter of Fiscal 2014.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2013 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2013.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and thank you to everyone for joining us this morning.
I am very pleased to report solid performance in our first quarter of fiscal 2014 and good progress against our goals in what is an important transition year for our company.
We performed very well operationally and carefully managed through significant changes in the working capital dynamics of our business.
We continue to onboard substantial new business and to make investments to strengthen our business for the long term.
We are off to a good start for fiscal 2014 and I'm very pleased about ABC's market position and the opportunities we have in front of us to continue to deliver growth as we shape health care delivery.
As we continue to expand our global sourcing and distribution services capabilities our efforts are focused on delivering solutions for pharmacies providers and manufacturers.
By improving product access and increasing supply chain efficiency we can help our provider and manufacturer customers enhance patient care while creating mutual efficiencies.
In addition our commercialization and patient access programs help maximize product success at every stage of the drug life cycle.
Our extensive knowledge and expertise combined with tremendous reach across all sides of care gives us a unique advantage in a complex and rapidly changing health care environment.
In addition I believe that our partnership philosophy sets us further apart as we strive for collaborative long-term solutions to pharmaceutical care's biggest challenges.
As we discussed at our Investor Day in December we are making significant investments in our business to support our growth.
Our ultimate goal is to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the global supply chain which will make it easier to bring products to market and ensure patients have access to the products they need.
As we increase our global reach resourcing niche distribution and other manufacturer services we will open up new opportunities for AmerisourceBergen as well as for our customers and manufacturer partners.
Turning now to our financial results.
Tim will cover the details as always but I want to cover some highlights from the quarter and reiterate our priorities and expectations for the full year.
Our revenue was up a very strong 39% in the September quarter to $29.2 billion with a sharp increase due primarily to the on-boarding of the Walgreens brand distribution business.
As expected operating margin declined but operating income was up 9% which drove adjusted earnings per share growth of 10% to $0.80 in the quarter.
The significant increase in revenue in ABDC good performance in generics and strong performance in World Courier and our consulting businesses contributed to our growth in the quarter which was offset in part by higher expenses.
Price inflation on brand products continues to be strong.
And while we continue to expect that a handful of generic products will experience significant price increases as previously discussed this usually only impacts a few dozen products a year out of a large catalog of products.
The pharma distribution segment overall had a strong solid growth in the quarter with a 46% revenue increase in the drug company and an 8% increase at ABSG.
The successful rollout of the Walgreens brand business is a testament to the talent and dedication of our Drug Company associates who have worked collaboratively with this large customer while continuing to exceed the expectations of our other customers.
This week we have begun to onboard the distribution of generics to Walgreens stores with a phased approach.
The Walgreens generic business represent an even more significant increase in the volume of products that our distribution centers will handle on a daily basis and our associates are well prepared to handle the increased volume.
Over the course of the full implementation of this contract our Drug Company is essentially doubling the number of lines we ship per night.
This is an incredibly significant operational accomplishment and I'm pleased by the way our best-in-class associates have implemented this alongside our other new contracts generating exceptional metrics for all our customers.
Importantly the Drug Company's other customer categories also continue to perform well in the quarter.
Sales to independent drugstores increased over the prior year and we are making progress on new enhancements to our Good Neighbor Pharmacy programs as well as other services for independence.
Our hospital health system and alternate site customers all performed well in the quarter though our margins were pressured somewhat by the faster growth rates among the very largest customers.
Just over half of our Drug Company revenues in this quarter came from high-volume brand-only sales which pressured our gross margin mix.
This pressure should ease over the rest of the fiscal year as we ramp our generic distribution business with Walgreens.
ABSG's revenues in the quarter were up 8% a strong performance in DC and ASD offset a modest decline in the oncology supply business.
Other and Specialty Distribution businesses continue to perform very well while community oncology practices face the challenge of inadequate reimbursements for the care they provide.
Assuming that Congress does not repeal the sequestration cuts which have negatively impacted community oncology physicians we continue to expect that our community oncology business will be down year-over-year and sort of anniversaries the impact of sequestration in April.
It is important to note that our community oncology business did meet expectations for the quarter and is adapting well to the challenging environment.
As reimbursement challenges have driven some shifts in the site of care we are experiencing significant growth in the hospital outpatient sales of oncology products.
Our expertise in specialty products and our differentiated understanding of manufacturer and patient requirements for these products will continue to help strengthen AmerisourceBergen's overall oncology offering whether it is in our specialty business specifically ABCS or our core drug business.
Our unique expertise and our collaborative approach have helped us deliver tremendous value to providers across the health care spectrum from independence to the premier chain drugstores to some of the most prestigious hospitals and health systems in the U.S.
Overall our specialty business is an essential differentiator for AmerisourceBergen and will certainly be a key part of our future value equation.
Turning now to our manufacturer services businesses.
Both World Courier and our consulting businesses had very strong performance in the quarter.
We are pleased with the growth World Courier has achieved in its existing markets and we are very excited about the opportunities to utilize its platform to further expand both our specialty and manufacturer services offerings into other markets.
Our consulting businesses continue to perform well and to win new business.
The unique combination of these service offerings continues to be an important differentiator for AmerisourceBergen and will be a key driver of our future growth.
For the remainder of fiscal 2014 we will continue to execute against the key priorities I cited at our Investor Day in December including continuing to onboard all of the Walgreens distribution business and partnering with a Swiss joint venture in negotiating global generic sourcing agreements.
We'll all continue to work with Walgreens and Alliance Boots to find innovative ways to leverage our existing platforms.
Our respective management teams are devoting considerable time to the development of our partnerships and we are very pleased as to how this groundbreaking deal continues to create opportunities throughout our business.
Specifically we believe AmerisourceBergen will continue to strengthen our independent retail and other customer support programs and expand our specialty offerings across all our entire business.
We are calling the next generation of Good Neighbor Pharmacy services Transpharmation spelled P-H-A-R-M-M A-R-M in the middle.
And this name really says it all.
Our aspiration is that the new community pharmacy offerings we codevelop with our partnerships will positively impact the independent pharmacy customers and help them prepare for the post Affordable Care Act community pharmacy model.
We're also making progress in expanding our specialty third-party logistic and other manufacturer services businesses by further penetrating existing markets and by exploring opportunities in international markets.
In terms of our guidance we continue to expect fiscal 2014 adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.73 an increase of 12% to 16% over fiscal year '13.
We expect exceptional revenue growth in the range of 30% to 34% as a result of on-boarding the Walgreens business which will also drive strong operating income growth.
As we've previously stated our operating margins will be negatively impacted by the mix shift to lower margin business but our belief is we'll be able to expand our full year operating margins beginning in the fiscal year '15.
Over the course of the fiscal year we will continue to make important investments in our business that will support new business and provide additional benefits and opportunities for future growth.
It is essential that we not only continue to improve our ability to operate efficiently but also begin to provide manufacturer customers with a streamlined and differentiated way to conduct business with us on a global scale.
We shape health care delivery by leading in customer care both through exceptional service and through meeting customer needs amidst a changing regulatory and operating environments.
While we had a substantial use of cash in our December quarter most notably of course from the Walgreens contract implementation completing the equity hedge and related investments we are making we forecast that we will continue to generate cash over the remainder of the year as we work through the timing of the on-boarding of the Walgreens business.
We continue to exercise financial discipline.
And as our cash flow normalizes we will deploy capital wisely and with a view to both growing our business and returning funds to shareholders.
Our interest in potential acquisitions and other investments particularly in the specialty and manufacturer services area continues and extends to opportunities on the international front as well.
Finally we expect to resume meaningful share repurchases during the year.
In conclusion I am pleased with both the performance we delivered in our first fiscal quarter and the progress we have made against our priorities for fiscal 2014.
This quarter was a solid start to a successful year and I have great confidence that our knowledgeable associates will continue to rise to the occasion help us meet our objectives and thus ensure a bright future for AmerisourceBergen and all of our stakeholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased that we reported a solid first quarter.
We knew that this would be a transition year as we onboard the Walgreens direct-to-store distribution business.
We knew that we would have to build infrastructure including hiring employees upgrading information technology and investing in our core distribution facilities.
We also are -- we are -- we also are investing a significant capital in establishing appropriate inventory levels.
With all of these moving parts we're pleased with our progress after 1 quarter and we're tracking to our full year expectations.
My initial remarks will focus on our adjusted results from continuing operations.
In our press release that we issued this morning we included a reconciling table between GAAP and adjusted results and we highlight the specific items that we excluded.
The items are consistent with what we communicated at our December Investor Day.
I will cover 2 of the large GAAP items warrants and LIFO later in my discussion.
Let's begin our review of ABC's first quarter '14 financial results starting with the top line.
Revenues were $29.2 billion up 38.5% compared to last year's quarter.
The increase was due to strong revenue growth in both of our segments but especially Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Our Drug Company distributed brand drugs under the Walgreens contract for our first full quarter of business.
This drove about 80% of our overall ABC increase.
Excluding the Walgreens revenue change our consolidated revenues would have grown as a percentage in the high single digits.
The December quarter's adjusted gross profit was $725 million up nearly 12% compared to last year's quarter.
The increase was primarily due to the revenue increase within the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Operating expenses.
This quarter total adjusted operating expenses were $402 million up about $49 million or about 14%.
About 80% of the expense increase was specifically tied to our businesses and supports revenue growth.
The remaining 20% is related to corporate support costs mostly IT which are required given the increased operating complexity of our business.
Our corporate costs are fully allocated to our businesses each quarter.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $323 million up 9%.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.11% down 30 basis points compared to last December quarter.
In our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment we had a significant increase in lower-margin brand drug business and to a much lesser degree added support costs.
This negatively impacted the segment margin and the overall ABC consolidated margin.
This margin change is consistent with what we have previously discussed including at our December Investor Day.
We expect our Q1 operating margin to be the lowest of our 4 quarters in fiscal '14.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense was relatively flat to last year.
Borrowings on our credit facilities to support the working capital build were made near the end of December which limited our incremental interest expense in the current quarter.
Income taxes.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate was 38.2% for the current quarter.
We expect our full year adjusted tax rate to be fairly consistent with our current Q1 tax rate.
Our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operation in the current December quarter was $0.80 an increase of about 10%.
Our adjusted diluted share count was relatively flat to last year's quarter.
At December 31 we had approximately 230 million shares outstanding.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the December quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were $28.6 billion up 39% versus the same quarter last year.
As mentioned earlier Drug Company led the way with revenues up over 40% due primarily to new brand drug revenues under our Walgreens contract.
However we also had considerable growth with our large PBM customer up slightly over 10% primarily from additional lines shipped previously from the brand manufacturer direct to the PBM now being purchased and warehoused by the Drug Company and shipped to the PBM.
This shift started the second half of last fiscal year.
As a reminder for the current quarter sales to Walgreens and our PBM customer were virtually all brand drugs at a lower margin.
Finally our Drug Company's alternate site segment had higher revenue growth as a percentage in the mid-teens.
Customers in this segment have a product mix that is weighted towards higher-priced branded specialty drugs.
And the large customers of course have a modest margin.
Specialty Group revenues increased to solid 8%.
Consistent with last year our ASD and Besse Medical businesses led the way with revenue growth significantly above the market percentage growth in the high teens.
Both of these businesses combined account for slightly less than half of our overall specialty revenue.
Our oncology supply business was down slightly versus last year as expected due to Medicare reimbursement challenges.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and specialty are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we have reported these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit.
The segment's gross profit was up by about $66 million or 12.5%.
Drug Company was the driver of the majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of their strong revenues.
Drug benefited from contributions from the new Walgreens contract and to a lesser degree contributions from generics from higher revenues some price appreciation and slightly better-than-expected benefits from the mid-December launch of a new generic drug.
As a reminder this is the last quarter that the Drug Company will have a meaningful headwind from the Topco contract loss which negatively impacted gross profit due to the sizable generic sales to this customer.
Our Drug Company did benefit in the current December quarter from a few early price increases from brand manufacturers.
We expected to see these early in the March quarter the traditional time period which is where we had them in our plan.
The Specialty Group had solid gross profit growth due to the strong revenues that I highlighted earlier from ASD and Besse Medical.
These contributions offset oncology supply being down somewhat year-over-year due to lower revenues and also lower contributions from key generic drugs.
Even though generic Vidaza did launch during the -- in the current quarter it wasn't enough to offset lower contributions from mature generic oncology drugs.
Operating expenses.
As expected this segment has a -- had a sizable increase in operating expenses and most of the increase was from the Drug Company.
We are making investments in our core drug business to support substantial volume growth and maintain high service levels.
In the current quarter labor delivery and IT were the main drivers of the expense increase.
Adjusted segment operating income was about $287 million and up by about 7.5% versus the prior year quarter.
Again most of the increase was from the Drug Company.
Our Specialty Group excluding oncology supply with their headwind had a strong quarter with operating income growth as a percentage in the high single digits.
Moving to our Other reporting segment.
As a reminder Other is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
In the current quarter segment revenues increased about 20% to $604 million.
Our World Courier business had solid revenue growth especially in our U.S.
and Europe regions driven by strong customer demand.
In fact in the 6 quarters that we've owned World Courier this marks their best revenue quarter to date.
Our TheraCom distribution business which is part of our consulting business also had high revenue growth due primarily to 2 new products that launched in the middle of last fiscal year.
TheraCom accounted for most of the Other segment's revenue dollar growth.
From an operating income standpoint we had growth of about $6 million or nearly 21% led by World Courier.
Due to the nature of the World Courier business with the cost platform that is primarily fixed as revenues grow they benefit from expense leverage.
As a reminder World Courier had some revenue seasonality in January and February which will negatively impact the profitability of the business.
Consequently we expect the Other segment will have lower profitability in the March quarter.
Let me switch gears and cover 2 other items warrants and LIFO.
Both of these items are excluded from our adjusted earnings.
Given the high GAAP expense amounts I will provide brief commentary on these noncash items.
Warrants.
At December 31 the fair value of the warrants increased significantly to $895 million driven primarily by the increase in our share price during the December quarter.
Under accounting rules we are required to cash up the amortization expense as if the fair value of the warrant had been $895 million back on day 1.
As a result the GAAP warrant expense this quarter was significantly more than the prior quarter ended September '13.
Said another way if our ABC share price remains at the same price at March 31 as it was on December 31 and all other assumptions being equal we'd expect warrant amortization expense to be in the $65 million range in the March '14 quarter.
Related to the warrant.
At December 31 we are about 98% complete with our hedging program.
In early January we successfully finished the program.
In total we spent just under $370 million.
We now have cap call options to buy 27.2 million shares at an average price of $52.
The warrants when exercised in 2016 and 2017 represent about 45.4 million shares.
As we have stated in the past our long-term financial objective is to grow our EPS as a percentage in the mid-teens.
Given this and our historical price earnings ratio we expect to have a very positive return on the capital invested with this hedging program.
Just to cover LIFO briefly.
We recognized a GAAP expense of approximately $58 million which represents about 25% of our full year estimate.
Our full year LIFO expense which has a high degree of variability was calculated using several assumptions including a brand inflation rate a generic portfolio deflation rate and our forecasted Drug Company brand and generic inventory mix at year end.
Now let's move to our balance sheet and cash flows.
As we communicated at our December Investor Day we paid a large number of August supplier invoices related to our Walgreens brand inventory build in October.
Also during this quarter we brought in and paid for additional Walgreens inventory and funded our hedge program.
Because of these items our cash balance is low by historical standards at December 31.
And we also had borrowings outstanding under our credit facilities.
Our cash position was fully expected and that's why we increased our borrowing capabilities last fiscal year.
Beginning in January because of our investment-grade rating when needed we have been able to issue commercial paper at very attractive interest rates.
Our use of cash from operations was about $1 billion in the current quarter a significant increase compared to the use of cash of $242 million in last year's quarter.
We typically see a seasonal inventory build in the December quarter.
Because of our new scale the inventory requirements were even more significant.
We also added inventory to support the growth in our revenues and support high service levels.
Both of these items impacted and increased our use of cash in the current quarter.
We fully expect our cash flow to improve beginning in the March quarter as our seasonal inventory levels decrease offset in part by an increase in Walgreens-related generic inventory.
As we phase in this generics business our cash flow improves as invoice payment terms from generic suppliers tend to be more favorable than those from brand suppliers.
In summary our strong financial standing including significant flexibility under our credit facilities will enable us to successfully navigate through the timing of these swings in working capital and cash.
During the December quarter our share buybacks were $20 million.
We ended the quarter with about $1.1 billion available on our share repurchase authorizations.
Now let's turn to fiscal '14 guidance.
Since we have only finished our first quarter of our fiscal year our EPS guidance remains unchanged at $3.60 to $3.73.
As highlighted earlier our current December quarter EPS did benefit slightly from the earlier-than-expected brand price increases at the expense of the March quarter.
Our operating income dollar growth guidance 12% to 16% also remains unchanged.
And guidance around free cash flow CapEx and share repurchases remains unchanged too.
Two targets that we have updated relate to our revenue and operating margin guidance.
Due to higher growth rates projected by our large customers mostly brand drug business in our Drug Company we now believe our revenue growth for fiscal '14 will be 30% to 34%.
We have also updated our operating margin guidance.
We previously guided to a decrease in basis point in the high teens.
Based on the better-than-expected revenues we now believe our consolidated operating margin will decrease between 20 and 23 basis points for the full fiscal year.
As I wrap up my comment let me finish by reiterating.
We're pleased with our results for the first quarter and at this point in the year our results are where we expected them to be.
Thank you for your time today and your continued interest in ABC.
Now here is Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] John please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] And the first with Tom Gallucci with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just curious you picked up some business from Express on the branded side last year.
You've got the -- sort of improving purchasing power over time with the Walgreens and Alliance Boots relationships.
I'm wondering if your conversations with customers have changed to the extent there's other customers that may be looking to use you more than they have in the past for their distribution needs or if you're seeing any changes in RFP language from customers that are outside your core base that there may be a bias toward using distributors in general a little bit more than they have in the past.
Yes.
Tom thanks very good question.
I've made the comment that I think definitely the prominence of ABC increased.
And I think we even used in the prepared text the word groundbreaking.
I still believe our deal had just tremendous finesse and thought to it and we work very hard on it.
And what's probably more important is that with the Gulfport situation we're all working very hard on the collaboration aspect and continue to get along really well and share a common view of the markets and a desire to help each other advance our respective positions.
So just practically speaking I meet with my counterparts face-to-face virtually every month.
In terms of the customer environment I think everyone's much more interested in talking to us people that we didn't necessarily interact with.
Definitely from the supplier perspective a lot of intrigue a lot of discussions about what does this mean.
I think we've had to go through clearly a vastly different and a more differentiated complex structure.
On -- in the independent side we still believe that as we said last quarter that there's no any particular customer we've lost.
Our relationships with our buying groups are very strong and we're not seeing any real changes in RFP language.
ABC remains very focused on compliance with our customers.
And we think we have potentially even a better mousetrap to make them even more interested in compliance and our belief that ABC is the best partner for them as generics are even a more important part of their future care delivery.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a quick follow-up just on that last point you just made regarding independence.
You mentioned I think in your prepared remarks expanded offerings in the Good Neighbor Pharmacy program.
Can you offer any more color in that regard? Yes.
So I was with David Neu and the team last July at our Independent Pharmacy Conference and we had a lot of questions.
I think it's probably the best attended mind sessions ever been there.
And I had a lot of just one-on-one discussions with key customers.
They really are looking for us for a greater role.
They understand that not only ABC but the wholesale industry has over time been a very good friend to them and really enables them to offer a lot of the chain-like services.
Then you look at what we do with Walgreens and I think it also extends to our other key customers.
And they say "Help us navigate these changes.
Help us look at third-party networks.
Help us participate in preferred networks performance networks.
Help us look at some of the regulatory changes that are coming.
Let's do more on the front store.
Let's do more on the store layout and marketing." And all these things are -- we're hard at work on them.
And definitely the new capabilities that we have access to whether it's in third-party network negotiations whether it's a medication therapy management are all starting to come more into shape.
And we're expected to deliver these and it's a key priority for the team.
So we're excited about the future we're excited about what the partnership will mean to Good Neighbor Pharmacy and I think that that message is resonating with our customer base and our supply base.
And that's from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Steve it sounds like that you're getting more business from Walgreen than you initially anticipated.
So when we model for the remaindering of the year should we still assume the $0.20 contribution net contribution from Walgreen for the year or is there some upside to that number? Yes.
They did an acquisition that's probably fairly significant.
But I think we might have been somewhat conservative but it's still early.
We are starting to do the generics this week which we believe we will execute flawlessly against.
And Tim maybe you could talk more specifically about the guidance for the rest of the year on revenue.
Yes.
And I would say Ricky that we're still tracking to that number that we gave before the $0.20 that we've talked about.
It's early a lot of moving parts complexity of rolling out the generics business so we're not ready to change that income number.
We did change we up the top line revenue number just from some of the trends that we've seen with our larger customers growing a little bit faster with our brand business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on the generic and branded environment.
I know I think Tim you mentioned that branded inflation there were some early price increases in the December quarter in -- ahead of March.
But when we kind of backtrack the data it seems that brand inflation year-to-date in January seems to come in very strong.
Obviously the Cymbalta launch has some interesting dynamic.
So if you can -- if I think about what you're seeing year-to-date in January compared to your earlier expectations how are you tracking? And then also on generic inflation I know that this -- the September quarter was very strong.
I think you quantified it at $0.03 to $0.04.
When we think about generic inflation in December quarter was it stronger or weaker than what you saw in the previous quarter? All right.
Let me jump in and handle brand first.
I mean I did mention in my prepared comments we saw some price increases early and we think maybe it's just because the way the holidays fell this year.
But we probably saw maybe a couple of penny benefit in this quarter.
And traditionally again those manufacturers were in that January February March time frame.
So we -- but I would say overall brand inflation has been pretty strong consistent with where we saw last year and last year was a record year.
And what we've seen so far in January for the March quarter it still seems pretty strong consistent with what we've seen.
So it does appear that it's not slowing down.
In terms of generics I think you're right Ricky.
Our September quarter was a record quarter for generic inflation.
We had quite a few price increases larger -- in that summer time period and a few of those carried over with our inventory and the way we sell them through into this quarter.
But overall I mean this quarter did moderate a bit.
We saw very limited new increases in Q1 which we kind of expected.
And so I would say for this quarter the current quarter December it's kind of in line where we thought and it's definitely down sequentially from last quarter and -- but it's kind of tracking to what we thought and what we planned.
And that will be from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Tim you may have mentioned and it might have missed it just a spike sequentially in the other revenues.
What happened at World Courier or TheraCom that was such a pop year? What was new this quarter versus the last quarter? Yes thanks Bob.
We definitely saw a nice increase in that Other segment.
And again a big part of that Other segment that top line is TheraCom which is -- at both consulting and distribution.
And that distribution business is doing pretty well.
They added a couple of products late last fiscal year so we're still kind of getting that benefit this year.
They drive most of that revenue increase so -- but unfortunately they're a little bit of a -- more of a traditional lower-margin distribution business.
And so TheraCom is driving the top line.
World Courier is definitely driving that operating income.
And their revenues were very solid what we -- better than what we expected but a nice -- a better-than-expected contribution in terms of op income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the AR days continued to tick higher.
Is that just a product of the specialty business growing quicker? Where do you see that leveling off? Yes.
We saw a little bit of an increase I think again because of our new contract with Walgreens were up a little bit and again will -- that will probably tick up a little bit more as we onboard that.
But -- so I think we will see that tick up a little bit.
But the other -- from a cash conversion -- viewing the cash conversion there we should definitely see a tick up in our AP also as we onboard the generics.
And that's Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Tim can you just maybe talk about the margin impact to bringing on generics for Walgreens? You're talking about more margin degradation with more revenue but is there a difference in the margin that you'll see on generics? Is this a typical generic type of relationship or is it a different relationship that you'll have with Walgreens? Yes.
No we expect that our margin will improve as we move through the quarters here.
That's what we've guided to.
Again we've talked about Q2 being our best margin quarter and then 3 and 4 certainly being stronger than 1 so we benefit from that generics business with Walgreens.
And we also benefit at the end of the year with our contributions from the procurement JV.
So again the margin will get better.
And then also as we lap and get into the next full fiscal year '15 the margins will get better.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly any thoughts Steve for -- around early read on the Affordable Care Act and then the impact that your clients are seeing on the volume side? Yes.
Thanks Lisa.
We don't really look at prescription trends as we do at volume.
I mean when we do our plan we do it bottoms up we talked a lot about of the big customers there.
Obviously the revenue is a bit stronger than we expected.
Some of those larger customers are growing fast than we expected but no real trends here that we could point to on the Affordable Care Act.
I think if anything we probably had expected greater patients' interest increase this year than we now would be expecting just in line with the general uptake on the website et cetera but nothing specific.
And we'll go to Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to generic pricing.
I think in your original guidance the assumption was that generic price inflation would moderate this fiscal year.
You touched on how it's been playing out just maybe a more specific update of what you saw in the quarter.
And then I guess more specifically if the trend continues should we view that as upside to your current outlook? Yes.
Bob I -- in my comments before when I answered the question for Ricky I mean we -- the inflation so far for Q1 is down versus 4 but it's where we expected.
And remember our guidance was that it would moderate this year some so it's pretty much tracking to where we thought.
And I would say that in terms of upsides for the year clearly if there is a stronger pricing environment that would help us.
But at this point we've always said that generic price appreciation it's very limited it's typically tied to some type of supply chain disruption and it's very hard to predict when and if they will come.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the next generation Good Neighbor program that you've mentioned Steve it sounds like you see some opportunities to enhance the offering given your relationship with Walgreens and Boots.
Any specifics you can share on how this offering differs from what you had before? And I guess probably more importantly how is your offering around your generic program going to differ or compare to your competitors? Have you seen any changes on their generic offerings to independence? Well we were very proud that again we've got named by J.D.
Powers as having a very high quality program and that Good Neighbor Pharmacy brand continues to be well recognized and that's voted on by the customers.
So we were rated the #1 community pharmacy group and I think there's more we can do.
It's definitely one of the biggest upsides that we have that independent customer base purchases approach are so important to ABC and our financial position.
So it makes a lot of sense for us to carry on investing in that segment.
And we -- well I talked a lot about front store about business coaching programs about clinical systems about performance networks.
And we're looking at all of these things.
We also have access to some interesting capabilities that we didn't -- hadn't even realized with Walgreens.
I'll give you one example.
We think that local compound is going to become much more important and a lot of our stores are interested in doing that.
And there's just tremendous capabilities within Walgreens to help some of the community pharmacies get into their business more deeply be it for the veterinary business or be it for any of the local patient needs pediatric needs so that could be an important differentiator.
I mean the more that -- we both have a common belief all we can do at the retail level with patients that that's going to be a big driver of performance in those pharmacies so we have a shared vision there.
And that's from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I recall the generic was going to start a little bit later.
Is this sooner than you thought or I might just not remembering that correctly? No John this is pretty much where we thought it would start.
We really did plan to start in January.
Initially we planned to do it consistently with our regions but we're now really doing it very much hand-in-hand with Walgreens where they're able to really get out of some distribution business and really create that efficiency with us so we're doing that very collaboratively.
We would very much expect to finish this during calendar '14 but hopefully could even bring that forward a bit.
But there's no hard finish here like there was with the brand conversion.
Odd start I should say.
We really had to do the conversion by September 1 and that was probably the biggest pressure that we felt within our supply chain network.
Here it's more collaborative but I think as you would come to expect from ABC and our distribution logistics businesses we expect that we are going to be able to do very well there and hopefully finish it maybe even this fiscal year but potentially into the start of our next fiscal year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And secondly as you work the JV and negotiate with your key suppliers when do you expect those negotiations to be wrapped up? And do you have some idea of what the contribution from the JV might look like to earnings? Yes.
Well we came into an existing joint venture between Alliance Boots and Walgreens.
And I think we determined we know it's substantial diligence that that was a really exceptional partnership for us to belong to.
Certainly we gave a lot of consideration to that because we tied that directly to the warrants that was -- and as well as that the third bucket we talk about which is really the future collaboration and we talked about transformation as one example of that.
But we -- sorry I'm just -- what was the...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When do you expect to have the negotiations? Okay about the timing of those.
So we've talked about it impacting our fourth quarter.
We're deep in those negotiations now.
We'll have a much better idea probably in the next quarter.
But definitely we expect to see some benefit in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so to be done by then or substantially completed by the fourth quarter? No.
When you look at our calendar firstly you should see the full run rate of that -- those contracts but not before then.
It's complete.
We're doing really anything so...
And remember John you're dealing with -- you're negotiating with over 100 generic suppliers so it takes time it's complicated and it takes a long time to get to the finish line with an executed contract.
So we'll -- they will be phased in between this year and next year.
And we'll go into Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff Bailin in for Glen.
And maybe to continue on the generic sourcing.
Obviously probably early days but in light of some of the actions by other members in the pharma supply channel on their own sourcing initiatives can you characterize maybe how there might be any change in the attitude or discussions with the generic manufacturers and suppliers? Well we've been in Switzerland we've been with the web ad folks we're with them fairly often and we understand the messaging that they're having back to manufacturers.
And I can't really comment on our competitors expect to say that we expected that this transaction that we entered into would have consequences for our -- compared to those our customers that definitely that it was a landscape changer.
So just to reiterate what we think are some of the real value drivers of our partnership we provide value for both AmerisourceBergen and Walgreens as well as for the manufacturer.
We're taking a very long-term approach.
We are coordinating we are actually creating efficiencies in the U.S.
by moving from really 52 centers between Walgreens and ourselves to 26 essentially.
Really all the Walgreens stores will be getting all their pharmaceutical products from us so we think that that creates a lot of efficiency.
Just think about fewer invoices fewer chargebacks more consolidated purchasing so just a lot of efficiencies being created.
And then the more that we've come to live with this partnership and it's almost a year now we really do believe it's a win-win agreement for our suppliers and for both companies -- so including Alliance Boots.
So we -- it's a long-term contract that clearly the equity position creates a lot of shared incentives.
And we really do just believe that it's the most innovative and elegant approach to a global sourcing and long-term supply chain contract agreement.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe just to shift to Specialty Group for a moment.
As you hear from pharmacy benefit managers looking to maybe more aggressively manage specialty drugs covered previously under the medical benefit have you seen any derivative impact for your community oncologist customers or your overall specialty business? Well we often draw the distinction between specialty -- through specialty pharmacy business that is really shipping specialty medications to patients sometimes under different -- for the top benefits in many cases or self administered products when you think about areas like rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis.
Those are big areas for specialty pharmacies.
Our specialty business is characterized by -- largely by physician and institutionally administered products.
And we have tremendous market share there not only in oncology but also in areas like ophthalmology dermatology through our Besse business.
We also have a lot of restricted distribution programs through our ASD business to in fact specialty pharmacies and hospital outpatient centers et cetera.
So that's a lot how we think about our business.
So there's been a lot of talk about managing the overall pharmaceutical benefit.
Of course we've commented a lot on the shift from clinic to hospital outpatient and that's driven in fact by accountable care organizations and also by health care reform.
And we notice all those strengths.
Certainly we are there for whatever form pharmaceutical care takes and we will be a leader in whatever side of care is administering these products.
So our business has shifted a lot and we'll continue to adapt but no real clear trend on the specific question you asked here.
And we'll go to Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just one other question I know probably just piling on here on the sourcing but the JV here.
Just as you -- as you're ending discussions you guys talked pretty positively about it at the Investor Day.
At this point in time do you think you are moving at the same -- at the pace you expected? Or is it going maybe faster or slower than you might have anticipated at this point? Charles it's Tim.
I would say it's as expected.
We're pleased we're on target we've had -- our -- we've integrated into the procurement JV our AmerisourceBergen people.
And so I mean I think we're really pleased with where the discussions are going we're still very optimistic on the economics and the value proposition as Steve laid out.
So a lot of work to do but we like where we're at.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up.
Obviously the step up in costs as you're obviously bringing these clients to -- bring onto Walgreens business can you give a sense on sort of how we should think about those expenses as you go through the rest of the year? Should they level off? I might have missed it if you mentioned that.
No we did.
It's a good question.
We didn't talk about it in great detail.
But clearly as we move through the year the next 3 quarters we should see our operating expenses increase.
And what we're forecasting bringing on the generics business which is a lot aligned and it's -- so again the operating expenses over the remainder of the year will bump up specifically in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment and the Drug Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then as we move out into next year as soon as we sort of anniversary it should we see that level off and sort of back to normal? Yes I would say definitely.
Because this year we're making investments in further automation equipment and we're also building a new floor to DC in Orlando.
So it's that investment period this year.
And we're also getting by by using more labor.
So we might be -- I'd say we might be a little bit inefficient this year ramping up that business so we would definitely expect to see some improvements next year.
And we'll go to George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered I'll kind of go with 2 small ones.
Tim you were just talking to Charles about the level of inefficiency on the SG&amp;A side.
I guess any chance you would give us a level of severity or how we should we think about how inefficient? So if we think about the administrative costs or the contribution to COGS from the inefficiency in calendar -- in fiscal '14 how should we think about -- like what the stepdown could be in fiscal '15? Yes.
We -- George at this point we haven't really given specific guidance for '15.
So I mean it will be better in '15 it will be optimized in '15 from a distribution center standpoint but I really don't want to give anything specific at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And I guess Steve 2 quick ones for you.
Number one on the M&amp;A side you talked about international.
I guess could you just update us on your thoughts on international? And number two confidence seems incredibly strong.
What keeps you worried what do you worry about? Boy we squeeze you in and then you asked 2.
On the M&amp;A side we're-- we've done very well in Canada on our specialty business.
And what's particularly encouraging is the amount of joint programs we're doing between Canada and the U.S.
on the manufacturer services side.
So that business is currently being managed within our ABCS business and it's been a really growth for us and we've got a lot of proprietary programs.
I think we're by far the leader up in Canada.
So there just is a belief that a lot of the services businesses that we've developed here are very relevant and applicable to international markets.
When I go like to IFPW conferences or anything like that AmerisourceBergen's expertise in specialty is very intriguing.
And then we have to define what the specialty mean and of course the companies outside the U.S.
are much more vertically integrated than we are here.
You're just really seeing the first parts of that here in the U.S.
So it's -- and then our knowledge of how to run franchises and the Good Neighbor Pharmacy is also very intriguing some of the efficiencies that we've created in the distribution our global sourcing.
So we get lots of questions about these.
I think AmerisourceBergen has been very open to meeting with other companies from all sorts of different countries.
And so -- and we think now with Alliance Boots in particular with the international expertise that there's lots of partnering opportunities for us.
So we're spending more time on this than we have at any time in our history.
We've got particularly in our Specialty Group James Frary and the team are looking at different places where we think they would be relevant so we're excited about that.
The second part of our -- your question what keeps me up at night? Well a lot less than 2 3 years ago when I became CEO it's -- just we've got a great team in place I think we've got a very good customer segment.
The SAP conversion has gone so well for us and I think I've got a lot of confidence that AmerisourceBergen will carry on performing very well whatever the future may bring.
So I'm mindful of what's going on in Washington.
I think the sequestration is a good example of what poor legislation can do to us but I got a lot of confidence that AmerisourceBergen will continue to prosper whatever we face.
So thanks very much.
We'll conclude now Barbara.
Yes yes.
So just -- again there are a lot of moving parts this quarter and I think we executed particularly well.
Clearly a very strong revenue growth and lots of opportunities for us to do more with our largest customers that are growing at above-market rates.
But I'd like to leave you with one thought as we did at Investor Day when we talked about our strong presence really what we call our knowledge reach and partnership and really have you think about AmerisourceBergen as the place which will shape the future of health care and specifically pharmaceutical care delivery.
Thank you very much.
Thanks operator.
With that just a few items on our calendar.
We'll be attending the Citi Healthcare Conference in New York on February 26.
We'll also be attending the Raymond James Institutional Investors Conference in Florida on March 4; and the Barclays Healthcare Conference on or about March 12 also in Florida.
Finally we expect to report our second quarter results in late April.
Thank you all for joining us today.
That concludes our comments.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference is available for replay.
It starts today at 1 p.m.
Eastern time will last until February 6 at midnight.
You may access the replay at anytime by dialing (320) 365-3844 the access code is 313989.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Also as a reminder today's teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time we will turn the conference call over to your host Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Tony.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our second quarter of fiscal 2014.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2013 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2014.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and cannot -- and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments Thank you Barbara and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
I am very pleased to report strong performance in our second quarter of fiscal 2014 reflecting excellent progress in what is an important transition year for our company as well as continued execution against our strategic long-term objectives.
AmerisourceBergen associates have driven outstanding operational performance and have carefully managed through challenging working capital dynamics in the first half of our fiscal year.
I feel several positive themes came together for us this quarter as we really started to recognize some of the benefits of our strategic imperatives during the quarter.
Specifically we continue to make excellent progress around our groundbreaking long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
We continue to see the scaled enhancements we expected from effectively doubling the number of lines we will service in our core drug wholesale business.
This benefits our entire book of business.
Lastly we are pleased with the progress the Swiss JV has made in negotiations with generic partners.
As we have indicated before contributions from the JV will be an important driver of our future growth goals.
This momentum is driving a lot of creativity and energy at AmerisourceBergen and is positioning us exceptionally well to deliver long-term value to all of our stakeholders.
Also notably our portfolio approach to our business is clearly working as all of our business groups achieved or exceeded the operating plans this quarter.
As the imperatives of health care reform become a reality to payers patients and stakeholders we are fortunate to be an integral part of a vibrant and growing industry that is a vital link between the manufacturers of life-saving products and health care practitioners who provide patient care.
So the strategic position we occupy is allowing us to capitalize on some important health care fundamentals as the pharmaceutical industry evolves and specialty and generic medicines play an ever-expanding role in pharmaceutical care.
Our diverse book of business unique insights into manufacturer requirements and how to work in a dynamic regulatory environment combined with the investments we've made and the partnerships we have developed position us well to continue to thrive by preserving and extending our influential place in this attractive industry.
Moreover our reputation partnership philosophy and expanding knowledge of global pharmaceutical markets is settling -- is setting us apart as a preferred partner to assist in developing specialty and manufacturer programs in emerging pharma markets.
In the March quarter our total revenues were up 39% to $28.5 billion driven in large part by the substantial new business with Walgreens as well as strong performance across the rest of our business.
Our adjusted earnings per share were $1.06 up a strong 19% over the prior year.
In addition we had tremendous free cash flow in the quarter of $1 billion.
We purchased $230 million of our shares in the March quarter and announced a definitive agreement to make $100 million minority investment in Profarma in Brazil.
This performance demonstrates both disciplined execution of our financial and operational goals as well as significant steps towards meeting our strategic objective of expanding our businesses internationally.
I am very pleased with the progress we have made on both fronts.
As we continue to expand our global sourcing and distribution services capabilities I believe that our partnership philosophy sets us apart as we strive for collaborative long-term solutions to pharmaceutical care's biggest challenges.
As we have said in the past when you look at where manufacturer R&amp;D dollars are being focused and you look at the well demonstrated capabilities AmerisourceBergen has our specialty knowledge and experience makes us an extremely attractive partner to help our stakeholders enhance the efficiency and coverages with which patients access pharmaceutical care throughout the product life cycle.
Our tremendous reach across all sites of care and our experience improving patient access to pharmaceuticals gives us a unique advantage as we intentionally focus on expanding our breadth and depth in our chosen market segments.
As we continue to increase our global reach through product sourcing specialty and niche distribution and other manufacturer services we will open up new opportunities for AmerisourceBergen as well as for our customers and manufacturer partners.
Our new relationship with Profarma is a great example of this strategy.
With its long-term macroeconomic growth outlook favorable demographics and increasing access to healthcare services and specialty pharmaceuticals the Brazilian market provides an exciting opportunity to expand our international offerings.
Profarma is one of the top 3 wholesalers in Brazil serving the core distribution and specialty markets and chain and independent retail.
Their experience combined with our expertise in Specialty Distribution and manufacturer services provides a compelling opportunity to shape the delivery of health care in a new market for ABC.
A publicly traded company Profarma has a solid track record of operational execution and financial growth and we expect that our minority investment along with our interest in the specialty JV will yield important benefits for both companies for many years to come.
We look forward to working in partnership with Profarma and expect the transaction to close in our June quarter.
Turning now to the performance of our business segments in the quarter.
Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment had particularly strong performance.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation revenues were up 46% driven primarily by the continued onboarding of the new business from Walgreens and strong sales of certain new branded specialty products largely distributed to specialty pharmacies.
Excluding the new Walgreens business Drug Company revenues were up 7%.
In addition to serving Walgreens pharmacies with all of the brand pharmaceuticals they dispense we have begun to service them with generic drugs as well.
The rollout of the distribution of generics to Walgreens is progressing well and on schedule.
We expect to complete the process by the end of our fiscal year assuming we complete our new distribution facility in Orlando late this summer.
In addition the Walgreens and Alliance Boots JV has made progress in negotiating with generic suppliers and late in the March quarter we did begin to recognize some benefit from the joint venture as a result of progress they've made.
There's still much work to be done on both the physical distribution of generic products and with the joint venture but we are pleased with the progress we have made with this important long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
Importantly our hospital health system and alternate site customers all performed well in the quarter and generic sales were strong in all segments.
We don't often discuss our hospital business but it has been growing above market and is an increasingly important part of our portfolio.
Two key drivers in our business with health systems include our expanding ProGenerics sales to hospital customers and also our hospital unit dose program which runs through American Health Packaging.
In addition our oncology service line is gaining traction as sites of cancer care shift.
Sales to independent drugstores increased over the prior year and we continue to make progress on new enhancements to our Good Neighbor Pharmacy program as well as other services for independents.
Price inflation on brand products continues to be quite strong and while we expect that a handful of generic products will experience significant price increases as previously discussed this usually only impacts a few dozen items a year out of a large catalog of products.
We also now forecast that 2 key generic launches we had previously planned for in our fiscal 2014 will be delayed.
Overall like specialty branded products our generic portfolio contributes significantly to our growth and to the value proposition we bring to the market.
The growth we've experienced across our Drug Company has driven the need for expanded capital investments in our infrastructure.
I'm pleased to report that many of the smaller projects are complete and the 2 largest projects the new distribution center in Orlando and the new national distribution center in Columbus are both progressing on schedule and on budget.
AmerisourceBergen's Specialty Group also had a good quarter with revenues up 10% driven by strong performance in ASD and Besse which offset flat performance in our community oncology business.
The community practice we serve continue to face the challenge of inadequate reimbursement for the care they provide.
While we continue to support oncologists' efforts to achieve better reimbursement there's no short-term relief on the horizon.
While our community oncology business did meet expectations for the quarter and overall is responding well to the challenging environment we have continued to see some shift in the site of care which is driving significant growth in the hospital outpatient sales of oncology products.
Our differentiated expertise in specialty products and our understanding of manufacturer and patient requirements for these products will continue to help strengthen AmerisourceBergen's overall oncology offering whether it is in our specialty business specifically ABCS or in our core drug business.
Our unique expertise and our collaborative approach have helped us deliver tremendous value to providers across the health care spectrum from independents to the premier drug chain stores to some of the most prestigious hospitals and health systems in the U.S.
Overall our specialty business is what sets ABC apart and will continue to be a key part of our future value equation.
Turning now to our manufacturer services businesses.
Both World Courier and our Consulting business had strong performance in the quarter.
World Courier has achieved growth in its existing markets and we continue to be very excited about the opportunities to utilize this platform to further expand both our specialty and manufacturer services offerings into other markets.
An added benefit of World Courier has been that it has really enhanced our global capabilities as we essentially learn to operate in 52 new countries.
This has added experience and knowledge not only into our business operations but importantly into our corporate capabilities.
For example in areas such as treasury tax HR and legal/regulatory.
As we evaluate Profarma and other international expansion opportunities these capabilities will set us apart as we look to create an expanded global presence.
So as we come up to almost 2 years that we have owned World Courier we are so pleased to have added this highly skilled company and its associates to our portfolio.
Our Consulting businesses continue to perform well and to win new business.
The unique combination of these service offerings continues to be an important value driver for AmerisourceBergen and continue to be a key driver of our future growth.
As we look ahead to the second half of our fiscal 2014 we are well positioned to meet our objectives for the full year.
We now expect our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the full year to be in the range of $3.64 to $3.74 an increase of 13% to 17% over last fiscal year and driven primarily by strong growth in income.
Tim will further detail our financial results and expectations and before I hand it over to him I just want to highlight a few key items.
While I'm very pleased with the progress we've made thus far there's much yet work to be done in our fiscal 2014.
We will continue onboarding all of the Walgreens distribution business and to partner with the Swiss JV on global generic sourcing.
We will also work collaboratively with Walgreens and Alliance Boots to find innovative ways to leverage our existing platforms to the benefit of our current and future suppliers and customers.
Our work in developing the next generation of services for independent retail pharmacies is well underway and we remain driven to help all of our customers realize the benefits of participating in specialty products and services.
As we begin to work with a new partner in Brazil we will look to expand our specialty third-party logistics and other manufacturer services businesses by further penetrating existing markets and by exploring other opportunities in international markets.
Of course we will be continuing to invest in our core business which is necessary to improve our ability to operate more efficiently and also to provide manufacturer customers with a streamlined and differentiated ways to conduct business with us on a global scale.
We will help shape health care delivery by leading in customer care through exceptional service and through meeting customer needs amidst the rapidly changing regulatory and operating environments.
As our cash flow normalizes over the remainder of the year we will deploy capital wisely and with a view to both growing our business and returning funds to shareholders.
Our interest in potential acquisitions and other investments particularly in the specialty and manufacturer services area continues and extends to opportunities on the international front as well.
Looking further ahead growing operating margin will be a top priority.
While we expect to be able to accomplish that business mix will continue to be a factor that weighs on our margins.
Maximizing the value of our Walgreens and Alliance Boots strategic relationship will also be a high priority.
There are many moving parts including the timing of generic launches in future years the normal course of business customer renewals including some of our larger customers and the extent to which health care reform efforts translate into pharmaceutical sales and volume growth.
While it is too early to give specific guidance for fiscal 2015 Tim will provide some color on potential headwinds and tailwinds and we will provide detailed guidance for fiscal 2015 at our year-end earnings call in the fall.
In conclusion I am very pleased with the performance we delivered in the first half of our fiscal year and the progress we have made against our priorities for fiscal 2014.
Our associates have performed admirably so far this year and I have great confidence that they will continue to meet the challenges of the marketplace help us meet our objectives and thus ensure a successful future for AmerisourceBergen and all of our stakeholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As we have discussed with investors in the past we have many moving parts this fiscal year such as onboarding our new significant partnership account Walgreens; participating in the Swiss procurement JV; and importantly managing through a challenging working capital period.
We are now at the halfway point of our fiscal year and I'm pleased to report that we continue to make excellent progress in these 3 key areas.
My remarks this morning will focus on our adjusted results from continuing operations.
In our press release we included a reconciling table between GAAP and adjusted results and we highlight the specific items that we excluded.
I will cover 2 of the excluded items: warrants and LIFO after I recap our adjusted results.
We can begin our Q2 review starting with the top line.
Revenues were $28.5 billion up about 39% compared to last year.
Of the 39% growth the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment accounted for virtually all of the overall revenue increase.
As Steve mentioned this was our second full quarter of distributing brand drugs under our Walgreens contract and this quarter we also started to distribute generic drugs direct to their stores.
Excluding Walgreens our consolidated revenues would have grown as a percentage in the high single digits.
The December quarter's adjusted gross profit was $832 million up nearly 17% compared to last year.
About 90% of the dollar increase was due to the performance in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment primarily driven by significantly higher unit volumes and associated revenues.
Operating expenses.
This quarter total adjusted operating expenses were $415 million up about $58 million or about 16%.
Consistent with last quarter the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment and corporate IT accounted for the majority of the overall dollar expense increase due in large part to the continued onboarding of the Walgreens business.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $416 million up 17% and significantly better than the growth we had back in our first quarter.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.46% down 27 basis points compared to last year.
We continue to experience high brand drug revenue growth including the relatively new launch of a branch drug for a chronic disease.
These lower margin drugs continue to put some downward pressure on our operating margin but overall we are pleased with our margin progression being slightly better than we expected at this point in our fiscal year.
Moving below the operating income line other income.
We did have income related to the sale of a small minority interest in a B2B technology company that we've held for several years.
The gain was about $3 million.
Interest expense was slightly higher compared to last year due to borrowings on our credit facilities primarily to support the significant Walgreens working capital build we had in late Q4 of last year and early Q1 this year.
We are very pleased with -- that we've cycled through the heavy use of our credit facilities in the current March quarter.
Income taxes.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate was 38.2% for the current quarter.
We expect our full year adjusted tax rate to be fairly consistent with our current Q2 tax rate.
Our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations in the current March quarter was $1.06 an increase of 19% driven primarily by the increase in our operating income.
Our adjusted diluted share count was relatively flat to last year's quarter.
We have been very effective at offsetting the dilutive impact from employee stock option exercises.
Our share repurchases were slightly greater than the 4.5 million of share exercises we've had during the last 4 quarters.
And in terms of outstanding shares we had 227.5 million shares outstanding at March 31.
Let's spend a few minutes discussing our segment results for the current March quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were about $28 billion up nearly 40% versus last year.
As mentioned earlier by Steve Drug Company led the way with revenues up 46% due again to the rollout of the Walgreens contract.
However we also had considerable growth in our alternate site customer segment up by about 8%.
And we saw very good growth in our ProGeneric revenues as a percentage in the mid-teens on a comparable basis.
As a reminder the Walgreens generic business does not run through our Pro business line.
Our Pro growth was across all customer segments.
Our Specialty Business Group had a revenue increase of about 10% in the current quarter.
Consistent with the last several quarters we benefited by having a portfolio of companies within our Specialty Group.
ASD and Besse Medical led the way in terms of revenue growth.
Certain drugs they distribute continue to gain market share and they've had the benefit of new drugs that have launched.
Our Oncology Supply business which is now about 30% of total specialty revenue was essentially flat versus last year.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and Specialty are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we reported these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit.
This segment's gross profit was $695 million up $108 million or 18%.
Drug Company was the driver of the majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of the positive revenue impacts especially generics that I called out previously.
And late in the March quarter we did start to recognize some benefit in gross profit from the procurement joint venture as a result of contracting progress they've made.
The Specialty Group had solid gross profit growth due primarily to their 10% revenue increase.
Additionally Specialty benefited from brand price appreciation in the quarter some of which was expected in the second half of the year.
Also good news Oncology Supply's gross profit was flat for the quarter as performance stabilized post the sequestration impact.
This business continued to benefit from 2 generic oncology drugs introduced in the last year.
Segment operating expenses were $322 million and up 21% from last year.
Similar to last quarter the expense increase is primarily due to supporting the segment's significant volume growth.
These infrastructure costs are primarily related to added headcount delivery costs and depreciation expense at our distribution centers.
I think it's important to note that our distribution centers' service levels are benefiting from this greater scale and infrastructure investment.
In fact we ended March at a record level of customer order fulfillment.
Adjusted segment operating income was about $373 million and up 16% versus last year.
Again a large part of the dollar increase was from the Drug Company.
Our Specialty Group even with Oncology Supplies flat had a strong quarter with operating income growth as a percentage in the low-teens.
Moving to our Other segment.
As a reminder Other is comprised of Consulting Services and World Courier.
In the current quarter segment revenues increased 11% to $573 million.
Our World Courier business exceeded our revenue expectations primarily from expanded relationships with existing customers.
This incremental business helped offset seasonality that World Courier has historically experienced in the March quarter.
We also continue to see a very good growth rate in our traditional Consulting business as a percentage in the high single digits excluding the positive impact from TheraCom the distribution business within Consulting.
From an operating income standpoint this segment had growth of about $8.7 million or 25% led by World Courier.
We continue to leverage the World Courier business platform and this translates to very meaningful margin growth.
That's all I have for our segment review.
Let me switch gears and cover our 2 large GAAP items: warrants and LIFO.
Warrants.
The fair value of the warrants decreased about 20% to approximately $700 million driven primarily by the decrease in our share price from December 31 compared to the closing price on March 31.
Because of this change in fair value the related inception to date expense is adjusted.
This resulted in a very low pretax expense for the current March quarter of just under $6 million.
LIFO.
This quarter we have now revised our LIFO model based on a key assumption.
Because of this we now expect a higher full year LIFO expense as compared to our prior fiscal year.
Consequently we recognized a noncash GAAP expense of approximately $103 million in the current March quarter.
We now expect that our overall generic deflation will be less as we will have fewer meaningful generics that are losing their exclusivity this year.
Let's move to our balance sheet and cash flows.
We are very pleased with the progress we made in the working capital area and the positive impact on cash.
Our March 31 cash balance was about $700 million much improved from December 31.
Our free cash flow was about $1 billion during the quarter and for the 6 months we are now essentially flat.
Our strong cash flow is primarily the result of 3 items and all are about equal weighting in terms of impact: one the March quarter ended on a Monday which is a very high cash collection day; two we sold through incremental brand inventory which is typical to this March quarter after our seasonal build in the December quarter; and three we benefited by onboarding a significant level of generic inventory as we ramp the Walgreens distribution combined with increased generic revenues.
As we've communicated in the past generics have better working capital metrics.
Because cash was better than expected coupled with some volatility in the stock market in the March quarter we repurchased about $232 million of our shares.
We ended the quarter with approximately $840 million available on our share repurchase authorizations.
Now let's turn to fiscal '14 guidance.
Since we are at the halfway point of our fiscal year let me provide some commentary on 2 key guidance metrics.
The first metric.
As Steve mentioned we are revising our adjusted EPS guidance to $3.64 to $3.74.
We are optimistic about our second half while considering 2 headwinds and a tailwind.
The headwinds: one brand inflation that positively impacted our specialty business will most likely not repeat in the second half and as mentioned we pulled some of this forward to the first half; and two based on new information the launch of generic Diovan will shift out a quarter meaning it's now expected to launch in our September quarter.
Additionally generic Nexium a significant generic launch will shift to early fiscal '15.
The tailwind or the positive item we have.
We will realize earlier than expected benefits from the procurement JV in the second half of the fiscal year.
As a reminder we previously guided that these benefits would start and ramp beginning in our September quarter.
To summarize the revised incremental JV benefit is not enough to offset the 2 headwinds that I called out.
The second guidance metric is free cash flow.
We don't expect to realize the same level of increase in our free cash flow in the second half of the year as we did specifically in our March quarter.
We are still guiding to free cash flow of $500 million to $700 million for the full year.
Let me provide a quick comment on fiscal '15.
It's too early to provide explicit guidance at this point as we don't have all the information we need but we thought it would be helpful to frame out fiscal '15.
I can start with a few key tailwinds.
Our core drug business will realize full year benefits from our Walgreens partnership which means we expect to be fully ramped for the full 12 months in terms of generic drug distribution.
We will also have benefits from the procurement joint venture for the entire year.
Fiscal '15 looks to be a good generic launch year especially now with generic Nexium shifting.
And we expect that organic revenue growth will be good as the economy continues to improve and health care reform ramps.
Let me switch and cover a few headwinds.
In the ordinary course of business we have contract renewals each year.
In fiscal '15 we have a few key contracts up for renewal one of which is the Department of Defense.
This contract expires at the end of March 2015 and at this point -- and at that point the contract will be 10 years old.
If we are successful with the renewal we would expect the pricing to be at a significantly lower market-based rate.
We also expect that compliance with the new track-and-trace legislation will continue to ramp and negatively impact expenses.
And finally community oncology may continue to be under pressure as practices and patients migrate to the hospital setting due to continued reimbursement pressures.
And this may limit the business' ability to offset revenue and margin decline on maturing generic oncology drugs.
As Steve mentioned we will provide fiscal '15 guidance on our year-end conference call.
We remain optimistic about our growth prospects as we look out to fiscal '15 and beyond.
That's all I have for prepared comments.
In summary we are very pleased with our progress at the halfway point of our fiscal year but we recognize we still have plenty of work ahead of us to finish the year.
As always we greatly appreciate your interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Tony please go ahead.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a few follow-up questions.
One on the benefit that you've seen from the JV.
Obviously you were seeing it early on.
Can you help maybe quantify for us kind of like what the magnitude that you're -- that you are seeing and whether that you expect the benefit in the second half of the year to be of similar magnitude? Or should we see an increase as you are more kind of like aligning your generic volumes with those of the JV? Ricky this is Tim and I'll start and Steve can certainly jump in.
I mean we've been very careful about giving that number and we'll continue to do so.
It's sensitive information.
I think the point that we were trying to make on our call and in our scripts is really to show that we're making progress the JV continues -- is making progress.
That's the important thing here.
But we're not at the point where we're going to size that.
Again it's competitively sensitive information.
Research Division</strong> But should we see a sequential improvement in the second half of the year from the benefit from the JV? Yes again Ricky I -- we don't want to give any color.
We've always said in the past that over time that the benefit will ramp.
So that's -- I think that's -- we'll stay consistent with what we've said in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one other follow-up you mentioned 2 things.
One Steve in your prepared remarks you talked about generic inflation and you mentioned that you did see a benefit on some select products.
Can you just give us the context of how that compares to the trends that you saw last year? And then on the DoD contract if you can give us any sense of what it is in terms of contribution to the top line.
Yes.
So firstly on the generic price trends we had a very strong second half of last year on generic price increases.
And I think we've guided that this was somewhat exceptional because it was so disproportionate to a few items where -- these weren't increases of 20% to 30% they were a couple of 100% in some items.
And those were really driven again by typically manufacturing problems or consolidations or unique circumstances sometimes the price of these products simply gets too low.
And we also -- not only about low costs for our customers and passing those benefits on as well as achieving portfolio benefits from our generic offering we're also about quality of supply and consistency and assuredness of supply.
So a lot of our customers clearly regard that as a key priority for us and we saw the distortions of injectable shortages for the last few years which thankfully have been leveling off.
But it still remains an issue.
So those are the circumstances where we see big price increases.
We also saw big price increases in controlled substances where there's substantial regulatory burden for monitoring those.
So -- and as you step back and don't comment on one particular price increase the trend makes sense to us I'd say.
Tim do you have anything to add? Yes I would just say that Ricky generic price appreciation was in line with what we had last year.
It wasn't a driver of our Q2 outperformance.
And in fact it was probably down sequentially from Q1.
Again I mean we gave guidance early in the year that it would moderate and that's kind of where we stand through Q2.
So our outperformance this quarter is really driven by good solid top line revenues generic -- generics pro pro revenue good performance across all of our businesses especially World Courier good expense management.
So I just wanted to make sure I added that.
It wasn't the result of brand price appreciation or generic price appreciation -- brand on the oral solids.
And then your comment you had a second question about DoD.
I mean we did say that as of next year that contract will be 10 years old we felt that was important to highlight.
And in terms of revenue it's probably in the neighborhood of $1.5 billion for ABC Drug.
From Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve can you maybe just give us an update I know you're in the process of onboarding the generic drugs distribution to Walgreens.
How quickly do think you can complete that? I don't know if you mentioned that on your prepared remarks.
I apologize if I missed that.
So we initially had said that we'd finish it in this calendar year we've now moved it up a bit to talk about it being done in all probability in our fiscal year.
As that would be very helpful I think for comp purposes and other reasons.
But we don't -- again we don't have this platform-ish burning platform-ish because we're doing this very collaboratively with Walgreens.
It wasn't like the brand drugs where we had -- the Y2K type September 1 we had to really move that significant amount of volume over to ABC.
So again as we take these generics over Walgreens is shutting down some internal distribution capabilities.
So we're working in concert and we're very -- we're reasonably confident or highly confident that we'll finish this year.
And we've got 3 quarters to do that and it's pretty much tracking to a sequential mathematical type of change as you would expect.
Research Division</strong> Tim maybe if I could just follow up on Ricky's question regarding the purchasing JV I think what we're trying to assess with respect to the margins is it kind of seems like as we look out over the next let's call it 2 quarters it seems like we're going to get an incremental contribution from the generics and it sounds like the benefits from the JV seem somewhat gradual in terms of the way they're sort of ramping on.
And so taking out the seasonality that we saw in this traditionally strong quarter should we think about the gross margins again excluding that seasonality sort of ramping over the next couple of quarters? Yes I guess Glen let me answer it this way I mean you are right.
I mean there is seasonality in our business this Q2 because of January and brand price appreciation this is typically our strongest quarter.
We see really good margins.
What we've communicated in the past is that we do expect margins to improve in Q3 and Q4 really off of Q1.
So they'll drop a bit off at Q2 and increase in Q2 -- in 3 and 4 just driven by continued onboarding of that generic business and those are -- that's really the driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve maybe if I can squeeze one last one in.
You made comments clearly that the margin benefited from some of the brand inflation on the specialty side but you seem to suggest that that was going to moderate in the back half of the year.
And I'm kind of curious as to why that would be? And related to that are your purchasing contracts on the specialty side? Are they different from the fee-for-service agreements that you have on the traditional oral solid side? And so is this something that we should think about over the next couple of years as specialty becomes a bigger piece of the total that brand inflation can really be a sustainable tailwind to the margin? And I'll stop there.
Brand inflation is certainly in the range of our expectations.
Specialty again they -- in a typical drug distribution center we'll handle 30 000 to 40 000 SKUs in specialty it's much narrower and really have disproportionate impact from certain products.
So we had one manufacturer in particular that had price increases on their products that's a semi-exclusive relationship we have in our ASD business unit.
So it was a very identifiable benefit which we had expected to be in the second half of the year which we -- already came early.
So that's what's going on there.
A little bit if I can give some internal credit here with really looking at the business globally under Peyton Howell's leadership on the supply chain agreements we really are doing global in specialty and drug fee-for-service agreements.
And that's been a positive development.
So we're looking at that as one ABC and I think that that's been very helpful.
So there's a lot of commonality in agreements while recognizing that sometimes the requirements are different.
So our relationships with the manufacturers are very complex increasingly complex because of the M&amp;A work that's going on and we really like how complex that -- those relationships are and we are able to benefit from those.
From the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Tim I wanted to go back to some of the comments you made around '15 in the end of your prepared remarks thinking about a number of the headwinds and tailwinds that you laid out and obviously appreciate you letting those out gives us something to work on.
But I guess just at a high level as you look out today understanding these things can shift between now and the end of the fiscal year do you in fact see more headwinds than tailwinds or do you see more tailwinds than headwinds on a year-over-year basis as it stands today as you look out to '15? Bob I mean we wanted to -- it's a fair question.
But I mean we felt like we needed to frame up '15 and talk about certain ones that face us.
I mean I think sometimes investors tend to focus on the incremental positive items.
I mean our purpose today was really to level set and talk about things that happen every day in the ordinary course of business renewals and to make sure that there's just a better balance right between the headwinds and the tailwinds.
We called out some of the bigger ones it's still too early to get really specific.
And again we wrapped up -- I wrapped up my comments saying we're still really optimistic about the growth in '15.
But we want to level set everybody that there are some pluses to go along there are a couple of minuses that go along with the pluses.
But again overall we expect '15 to be a good solid growth year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then Steve just on the hospital setting I know ProGen program sounded like it grew at the hospital level.
So obviously that sounds like a positive trend.
But you also mentioned again seeing the shift of oncology therapies from the community sites to the hospital setting.
On the shift there I was wondering if maybe you could touch on just how different the profitability profile is to the company comparing those 2 channels? And then it feels like this is more of a secular shift at this point? I was wondering if maybe you could share with us your thoughts on where we are today versus where you think this shift between those 2 sites of care ultimately ends up.
Yes and we've seen all sorts of different models.
I mean sometimes a practice of ours gets acquired by a health system.
They really just change their name and it's really a billing-type issue the practice personnel are all still there.
We've also seen practices really get totally integrated into a larger health system.
So I wouldn't say all the models are different a lot [ph] are the same but what's encouraging in AmerisourceBergen is almost all the large health systems and hospital GPOs we've met with said "You've got a lot of expertise in this area we are bringing more oncologists into our health systems we want you to carry on giving them the same level of services." Then our manufacturer partners have said "We recognize this trend we want to carry on getting some of the services that we're receiving from organizations within AmerisourceBergen like ION and Lash so how can you help us?" So there's a very robust discussion that takes place and I think if you even see some of the pharma areas of consolidation that were announced this week oncology is just a key focus.
So this expertise we have is extraordinarily important and I think that we are looking at all the channels.
The other important channel is specialty pharmacy for all our oncologies and -- or our oncology products.
Some of our key partners like Walgreens are really focused on this area.
So how can we do more specialty care at the retail level? How do we look at MTM benefits? So again a very robust area and a good illustration of how our innovation and knowledge of the market is driving value for us and our customers.
From Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve earlier you commented that excluding Walgreens the Drug Company grew I think you said 7%.
That's clearly ahead of what we're seeing in the overall market.
Can you maybe talk about what you're seeing in your book of business? Are you taking market share? Do you have a specific customer segment that's growing particularly faster than the market today? It was very wide but again AmerisourceBergen has a really strong presence in those alternate site markets which is a very big segment.
We have I think 16 different subcategories within that segment.
And it includes specialty pharmacy and we have very strong -- including -- even excluding our PBM relationship with many fast-growing customers there.
And I think that specialty expertise we talk about it really permeating and creating value throughout all of our businesses and this is clearly a trend.
In fact when our sales team in the Drug Company is out so many times they're taking specialty executives in with them because that acknowledges a true differentiator.
And we have just a lot of market share in that alternate site segment which is very much being driven by specialty sales branded sales new therapies.
Some of the new therapies we've always pointed to as a potential indicator of growth and we've seen some very clinically differentiated products that are having an impact on top line growth as well.
Tim anything to add? I think I mean it's a benefit having a diverse customer base and some of our larger customers are growing faster.
And we called out some of these -- a new launch in particular helped us.
So just a combination of things are really driving that above-market performance.
Research Division</strong> So you would say at this point you're not really seeing any benefit at all from the Affordable Care Act in that number? No not yet at all.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then I guess my second question just would be Tim you gave some color around the updated 2014 guidance and some incremental color around headwinds and tailwinds.
If I look at this first quarter versus the Street expectations clearly you beat the first quarter but when I look at the individual metrics you're keeping them pretty much the same.
So should the assumption be that the new raised guidance is around the fact that you bought stock in the first quarter and that some of these headwinds and tailwinds aren't going to play out as we go through the next couple of quarters? Lisa I think -- we feel good about where we're at the second half.
I mean clearly we're a little disappointed on the generics.
I called out generic Diovan and Nexium 2 big ones important meaningful ones for ABC and -- but again I guess my point on the -- on -- even though we've been ahead in the first 2 quarters we still have a long way to go lots of moving parts.
And at this point we felt like it was prudent to move it up some the guidance and we'll just monitor as we move along during the year.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just trying to connect those 2 dots though because you moved the EPS up but didn't really change the other metrics so that was what I was just trying to figure out what was different.
Is it...
Yes.
No I think it's maybe a little bit better performance on revenue again kind of within.
I'd say on the revenue we didn't change our revenue metric our guidance but we will probably be on that high end and that's going to benefit us and maybe a little bit on the share repurchase just coming earlier.
From Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Forgive me if you addressed this on Tim's portion of the prepared remarks we somehow got dropped off.
But on the contracts that you guys are renegotiating now there was some talk that some of them have been renegotiated.
But I'm just trying to figure out how far along are you guys just at least directionally I don't know if you want to take a baseball analogy with what inning you're in or whatever else and how much of that matters if there could be retroactive pricing? So does it matter if it's September versus June for example if it's retroactive to an earlier time period? We assume you're talking about the generic contract increases the generic from the Swiss JV? Is that what you're referring to [ph]? Research Division</strong> Exactly exactly.
Okay.
Yes I'd say Garen you got cut off but again we're going to be consistent.
I mean we wanted to demonstrate that the procurement joint venture is making progress.
They are.
But we're really -- we're not going to get into any specifics about dollars retro when they take effect how many -- we're again we view that as competitively sensitive information.
Research Division</strong> Is that at least a -- I mean is that a linear progression or is that too much to ask? Yes.
No we're just not going to -- we're not going to answer that and again I'm not trying to be difficult but again we've always said that over time these ramp.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
Okay and then the other question is just a little bit more tactical.
For this quarter weather has been an issue on some of the -- some other companies where it's impacted utilization but obviously you guys are -- it was above expectation.
So I'm just wondering could you comment a bit as to what you're seeing in same-store utilization trends? And did you guys even see an impact? And what the underlying metric was if you strip that out? I gave the $28.5 billion in revenue and so we really -- when we do our planning we really look at growth per customer we don't really look at scrip trends but the economy is definitely healthier.
I think general acknowledgment that pharmaceutical care is a very efficient form of health care treatment and still only mid-teen level of overall health care spending.
But also just some incredibly impactful new brand drugs that really impacted us late in the quarter but are significant.
So -- and a fairly stable price increase environment which is a good driver and the more we go across the world it's not a driver in other countries.
It's again one of the themes why the U.S.
market is such a productive market for our industry.
From Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve depending on what you read there seems to be some question as to who will be running the combined Walgreens Alliance Boots where it will based and sort of balance sheet and income statement dynamics.
Yet your conviction in the joint venture is just unwavering.
I mean what -- where is the confidence coming from? So Bob I thought you were going to compliment us on the cash flow I thought that was the least I was going to get from you but -- because we were really pleased with how that came out but...
Research Division</strong> It was respectable yes.
It was respectable okay.
Okay I'll take it as a big compliment.
So I'm not quite sure what to say to your question on who's running it.
No I have great confidence.
I speak substantively to Greg he's a very busy guy and Wade is -- and Tim we speak a lot and at all levels recently just this week for example we had our first big human resource exchange and they bonded well.
And then Stefano and Ornella came they were guests at our management meeting.
Peyton interacts regularly with Jeff Berkowitz and John Donovan in Bern who are just so important to our future as they negotiate those generic contracts.
So I do remain confident that we have the best partners.
And in fact the ease with which we've got on with both partners has been extraordinary it's been -- I'm sincere I think everyone knows me that it's gotten -- it's been very positive.
So that's all I want to say.
So that's it.
Barbs you want me to conclude here quickly? Yes why don't you give a couple of closing remarks? So again I think we talked last time about our tagline in AmerisourceBergen being where knowledge reach and partnership shape health care delivery.
I'm very proud that you very much saw those themes coming through in this quarter.
A lot of the financial benefits that we talked about in the past and at Investor Day are really coming through at the pace we expected.
And we're very proud of this quarter and thank you very much for your time and attention on a busy day.
Thanks Steve.
And before we go I'd just like to highlight a couple of our upcoming events.
We'll be attending the Deutsche Bank Healthcare Conference in Boston on May 8; the Bank of America Health Care Conference in Las Vegas on May 13; the UBS Healthcare Conference in New York on May 20; and the Goldman Sachs Healthcare Conference in Rancho Palos Verdes on June 11.
Finally we expect to report our third quarter results in late July.
So thank you everyone for joining us today.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference call will be available for replay after 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today running through May 1 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing (320) 365-3844 using the access code that's 323936.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and choosing AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC Third Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference now over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's Earnings Conference Call covering our third quarter of fiscal 2014.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations; and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2013 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2014.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the expressed permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thank you Barbara and thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
I'm very pleased to report outstanding operational and financial performance in our third quarter of fiscal 2014.
On what has been one of the most dynamic and exciting years in AmerisourceBergen history we have seized upon unique opportunities to grow our core business we've made substantial investments in our infrastructure and important advancements in our long-term strategic goals and we have prudently managed our capital structure in order to ensure we can both continue to invest in our future growth and return funds to shareholders.
Significantly during the current quarter we will not only celebrate the 13th anniversary of the creation of AmerisourceBergen but we will also pass the $100 billion mark in revenues for the first time in our history.
In certain cultures turning 13 signifies the passage into adulthood and one could conclude that ABC is coming of age by exceeding an important milestone.
While there is still work to be done to complete our fiscal year as we enter our fourth quarter I feel we are very well positioned to either meet or exceed the financial operational and strategic objectives we communicated to our investors and our board at the beginning of our fiscal year.
Tim will provide the details on our financial performance but I just want to highlight a few things.
Revenues were up 38.5% to a record $30.3 billion driven primarily by the continuing onboarding of the Walgreens business and good performance in the rest of our business.
Adjusted operating income dollars were up 26% and as expected our operating margin is now decreasing at a slower rate.
Our adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the June quarter increased almost 30% to $1.01 per share.
We have carefully managed through a challenging working capital transition over the course of fiscal 2014 and our balance sheet is tracking to get back to the levels we were at before the transformational implementation of the Walgreen contract.
In addition we successfully refinanced $500 million in long-term debt at the best rates we've ever had access to and we have implemented a special repurchase authorization funded by 3-year debt in order to further offset the potential dilution that may result from the exercise of warrants issued to Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
Separately we've made very good progress on our normal share repurchase program under which we've repurchased $432 million through June 30.
I am very proud of these results as they are driven by organic growth in our business and by the creative strategic thinking of our associates.
The strategic position we occupy in the changing health care landscape continues to allow us to capitalize on both important fundamental trends in the pharmaceutical market as well as on evolutionary dynamics.
Our reach across product life cycles our partnership philosophy and expanding knowledge of global pharmaceutical markets sets us apart as we focus on driving success for our manufacturer and provider customers.
Our diverse book of business unique insight into manufacturer requirements and expertise in navigating active regulatory environments combined with the near- and long-term investments we have made position us well for growth through preserving and extending our influential place in this attractive industry.
One of those investments the acquisition of a minority interest in Profarma in Brazil closed during the June quarter.
A few years ago we identified Brazil as an attractive market for long-term growth with a particular focus on specialty.
After many years of exploring the market  we identified Profarma as our preferred partner.
Their extensive experience in Brazilian market combined with our expertise in Specialty Distribution and global manufacturer relationships make Profarma an ideal investment platform for us.
We believe that demographics and industry characteristics of the Brazilian market will be an exciting market for us to participate in while we capitalize on the health care market's expansion and the improving access to pharmaceuticals that is part of this emerging economy.
In our assessment we also believe we evaluated cultural fit and the vision of the Profarma team under Sammy Birmarcker and we share a common vision for the future of pharmaceutical care and our role in shaping it.
The specialty joint venture is well underway.
And as we continue to increase our global reach through specialty and niche distribution product sourcing and other manufacturer services we would open up new value-creating opportunities for AmerisourceBergen as well as for our customer and manufacturer partners.
Our global and national strategy is of course driven in part by the long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
The onboarding of Walgreens business is proceeding very well and we are very pleased with the progress that the Swiss joint venture has made in negotiations with generic manufacturers.
The JV has good momentum and we are pleased that we have recognized some benefits earlier than we originally expected.
As we have indicated before contributions from the JV will be an important driver of our future growth goals and will position us well to deliver long-term value to all of our stakeholders.
We have also utilized our partner's experience in markets they have strong offerings in to share best practices and import various cross-cultural or franchise opportunities back to our broader customer base.
We are fortunate to be an integral part of a vibrant and growing industry and one that is a vital link between manufacturers of life-saving products and health care practitioners who provide patient care.
As imperatives of health care reform and other cost-containment efforts increasingly pressure providers of care I believe that our partnership philosophy sets us apart as we strive for collaborative long-term solutions to pharmaceutical care's biggest challenges.
Let's now turn to the performance of our business segments in the quarter.
Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment delivered excellent performance.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation revenues were up 45% driven primarily by the continued onboarding of the new business from Walgreens and strong sales of certain new branded specialty products largely distributed to specialty pharmacies.
Excluding the new Walgreens business drug company's revenues were up 9%.
The rollout of the distribution of generics to Walgreens stores is progressing very well and ahead of our original schedule and we expect to complete the transition by the end of our fiscal year.
There is still work to be done on both the physical distribution of generic products and with the Swiss joint venture but we are very pleased with the progress we have made with this important partnership relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
By the end of the September quarter we expect we will complete the implementation of the strategic distribution contract we announced last March.
And as we enter our fiscal 2015 we will be servicing the over 8 000 U.S.
Walgreens stores with all of the pharmaceuticals they dispense.
Our drug company also saw strong performance in other customer segments as well.
Hospital alternate site and independent retail customers both performed well in the quarter and generic sales were strong across-the-board.
I am very proud that not only did ABDC do an incredible job onboarding Walgreens but as we committed service levels to all of our customers never slipped during one of the most operationally challenging years our company has ever experienced.
In addition to the Walgreens business the key drivers of growth in our distribution business include overall market growth trends new brand product introductions and pharmaceutical price inflation.
Price inflation on brand products continues to be quite strong and generic inflation was better than expected in the quarter.
Generic and price inflation remain extremely difficult to forecast but given what we experienced in the June quarter we now expect fiscal 2014 generic inflation to be slightly higher than fiscal 2013.
Much of generic inflation continues to be driven by less than 20% of our portfolio of generic products.
There is no doubt that there are discernible and dynamic trends reshaping the generic industry including consolidation of customers and manufacturers globalization and increasing quality and regulatory challenges.
In this environment AmerisourceBergen is able to leverage our global contracting relationship with Walgreens and Alliance Boots and our strong manufacturer relationships to achieve high service levels for our Progenerics customers.
New customer interest in our Progenerics portfolio is greater than ever before.
As with generics the value proposition we bring to specialty products also continues to be an important driver of growth for all of our customers including community pharmacy.
We are focused on helping our customers have the ability to meet all of their patient needs which increasingly includes sophisticated specialty therapies.
By working with manufacturers we ensure our customers have access to new product launches and that they are adequately reimbursed for the specialty services they provide.
Having a broad range of customers including community pharmacies who are qualified and clinically suited to dispense these life-changing therapies is an increasingly important trend in health care.
And our demonstrated expertise in this area leads us to believe we are the best partner to help our customers participate in this important area.
Next week we will host our independent retail customers at our ThoughtSpot trade show in Las Vegas.
We expect a strong turnout and a lot of energy around exploring the next generation of programs and services from AmerisourceBergen.
We will tell our customers how we can help them meet the challenges and opportunities of running an independent pharmacy today star ratings indication therapy management merchandising third-party group pricing through our provider network ProGen formularies all of these compelling services an integral offering of what makes our GNP the leading independent franchise offering today.
As we reported over the course of the fiscal year the growth we have experienced across our drug company has driven the need for significant capital investments in our infrastructure.
We've made outstanding progress in this area with the new Orlando distribution center currently in the testing phase and the national distribution center in Columbus scheduled to open early next fiscal year.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group also had a good quarter with revenues up 13% driven by strong performance in ASD and Besse which offset slightly lower performance in our community oncology business.
I am more convinced than ever that our oncology franchise is the key differentiator for AmerisourceBergen and we just have to ensure we continue to develop additional programs and services to spread those capabilities over broader venues of care.
As intense change is driven by technology health care reform and market shifts towards a more consumer-oriented model there is no question that health systems are in the vanguard of health care reform and the franchise we have with health systems is a valuable asset for ABC and we intend making more it collaborative and value added.
The impetus of reform has made our customers very interested and open to forming a closer relationship with ABC as they try and drive greater efficiency and tighter operating methods for their own businesses.
Fundamentally we believe our unique expertise and collaborative approach helps us deliver tremendous value to providers across the health care spectrum.
From independents to the premier drug chain stores to some of the most prestigious hospitals and health systems in the U.S.
our ability to help all of our customers succeed based on the unique business requirements is a principal driver of our future growth and value equation.
Turning now to our manufacturer services business.
Both World Courier and our consulting business performed well in the quarter.
World Courier continues to grow in its existing market and we remain excited about the opportunities to utilize this platform to further expand both our specialty and manufacturer service offerings into other markets.
The unique combination of the service offerings that comprise our consulting business continue to be an important value driver for AmerisourceBergen as well as for our manufacturer and provider customers.
Moreover the knowledge in the regulatory compliance and policy area that we can access from the leadership of our ABCS businesses is a great benefit to us as we look at the enhanced skill set we need to deal with regulators and legislators on complex and complicated reimbursement and technical areas such as pedigree Medicare and Medicaid reform inpatient and outpatient reimbursement et cetera.
As we look ahead to the last quarter of our fiscal 2014 we are well positioned to meet or exceed our objectives for the full year.
We now expect our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the full year to be in the range of $3.89 to $3.94 an increase of 21% to 23% over last fiscal year and importantly driven primarily by strong growth in operating income.
Our near-term priorities include completing the onboarding of the Walgreens generic business completing the Swiss JV negotiations completing the remaining capital projects and completing our business plan for 2015.
Longer term we will also work collaboratively with our business partners to leverage existing platforms and to explore new opportunities.
We will continue to invest in our core business to provide our partners with a streamlined and differentiated way to conduct business with us on a global scale.
Our interest in potential acquisitions and other investments to key specialty and manufacturer services area remain strong and has a global reach.
Of course we will deploy capital wisely and with a view to both growing our business and returning funds to shareholders.
Along the way we would help shape health care delivery by providing exceptional service and through meeting customer needs amidst the rapidly changing regulatory and in operating environments.
It is too early to give explicit guidance for fiscal 2015 but we can outline some of the key drivers we are considering.
Growing our operating margin is a top priority as is generating free cash.
There are many moving parts in the market including the timing of generic launches the rate of brand and generic inflation the normal course of business contract renewals and the extent to which health care reform efforts translate into pharmaceutical sales and volume growth.
We will provide detailed guidance for fiscal 2015 at our year-end earnings call in the fall.
In conclusion I am very pleased with the outstanding performance we delivered in the first 3 quarters of our fiscal year.
Our associates have risen through every challenge and I have great confidence they will continue to enable us to meet our objectives by meeting the needs of the marketplace and thus ensure a successful future for AmerisourceBergen and all of our stakeholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
My remarks this morning will focus on our adjusted results from continuing operations.
In our press release we included a reconciling table between GAAP and adjusted results and we highlighted the specific items that we excluded.
I will cover a few of these excluded items as I work through recapping our June results.
Please note that all financial comparisons are for the third quarter ended June 2014 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
Before I start my detailed review let me cover a few high-level comments.
With 3 quarters completed and heading into the homestretch of our fiscal year we're very pleased with the progress we've made.
During the June quarter operationally we onboarded a significant amount of Walgreens volume while maintaining high service levels to all of our other customers.
And we are also on track to complete a number of capital projects that support our operations.
Financially we have worked through the complexity related to the phase-in of this distribution agreement and the Swiss procurement joint venture to deliver impressive June quarter results.
Additionally we refinanced debt and took steps to offset the potential dilution from the warrants issued to both Walgreens and Alliance Boots.
With that let's start the detailed June quarter review beginning with the top line.
Revenues were $30.3 billion up 38.5%.
Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment was responsible for the strong overall revenue growth consistent with the last 2 quarters.
As Steve mentioned we increased our generic drug distribution to the Walgreens store system.
We've converted about 70% of their stores at the end of June.
Excluding the Walgreens growth our consolidated revenues would have increased about 10%.
More than half of this revenue increase was related to 2 brand drugs recently launched used for treating hepatitis C.
The June quarter's adjusted gross profit was $823 million up 21% again mostly due to the performance in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment driven primarily by significantly higher revenue growth both brand and generics.
Operating expenses.
This quarter total adjusted operating expenses were $429 million up 17%.
Consistent with the last 2 quarters the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment and corporate IT accounted for the majority of the overall dollar expense increase due to the continued onboarding of the Walgreens business.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $393 million up 26% and this growth was significantly better than the percentage growth we had in either of our first 2 quarters.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.30% down 13 basis points due to the large amount of Walgreens brand drug business.
Overall we're pleased with our margin progression at this point in the fiscal year.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense was about $20 million up about 10% due to the new 10-year debt that we issued in May.
As a reminder we successfully refinanced our September 2015 bonds with new 10-year bonds due in May 2024 at the lowest interest rate we've ever had for a 10-year debt 3.40%.
The make whole payment resulting from the early retirement of the debt about $20 million net of tax has been excluded from our adjusted results.
Additionally in May we also issued 3-year bonds specifically to fund the repurchase of shares to offset potential warrant dilution.
The interest associated with these 3-year bonds will be excluded from adjusted earnings going forward.
Income taxes.
Our adjusted effective income tax rate was 38% for the current quarter and we also expect this to be our full year adjusted tax rate.
Our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased nearly 30% to $1.01 driven by exceptionally strong organic operating income growth.
Our adjusted diluted share count was 230.7 million shares down about 2%.
It's important to note that our adjusted share count excludes the impact from all shares repurchased under our special share authorization which the board approved in May for the purpose of further offsetting the potential warrant dilution.
Let's move forward and discuss our segment results for the current June quarter starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were $29.8 billion up 39%.
As mentioned earlier by Steve drug company led the way driving the majority of the increase due again to the implementation of the Walgreens contract.
Our revenues from this business have been better than expected.
Also we continue to see considerable growth in our alternate site customer segment up by about 20% driven primarily by the sales of the hepatitis C drugs mentioned before.
And for the second quarter in a row we had very good growth in our ProGenerics program with revenues as a percentage growing about 20% helped by a generic drug that launched back in December.
As a reminder the Walgreens generic business does not run through our pro business line.
Our specialty business group had a revenue increase of about 13% led by ASD Besse Medical and also ICS our third-party logistics business.
Our Oncology Supply business was down just slightly versus last year primarily due to the impact of branded generic conversions and also pricing on maturing generics decreasing over time.
The sales growth percentages for the drug company and specialty are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we have reported these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit.
The segment's gross profit was $691 million up $139 million or about 25%.
Drug company was the driver or the majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of the high revenue growth especially in generics.
And during the quarter the procurement joint venture continued to execute contracts which enabled us to recognize additional fee income at a faster rate than previously expected.
Any remaining supplier contracts should be executed by the procurement JV this September quarter.
Finally during the June quarter better-than-expected generic price appreciation helped drive some of the improvement in our performance.
Operating expenses were $332 million and were up 21%.
Similar to recent prior quarters the expense increase is primarily due to supporting the segment's significant volume growth.
We are in the last stages of adding headcount and delivery capabilities as we push to have all the Walgreens stores converted for generic distribution by September 30.
Adjusted segment operating income was $360 million and up 29% driven by the outstanding performance of our drug company.
We can now move to the Other segment which includes Consulting Services and World Courier.
In the June quarter segment revenues increased 13% to $620 million driven by the consulting business and specifically the TheraCom distribution business we have within consulting.
From an operating income standpoint this segment had operating income of $34 million or essentially flat.
Our World Courier business had a solid increase in operating income which helped offset consulting being down somewhat due to the start of a new key program shifting to the September quarter and also slightly higher expenses.
This completes our segment review.
Let me switch gears and cover our 2 large GAAP items warrants and LIFO.
Warrants.
The fair value of the warrants increased significantly to approximately $950 million driven primarily by the increase in our share price from March 31 compared to the closing price on June 30.
Because of this change in fair value the related inception to date expense is adjusted.
Consequently our warrant expense was $145 million with roughly half of this total related to this adjustment.
LIFO.
This quarter we revised our LIFO model based on current and expected drug pricing trends and our forecasted inventory mix of September 30.
We now expect a full year LIFO expense of about $400 million.
Consequently for the June quarter we recorded a GAAP expense of about $133 million which brings our cumulative expense through 9 months to $294 million.
Forecasted brand and generic inflation rates are both key assumptions in our LIFO calculation.
We expect brand drug inflation to continue to be strong.
And this quarter we revised our overall expected generic deflation rate for the fiscal year due to the level of generic price increases we had in the June quarter.
Let's move to our balance sheet and cash flows.
We continue to make very good progress in the working capital area.
Our June 30 cash balance was about $1.3 billion.
Our fee cash flow through 9 months now stands at $430 million.
We are in a very good position to be on the high end of our full year free cash flow guidance previously guided at $500 million to $700 million.
As a reminder our fiscal year ends on a Tuesday which is a low cash collection day.
So expect to have a lower cash balance at September 30.
During the June quarter we also made very good progress with share repurchases.
Under our regular share repurchase program we purchased about $180 million of stock.
We now stand at $432 million purchased through June 30.
We are also well positioned against this guidance target which was $500 million for the full fiscal year.
Under the special share repurchase program which is to be used separately to offset expected warrant dilution we've repurchased $142 million through June 30 a pretty good start given that we began fairly late in the quarter with this initiative.
Now let's turn to fiscal '14 guidance.
With one quarter remaining in the fiscal year and better visibility over the next couple of months we believe it's appropriate to increase and narrow our adjusted EPS guidance.
We now expect adjusted EPS for fiscal '14 to be in the range of $3.89 to $3.94 which reflects outstanding growth of about 22% over the prior fiscal year.
Part of this growth is due to realizing benefits from the procurement JV earlier than originally expected and also completing the rollout of the Walgreens generic business earlier than calendar year end.
This means that we will anniversary these benefits in fiscal '15 earlier than originally contemplated.
A couple of additional points about our fourth quarter.
Our revenue growth will slow a bit as we anniversary the Walgreens brand drug business in September.
We also expect that contributions from generic drug price increases will moderate somewhat in the September quarter both on a sequential and year-over-year basis.
So far for July generic price increases have been modest.
One final point about full year '14.
We now expect that our gross profit contribution from generic price increases will be slightly better than what we realized in fiscal '13 driven by the activity in the June quarter specifically the number of price increases and the percentage increases applied to our higher generic inventory balance resulting from higher generic sales this year.
Looking beyond '14 and thinking about the generic pricing environment I may be stating the obvious but there are 3 possibilities with regard to the gross profit contribution we realize from generic price increases: the contribution can increase stay flat or decrease.
2 of the 3 possible outcomes potentially create a headwind in our growth going forward.
When we provide fiscal '15 guidance during our fourth quarter conference call we will provide our directional expectation.
In summary we are extremely pleased with our progress after 3 quarters.
We feel very good about the remaining quarter and we believe we will successfully complete key projects and initiatives and be in a good position entering fiscal '15.
Before I turn it over to Barbara for Q&amp;A let me give a quick callout to Steve who recently celebrated his 20th anniversary at ABC.
Steve congrats from all the ABC employees.
Now here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead John.
[Operator Instructions] And first go to Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It seems like there were several factors obviously that drove the better-than-expected 3Q and what seems to be a better implied 4Q.
I wanted to ask specifically on the Walgreens prime vendor contract and then the benefits you mentioned that you're recognizing from the JV.
Can you guys maybe just give us a sense as far as the upside you're realizing here in the back half of the fiscal year? How much of that is driven from timing of those 2 contributors versus those contributors just being overall bigger than what you originally expected? Bob this is Tim.
Thanks for the call.
Let me -- I think let me answer the question in this way.
When we think about it we're having a terrific '14 where we've raised our guidance.
We're above where we thought we would be.
And I would say I would look at that better than -- better contribution really half from our Walgreens and AB relationship so meaning just better revenues than we expected earlier generic distribution rolling -- being implemented also with the earlier JV contribution.
And I'd say the other half is from just core solid business higher revenues.
Revenues seem to be picking up especially with the hep C products generic inflation.
Our World Courier business is doing well.
So that's -- I think again that's kind of how I would look at where that upside versus our original guidance came from for the year.
For the fourth quarter -- for the second half of the year I'd say it's consistent with how we view the full year.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense and that's helpful.
I guess I was just trying to understand -- specifically obviously the Walgreens prime vendor and the JV are some pretty big factors for you guys this year and next year.
I guess I was just wondering at this point whether it seems like they were bigger than what you had originally estimated.
Or is it more of a timing? Yes.
I think we've been pretty consistent.
I mean originally when we gave guidance way back when we always said that we thought the procurement JV benefit would come in Q4.
So it definitely is coming in earlier.
I would say the rates of the -- the rates from the economics are probably what we expected and modeled.
So that's good news just coming earlier.
Generics are coming earlier than what we thought.
We always thought we'd finish by calendar year end.
But I would say that -- but the revenues are also slightly higher than what we expected.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And I guess just a follow-up on that Tim if I could would be around the revenue guidance raised.
It seems like it's probably coming from -- at least the biggest factor is being Walgreens and it sounds like the hep C both of which are presumably lower margin contributors yet your EPS raise implies -- at least the way I'm looking at it there's some margin improvement.
So maybe could you help us understand the drivers of the better margins that you're realizing or expecting now and to the end of the year? You're right Bob.
I mean the -- we have had some really good sales growth from the hep C drugs.
They are lower -- good dollars but lower margin items.
But I would say the margin improvement is coming from good solid generics generic sales.
And also the second half of the year we had the benefit of generic Cymbalta strong for the year.
Now we're seeing generic Diovan finally launched.
But again having that -- I called out on my script 20% growth in pro especially is helping that margin.
Bob just a quick comment totally in support of what Tim said.
We've substantially completed the implementation of the Walgreens contract but we also completed the SAP implementation a couple of years ago.
And we really started to see some benefits in terms of managing our product mix our contracts with customers.
And this is just a solid operating performance across many many segments.
I was particularly pleased to see a 9% rise in revenue excluding Walgreens because we really are seeing a lift in our overall business more inventory better transportation lines better systems and -- it is really just a virtuous cycle going on in our core drug wholesale business and we're just extremely pleased with them and proud of.
That will be from Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tim and Steve I just wanted to follow up on some of the comments you made on the Walgreens onboarding and the joint venture.
It kind of sounds like both those benefits have come earlier than expected.
And so when we look to your fiscal fourth quarter should we assume that we're seeing the full benefits of both that Walgreens contract and the joint venture in that quarter? And I guess I'm asking the question because as I start to think about my year-over-year growth should we just be looking at normal comps for the back half of fiscal '15 at this point? Well we still have significantly over 20% on generic implementation.
But what we're hoping -- and again we had no timetable there and it really was a collaborative approach given the strong relationship we have with Walgreens on the generic implementation.
We really had contractually essentially the calendar year to complete this.
But we wanted to complete in our fiscal year for the reason it makes the comps easier.
But we expect to complete it.
And honestly one of the guiding factors was Orlando distribution center.
So that was very important to us.
They have a big market presence in Orlando.
There's some seasonality there.
So it was important to us to get Orlando DC up and running.
And as usual ABC is performing ahead of expectations there.
This is the -- going to be our biggest distribution center in the United States.
So that was an important guiding factor but it looks like all things being equal we're pretty confident we're going to complete the generic implementation.
As far as the run rate I think you -- we want to make sure we're letting Walgreens and the Swiss contracting also consistently comment on asset [ph].
Essentially the major contracts that we negotiated there still are some a B&amp;C market share manufacturer that we're competing things with.
But they've done a great job for all 3 of the partners in this alliance.
And also we made it -- in my comments I will point back to the reference we made that the interest in ProGen and the generic global capabilities we have has never been stronger.
So we're very pleased with where we are with the Swiss JV and the opportunities we have.
And I'll let Tim talk a bit about the timing differences.
Yes Steve you hit it correctly.
I mean we will -- we still will be ramping up generics for a lag during the fourth quarter.
We still have a couple of key markets to roll out.
We're in pretty good shape on the WBAD [ph] procurement joint venture there.
But we do have some timing factors in Q4.
I called out that key contract that is kind of starting up shifted in consulting and again some generic launches with Diovan.
But we're in a pretty good position for the fourth quarter kind of jumping off to '15.
Research Division</strong> Tim maybe if I can just follow up then.
I understand you don't want to give any fiscal '15 guidance on this call but last quarter you clearly took the opportunity to sort of remind investors as to the headwinds that are coming in potential fiscal '15.
And now it seems that the fiscal '14 numbers are clearly much stronger than expected as things are coming a little bit earlier which I guess would suppress that growth rate in fiscal '15 even more.
So as we think about sort of the headwinds you called out the Department of Defense contract potentially maybe generic inflation is flat or even moderates some.
How should we think about the headwinds and tailwinds maybe as we approach fiscal '15 and we start to at least think about growth rates in our model? Should it be a more normalized growth rate year now that fiscal '14 seems to be the -- at a more stable run rate? Glen great question.
And again you're right.
I don't want to give explicit guidance about percentages but you're absolutely correct.
I mean we're still consistent with the headwinds and tailwinds we called out.
The headwinds we have contract renewals.
The DoD is still out there.
And community oncology is still a little bit under pressure from a revenue standpoint.
And we have some onetime expenses track and trace we called out.
Just let me spend a minute on the tailwinds.
The point is an important one.
We talked about having a full year benefit of brand and generics.
We talked about full year benefit of Swiss co.
But I think essentially you can say that part of our outperformance this year we have pulled forward some of that contribution.
We called it out.
We said we'd anniversary faster.
So again some of that tail me -- we're still going to have a tailwind into '15 but that tailwind will be lower smaller.
'15 is still going to be a good generic launch year.
We keep hearing that generic Nexium is on track.
And we expect good organic growth with the economy and ACA.
But clearly I want to make the point that we did essentially pull forward some of that contribution from the generics and the Swiss JV into this year to help us.
It's Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- given that generic price inflation is such a big factor in how you think about fiscal year '15 can you just quantify for us what was the contribution -- the bottom line contribution in the quarter? I know in the past you said -- last year I think it was like $0.03 to $0.05 in any given quarter.
So if you can give us the context for the June quarter.
Yes.
Ricky this is Tim.
That's just one thing we're not going to quantify.
It's a driver of our gross profit.
I'm kind of glad you asked the question because when I talked to Glen's previous question at the end it was also about generic price appreciation.
So maybe I can handle that and your question this way.
I mean when we think about generic price appreciation I mean this is kind of the -- this is the second year in a row where we had really good growth in generic price appreciation.
And if you remember our fiscal '13 was quite a bit higher than '12.
And now '14 is going to be higher than '13.
Generic price appreciation it's not in our control.
It's primarily event-driven.
It's somewhat situational in terms of when there are mature generics with limited suppliers you see some price increases.
So I guess my point here is we're not sure the growth is sustainable.
And this is a key consideration when we build our '15 plan.
And most likely it's going to be a headwind which is what I called out at the end of my script.
Even if that growth slows a bit it's going to be a headwind or it could be flat or down.
And what we're saying is we'll -- we need more time.
We need to finish '14 and we'll report out on our year-end call.
Ricky just a couple of additional points.
When we're talking to our global sourcing people a couple of things that they would point out is that the price increases we're seeing we're doing much more volume of generics not only in ProGen but in our other generic sectors.
So we're doing more volumes.
So you would expect that we have greater participation in price increases.
The other thing that they would have us share is that there's a greater amount of products that are participating in generic price increases.
So last year we had some very significant increases in really small products but huge increases hundreds of percent.
This time it's more widespread.
But still probably less than 1/5 of the SKUs are subject to generic price increases.
So hopefully that's some helpful data to you.
But obviously it's something we're managing in our guidance and in our results.
So thanks very much.
And I think I cut you off.
Were you asking something else Ricky or...
Research Division</strong> Yes just one follow-up on this.
When you think about your joint venture partners kind of Walgreens kind of talked about generic inflation is being a headwind for them so from a joint venture perspective are they kind of in effect trying to mitigate some of it by going back to the manufacturer either getting greater discounts? Well it's definitely a good question.
I think -- look having say our manufacturer partners in generics doing well is important to everyone and in all participants in the industry.
And there's been consolidation amongst the manufacturers.
There's increasing quality and regulatory globalizations.
So -- and consolidation amongst the buying side as you all know.
So I think we want to make sure we have healthy partners.
And as our belief a lot of our manufacturer partners are also committed to our joint mutual success.
So there's definitely a headwind from generic price increases for all of our customers until third-party tables adjust which is really just a timing lag.
But it can create significant increase.
Now if it's widespread as it's been more it's probably I would guess more manageable.
It's when you have very significant increases in a few products a couple of hundred percent that has caused real consternation in our customers from time to time until those tables adjust.
But that's -- really it is a timing issue.
And eventually we should see an improvement in the system to adjust price increases in a more efficient manner.
I think that would solve a lot of the provider angst about price increases.
That will be Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I think Ricky just asked the question but I guess the generic inflation turning higher than you thought how does that jive with the procurement expectation -- savings that you're expecting from not only your consortium but others that are popping up? It just seems to be inconsistent with the industry's efforts to bring savings back to that customer to see inflation moving higher.
Not necessarily Bob.
I mean I think we looked at -- we told you we believe that there was an opportunity to work together with Walgreens to get our pricing equalized.
So that's a lot of what we've been doing.
And it's really again a relatively narrow number of products that we are seeing price increases on.
The generic business remains of course a very competitive business from a supply perspective and the new entrants from emerging economies like India and potentially China and other countries.
So it's a very dynamic marketplace.
I've got to tell you now having spent the majority of the 20 years I've had with AmerisourceBergen which -- Tim thanks for pointing out on the specialty side really -- the generic side is extremely interesting dynamic.
And I'm proud of the services we offer.
The partnership with Walgreens has been a great benefit to all of our customers and our shareholders.
So I think we're well positioned.
Tim anything you'd add on Bob's question? No I think you hit it Steve.
I mean it's isolated.
It's a narrow list of products.
It's not that many when we look at our portfolio of generics and how many actually -- most still have decreases or flat pricing.
Again a relatively small percent are going up or having a price increase.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect -- I mean you referenced consolidation of the manufacturers out there perhaps as one response to some of these purchasing coalitions that have been formed.
I mean wouldn't some of those activities continue and continue to create that inflation opportunity for them? It's hard for us to gauge who may or may not merge.
That's definitely something.
But that's why we have a range of expectations.
And I think overall we managed our performance very well.
So Tim do you want to add a comment? No I think there is still -- I agree Steve.
And there's still capacity and there are a lot of good generic suppliers out there.
So it's just really hard to -- again we said it's not in our control and it's very hard to forecast and predict.
As we said less than -- so less than 20% of the products was -- had price increases throughout the year.
And it's a couple of percent less than 20%.
So again generally there are some price pressures.
There are just certain products that through consolidation and unique circumstances that the manufacturers are able to enjoy some prices increases on.
That will be from Garen Sarafian with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First I guess on the operating margins for 2015 Steve you mentioned that that's the top priority.
You guys have mentioned that before.
So I'm wondering the size of the procurement portion of the JV what do you guys see as the top area that are within your control that you're planning to improve on the margin front next year? Definitely growing with the right customer statements making sure that we get all the generic purchases from our customers that we're entitled to so compliance.
And that goes to having a very robust and volume-based portfolio.
That's very important.
We also -- sure we want improve operating margin because last year was the first year that we decreased our operating margin.
But it's also -- it's been interesting to us some of the innovative new therapies and having our customers broadly access them.
We're not going to grow operating margin that way but we are going to grow operating income.
We've got to increase our influence and these are healthy drivers for our customers.
So it's complex.
We are both focused on operating margin but we also need to remember that operating income dollars are important to our shareholders and also drive increased participation by our customers.
So we always manage everything in a mix.
We spend a lot of time worrying about return on investor capital cash flow balance sheet certainty.
So I think ABC manages all those areas very very well.
And we believe there's upside in managing our business very actively from a ProGen mix from a customer mix perspective making sure we're maintaining the right customers that we're winning new business at healthy margins.
All of that goes into sort of the performance that you've seen this quarter.
So when everything comes together like it did this quarter it's really a dynamic contribution from so many areas of ABC sales operations procurement backed by human resources and legal and regulatory.
So it really is -- everything is coming together very very well at ABC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So it sounds like there is no one particular area that you think is a spotlight.
I think it really is a mix of everything.
The sourcing is important the sales management the contract management.
Again the data that we're getting out of the SAP system is extremely important to us our specialty presence.
For example the growth in World Courier this year is above expectations.
ASD and Besse continue to outperform.
And oncology business is managing through a very difficult transition in the community segment.
But again we're using oncology more and more in other segments.
Especially pharmacy has got a big oncology component.
By some measurement nearly 40% of the health system distribution that we distribute is in oncology products.
So oncology remains a very important driver for all of ABC.
One of the areas that Profarma was interested in is oncology knowledge for example.
So it's an important international driver for us.
When you look at the type of products at Lash and Xcenda ABC is businesses -- or managing those are disproportionately oncology as well.
So oncology is an extremely important area for AmerisourceBergen.
And we shouldn't really only think about it in terms of our Oncology Supply distribution business.
ION we believe it's got a lot of upside in terms of physician services and contracting potentially beyond just community oncology.
So those are all important drivers for us.
And that will be from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned that you have a 9% increase in sales excluding Walgreens.
Can you just give us an indication as to what you're seeing out in the marketplace? Was any of those driven by ACA volumes at all in the quarter? Not really.
I mean it's hard to ascertain -- ascribe it to ACA or -- just general script growth is positive.
Again those 2 new hep C drugs have been very impactful to our business.
Of course ABC has got a very big specialty pharmacy business in our drug company where we're servicing specialty dispenses direct to patients.
So we have lots of customers there.
Our alternate care business was very strong.
Some of the new chain business we brought on excluding Walgreens has been very strong; but just an overall very robust growth which we're delighted with.
I mean having a market that's increasing is very important to us.
And I think there's been a lot of discussion about the pricing of some of these drugs but the patient benefits have been enormous the societal benefits.
So again we think that pharmaceutical care is one of the best and most efficient forms of health care.
And I think you're seeing some of -- the efficiency of these drugs is pretty remarkable and we are proud to be a part of it.
Research Division</strong> So those trends are coming through your core like distribution business but your -- also your specialty business is also strong in the quarter versus our expectations.
Is there anything specific to call out there? So hep C is coming through drug distribution.
There is clearly some other factors that are driving overall specialty.
And I think you called out the fact that oncology continues to be on the weaker side.
So is it new drugs that are coming through on the specialty side Brazil? What are we seeing that's really driving the improvement there? What we're saying -- Lisa nothing from Brazil yet.
We just closed it a couple of quarters before the end of June but we expect to grow.
Our ASD business really manages specialized distribution programs into hospitals where they have unique data requirements.
They started off of course in the plasma distribution business which is quite robust.
And then very interesting -- I mean we bought Besse in 1998 and it was doing about $40 million.
And it just continues to extend into other therapies.
And the therapies are very robust in ophthalmology rheumatology et cetera.
These are great areas.
And despite the challenges of Medicare Part B they obviously remain an important product of patient care.
And we continue to do very well.
And I think maybe the payer mix is not quite as high as it is in community oncology the Medicare payment itself.
So we're just doing very well at Besse as well.
So our ICS business it continues to do well.
The Specialty Group it's just got some terrific portfolio of companies.
And at times we've had oncology outperform.
And now when we have some weakness in community oncology it's just great to see other companies really keep their growth rate going.
Thanks Lisa.
Steve do you have some closing comments? Yes.
It's just -- of course it's always wonderful when we can report such a strong quarter to our shareholders and our friends on the sell side.
Just to reiterate as CEO I could not be more proud of how all of our associates came together and worked together to deliver such outstanding performance.
When you look at the accomplishments whether it's in sales operations procurement and the support functions that make -- that drive all those performers and clearly was just a great performance including the treasury department which did such a great job on refinancing our debt and managing the warrant potential warrant dilution et cetera.
So thanks for your time and we will continue to work collaboratively intelligently to carry on delivering results such as we've just produced today.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve.
And just before we go I'd like to quickly highlight that in September we'll be attending the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Conference in New York and then also the Bank of America Conference in London as well.
So please check our website for updates on specific presentation dates and times.
Thank you for joining us today.
And with that I will turn it back to John the operator.
Thank you.
And now ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference now over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate and Investor Relations.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; Tim Guttman Senior Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2013 as well as our quarterly filings for fiscal 2014.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everyone.
I'm very proud of the results that we are presenting today and I commend our exceptional associates for the stellar financial and operational performance we reported this year.
Over the last few years we have examined our industry with fresh eyes and we have taken bold steps to enhance the role of the wholesaler in the marketplace.
The unique knowledge and expertise we have developed our partnership philosophy and our increasingly global reach enable us to influence and shape health care delivery by providing innovative solutions for both pharmaceutical manufacturers and health care providers.
By working creatively to address the current challenges in health care we seek to drive value for all of our stakeholders and I believe we have accomplished all of that and then some in our fiscal year 2014.
In financial terms we exceeded all of our objectives.
Our revenues for the full year were up 36%.
Our adjusted earnings per share were up 24% and we generated free cash flow of $1.2 billion.
We made substantial investments in our infrastructure acquired a minority stake in Profarma in Brazil invested in a specialty joint venture with Profarma successfully refinanced some of our long-term debt and taking both of our share repurchase programs together we bought back almost $800 billion -- $800 million of our stock.
As a result of our financial stewardship we enter fiscal 2015 with tremendous financial flexibility.
Our execution was equally strong from an operational perspective.
We successfully implemented one of the largest and most complex contracts in the history of the industry ahead of schedule.
We opened a new state-of-the-art pharmaceutical distribution center in Florida and expanded and augmented several other facilities all while improving service levels to all our customers.
Furthermore we have enhanced our relationships with suppliers through the introduction of new solutions and through our participation in the Swiss procurement joint venture.
Fiscal year 2014 was a transformational year for AmerisourceBergen.
We substantially strengthened our core business and we head into the coming year with excellent momentum.
Over the last year our entire industry has transformed itself in an effort to better address the changing needs of the health care landscape.
Wholesalers continue to demonstrate that the value we provide to the channel goes well beyond the aggregation of demand and the logistics of getting products from one point to another safely and securely.
We help ensure efficient pharmaceutical care and broad access to products while allowing our customers to focus on caring for their patients.
It is an exciting time to be in the pharmaceutical services industry.
Organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market are improving driven by better economic conditions health reform initiatives and successful launches of new brand products.
Some of those of new products have the ability to cure previously intractable disease.
The R&amp;D pipeline is full of innovative products that hold a potential to make great strides across many disease states.
The combination of an advanced therapeutic medicine and expanding access to health care drives growth opportunities and more importantly meaningfully improves patient lives.
AmerisourceBergen is uniquely positioned to help ensure these products get to market as efficiently as possible and to support efforts to ensure patients have access to these complex new therapy across all sites of care.
Let's turn now to the performance of AmerisourceBergen.
Our performance in the September quarter was exceptional in a year that has been quite strong.
On a consolidated basis our revenues were up 29% and our adjusted EPS was up 36% driven by strong performance across our businesses and tremendous performance specifically in ABDC.
Our working capital trend improved and we finished the quarter and the year with $1.8 billion of cash on our balance sheet.
Tim will provide further details but I want to call out some highlights from our business units.
With each passing year our individual business units become less distinct from one another and instead focus their efforts on collaboratively meeting the needs of suppliers and customers.
This is especially true in the specialty area and our oncology service line offering is a good example of the power of drug company Specialty Group and our manufacturer services businesses working together.
The different perspectives and expertise they each bring to the table creates unique opportunities to deliver value in a fast-changing market and our suppliers and customers appreciate the ability to achieve a comprehensive solution with AmerisourceBergen.
The strength of our results in fiscal 2014 is no doubt a benefit of that collaborative approach.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation of course had a very strong quarter.
Revenues were up over 30% even as we anniversary-ed 1 month of the new Walgreens brand business.
Solid organic market growth and a contribution from the sale of the new hepatitis C drugs also contributed to ABDC's revenue growth.
We brought our new Orlando distribution center online launched 2 new customer centers and we finished the onboarding of all of Walgreens' generics business.
I commend our ABDC associates for the incredible job they did while implementing the largest contract in our history.
It was quite an undertaking and to have done so ahead of schedule and on budget was laudable.
But it was also done in a manner that was not disruptive to our other customers or to the rest of our business.
So I truly applaud and appreciate their efforts.
We are also pleased with the progress we have made improving our generic sourcing by working with Walgreens Alliance Boots and the Swiss joint -- JV.
These financial benefits were also achieved ahead of schedule and contributed to our September quarter and will continue to ramp as we enter our fiscal 2015.
In addition to the new business that we have brought on new products launched on our generic private label program BluePoint also contributed to our growth.
A few overall market trends contributed to our growth as well.
Brand price inflation remained strong.
The new hepatitis C drugs contributed to both revenue and gross profit dollar growth.
Generic price inflation is still an important factor.
It was roughly flat on both a sequential and year-over-year basis for the quarter.
And finally market growth is improving across the board which drove strong performance in our independents health systems and alternate site customers.
One of the benefits of partnering with AmerisourceBergen is that we work hard to ensure all of our customers have access to the latest life-changing therapies.
Whether you are an independent who is qualified to handle sophisticated specialty products or a hospital on the cutting edge of care our extensive relationships with biotech and other manufacturers helps ensure our customers and their patients have access to these important products.
2014 was a momentous year for ABDC and the investments we've made in our people and in our infrastructure will help drive both innovative services and greater operational efficiency going forward.
ABSG had solid results in the quarter as strong performance in our plasma and vaccine business offset modest performance in our community oncology business.
While reimbursement issues persist for community oncologists we believe the provider market has stabilized.
We believe that oncology care will continue to be provided across various venues and we continue to invest in new technology and services to ensure that our customers remain in the forefront of the evolution of cancer care.
Our manufacturer services businesses performed well in the quarter with World Courier coming in especially strong.
The unrivaled service offerings in this area are a key driver of value for both our manufacturer and provider customers.
The expertise we bring to bear in the regulatory compliance and policy area along with our experience in developing patient adherence reimbursement and assistance programs is a clear differentiator.
The knowledge base combined with the immense scale of our distribution businesses and our increasingly global reach make us the ideal partner for those who don't just want to tackle current challenges but see greater opportunities on the horizon.
One of the most gratifying things about the performance we had in fiscal 2014 is that we meaningfully expanded our ability to shape health care delivery and to positively impact the communities we serve.
We have the means not only to continue to make important investments in our business but also to launch and fund the AmerisourceBergen Foundation.
This new foundation will primarily support 501(c)(3) organizations that address the needs of the patients we serve.
We will formally launch the foundation over the next few months.
From a business operations perspective we have launched AmerisourceBergen Global Manufacturer Services GmbH in Bern Switzerland or AmerisourceBergen Switzerland a new entity that represents an important step to support global manufacturer relations and our commercialization strategy.
Peyton Howell our President of Global Supply Chain and Manufacturer Services has moved to Bern and she and her team are developing and implementing the next generation of commercialization services for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
With the dramatic changes in the pharmaceutical manufacturer landscape AmerisourceBergen Switzerland is positioned to function as an intermediary of all types of pharmaceutical manufacturers fostering strategic relationships and focusing on specific new value-added activities.
This new business will provide data analytics and market intelligence to insist manufacturers -- to assist manufacturers with their supply chain effectiveness and will serve as a platform to manage and grow ProGenerics our proprietary generics formulary and other global generic programs.
ABC Swiss co represents a critical step in the process of expanding on international presence while improving the services we offer our partners.
As we have previously disclosed we are nearing the completion of our national distribution center in Columbus Ohio and expect it to be fully operational by the end of the calendar year.
This new facility will streamline certain branded manufacturer contracts by providing a single ship-to point for products for manufacturers who wish to utilize the service.
Through integration with our SAP infrastructure and other advanced warehouse management and materials handling tools it also enables us to redistribute products within our network more efficiently and support our future growth.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2015 and beyond we are well positioned to continue to deliver on our long-term goals.
We aim to grow revenues with the markets grow adjusted EPS in the mid-teens earn a return on invested capital that exceeds our weighted average cost of capital generate free cash flow that exceeds net income and return a minimum of 30% of our free cash flow to shareholders.
We will continue to be excellent stewards of capital and redeploy it wisely to both grow our business and enhance shareholder returns.
We have a strong track record of investing in assets and internal projects that add value to our business and improve our service offering to manufacturers and providers.
We will continue to expand those efforts both in the U.S.
market and internationally.
We remain keenly focused on the pharmaceutical services space which we believe has excellent opportunities for growth in the years ahead and ample opportunities for AmerisourceBergen to continue to differentiate itself.
Turning to fiscal 2015 specifically.
We expect the strong trends in overall market growth to continue while trends in certain specific areas will moderate.
We expect the contribution from generic inflation to be flat year-over-year and for community oncology to be relatively flat for the year.
Operating margins will be pressured as we launch Swiss co and the national distribution center.
And similar to 2014 the fast-growing hepatitis C products will contribute gross profit dollars but at a lower margin.
We will of course continue to benefit from having a full year of the generic business from Walgreens and the benefits from the Swiss procurement JV will continue to ramp into fiscal 2015.
Tim will provide greater detail but in summary on a consolidated basis we expect revenue growth in the range of 7% to 8%; we expect adjusted diluted earnings per share from continued operations growth in the range of 10% to 13%; free cash flow generation in the range of $1.04 -- $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion; and including both of our share repurchase programs we expect to purchase $800 million of our shares.
Following our stellar performance in fiscal 2014 we enter 2015 with good momentum and we are exceptionally well-positioned to meet our financial and operational objectives going forward.
One final word about fiscal 2014.
As I look back over the year I'm of course pleased with our outstanding financial and operational performance.
I'm even more pleased however with how we achieved it.
Through bold thinking and unmatched execution we established unprecedented ways to create value for all of our stakeholders.
We have great partners in Walgreens and Alliance Boots and our innovative long-term strategic relationship has driven tremendous value for all 3 partners with more to come in the years ahead.
Our success in these areas gives me great confidence that we will continue to make vital and differentiated contributions to the marketplace and thereby provide excellent returns to our shareholders while continuing to provide increasing value to our customers.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As Steve mentioned we wrapped up a historic year at ABC as our organization successfully onboarded our largest customer Walgreens.
We are very proud of our organization as we outperformed all of our key financial targets we established at the beginning of the year.
We did this while managing through significant change including heavy investing in our infrastructure.
Even more important we did this without negatively impacting our customer service levels.
Again we want to thank the ABC organization for all of the extra effort made this year.
Before I start my detailed review let me cover a few high-level comments.
My remarks this morning will focus on our adjusted results from continuing operations.
In our press release we included a reconciling table between GAAP and adjusted results where we've highlighted the specific items that we excluded.
We will cover 2 of these excluded items as I work through recapping our September results.
Please note that all financial comparisons are for the fourth quarter ended September 2014 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
I have 3 main items to cover this morning.
First I will recap fourth quarter consolidated and segment performance.
Next I'll spend a few minutes on our full year performance.
The third item I will wrap up my prepared comments covering our fiscal '15 expectations.
With that let's start the detailed September quarter review.
Beginning with the top line.
Revenues were $31.6 billion up 29%.
Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment was responsible for the strong overall revenue growth consistent with the prior 3 quarters.
Excluding the Walgreens growth our consolidated revenues increased nearly 9%.
Roughly 2/3 of this revenue growth was the result of the new hepatitis C brand drugs.
The quarter's adjusted gross profit increased 29% to $927 million.
The growth was due to strong performance at our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment driven by better-than-expected revenue growth on both the brand and generic side.
Operating expenses.
Consistent with previous quarters this fiscal year we had an increase in expense to support the onboarding of the Walgreens business at our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Additionally we had an increase in employee incentive compensation due to our outperformance.
We also expensed the initial contribution made to establish an ABC tax-exempt charitable foundation.
Because of these specific items and the normal seasonality of the September quarter having higher expenses our total operating expenses increased 27% to $503 million.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $424 million up $98 million or a very strong 30%.
This quarter marked the highest growth of the fiscal year.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.34% up 1 basis point.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense net was about $15.5 million down about 17% mostly due to refinancing a portion of our debt that we completed back in May.
Income taxes.
Our adjusted income tax rate was 37.5% for the current quarter.
This brought us right in line at 38% for the full year.
For the quarter our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 36% to $1.10 driven by exceptionally strong organic operating income growth.
Our adjusted diluted share count was 231 million shares down about 2%.
It's important to highlight that this share count excludes both the impact from shares repurchased under our special share authorization and the dilutive impact of the warrants.
I would refer you to our press release where we have included a new reconciling table that highlights the calculation of our adjusted diluted share count.
Let me switch and cover our 2 large GAAP items warrants and LIFO.
Warrants.
The fair value of the warrants increased to approximately $1.1 billion as of September 30.
This resulted in a warrant expense in the quarter of $156 million.
Both of these amounts increased as a result of ABC's higher share price at September 30 compared to June 30.
LIFO.
This quarter we completed our annual LIFO calculation.
Consequently we recorded LIFO expense of about $54 million to reach a full year LIFO expense of $348 million which is higher than last year.
Brand price inflation at just under 12% and inventory mix are typically key drivers of our annual LIFO expense.
However this year we did not have the same level of generic drug deflation we had in prior -- in the prior fiscal year due to the pricing environment as well as the lack of drugs coming off of exclusivity.
These 2 factors contributed to our year-over-year LIFO expense increase.
Let's move forward and discuss our segment results starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were about $31 billion up 29%.
As mentioned earlier by Steve drug company led the way with a 33% revenue increase.
In the quarter we anniversary-ed the start of the Walgreens contract.
Consequently we only had 2 months of incremental brand revenues in addition to the new generics business.
Our revenues in our core drug business continue to be better than expected driven primarily by 3 items: increased sales to our largest customer the new -- the 2 new hepatitis C brand drugs and the impact from a continued strong manufacturer pricing environment.
On the generic side we had solid growth in our ProGenerics program with revenues growing as a percentage in the low teens.
And as a reminder the Walgreens generic business does not run through our ProGenerics business line.
Our specialty business group had an overall revenue increase of about 13%.
We continued to see very good revenue growth in oral oncology plasma and ophthalmology.
ICS our third-party logistics business also had very good revenue growth.
These sales growth percentages for the drug company and for specialty are before intersegment eliminations consistent with how we've reported these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit.
The segment's gross profit was about $790 million up $185 million or about 31%.
Drug company was the driver of the majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of their high revenue growth.
During the quarter generic price appreciation was better than we previously expected and also contributed to segment results.
Operating expenses were $404 million and were up about 31%.
Similar to prior quarters this fiscal year the expense increase was primarily due to supporting the segment's significant volume growth.
Additionally this quarter to finish the Walgreens implementation by September 30 we supplemented our full-time staff with temporary resources in our distribution centers.
Also we are operating 2 distribution centers in Florida which added extra cost in the September quarter.
We will transition all of this Florida customer business to our new DC in early fiscal '15.
Adjusted segment operating income was $386 million and up 31% driven by the outstanding performance of our drug company which includes successfully onboarding the Walgreens business faster than anticipated.
We can now move to our Other segment which includes Consulting Services and World Courier.
In the quarter the segment revenues increased $134 million or about 26% to $652 million.
Our consulting business had revenue growth of about 20%.
Our TheraCom distribution business which is within consulting drove most of this growth.
A few of the key drugs they distribute continue to gain market share.
Switching to World Courier their revenue growth was positively impacted from an adjustment where we corrected intercompany revenues last fiscal year in Q4 '13.
Excluding this adjustment World Courier's revenue increase this quarter was about 8.5% driven primarily by higher volumes.
From an operating income standpoint this segment had operating income of $37 million with growth of about 25% due primarily to the record performance of World Courier.
This completes our segment review.
Let me switch gears and cover a few key fiscal '14 financial metrics.
Overall we did very well meeting or exceeding our revised guidance targets.
Revenue on a full year basis our growth was 36%.
Excluding the positive impact from our Walgreens contract our revenues were up 8%.
The new hepatitis C brand drugs accounted for roughly half of this revenue growth.
Our largest customer Walgreens represented just under 28% of our total revenues in fiscal '14.
Our specialty business finished the year at nearly $20 billion with revenue growth of about 11% led by ASD Besse Medical and ICS.
These 3 businesses accounted for about 90% of the total dollar increase.
Our oncology supply business was essentially flat for the year as expected due to the community oncology environment and also brand-to-generic conversions.
Our adjusted operating income increased a stellar 21% to $1.56 billion.
Our adjusted operating margin finished at 1.30% a decrease of 17 basis points.
This margin was better than what we originally expected and it also included the negative effect of a few basis points from the lower-margin new hepatitis C brand drugs.
EPS.
Our full year adjusted diluted EPS was $3.97 up 24% mostly due to our strong organic operating income growth and very little from share repurchases.
Cash flow.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we made in this area.
We finished well above our revised expectation of $1.2 billion for free cash flow.
The positive impact from a higher generic revenue mix as well as our drug company operations group effectively managing inventory level helped drive outperformance in this area.
And finally share repurchases.
Under our regular share repurchase program we purchased $538 million of stock which was above our original guidance.
Under our special share repurchase program we continue to make steady progress.
This program is used specifically to offset anticipated warrant dilution.
We have repurchased approximately 3.4 million shares or $252 million through September 30.
Combined with our hedging program we've made good progress toward offsetting as much of the expected warrant dilution as is economically feasible.
Now let's turn to fiscal '15 expectations.
Revenues.
We expect consolidated revenue growth in the 7% to 8% range.
We expect higher revenue from our largest customer Walgreens mostly as a result of generic distribution being ramped at a full run rate for our entire fiscal 2015.
Just the incremental generics business will represent about 2% of our growth.
This growth is also expected to come from the following categories: new brand drugs like those that treat hepatitis C; overall script and volume growth from an improving U.S.
economy and a positive contribution from health care reform; and finally continued growth in our specialty business.
Our revenue growth will be somewhat dampened due to a previously disclosed customer loss and meaningful brand-to-generic conversions.
Gross profit.
Our gross profit dollars will clearly be up.
We will have a full year benefit from both Walgreens generics and the procurement joint venture.
We also expect a better generic launch schedule than we saw in fiscal '14.
In terms of key launches we now expect that generic Nexium will be delayed and will now launch in June 2015.
This means we won't have the full 6 months of exclusivity in this fiscal year.
Our working assumption for generic price inflation is that the dollar contribution will be relatively flat in fiscal '15.
Headwinds in the gross profit area include contract renewal certain customer losses and lower growth in specialty due to continued reimbursement pressure and maturing generic oncology drugs and no offsetting new oncology generic launches.
Operating expenses.
We expect year-over-year dollar growth as a percentage to be in the high single digits.
The increase is driven primarily from 3 key areas.
One we will be incurring a full year of direct costs associated with supporting the Walgreens business primarily distribution center labor expense and delivery; two we have expenses directly associated with a few key initiatives like the national distribution center in Columbus Ohio and the startup of our Swiss business and continued investment in our IT infrastructure especially around EDI security and a track and trace system -- these IT expenses are required to scale and support our business going forward; and finally three we have normal run-of-the-business increases such as compensation incentive and health care costs.
The expenses that I highlighted in these first 2 categories full year of Walgreens distribution and the new initiatives account for approximately 60% of the overall dollar operating expense increase.
Operating income.
For fiscal '15 we expect our year-over-year dollar growth to be 8% to 10% driven primarily by the drug company.
Our fiscal '15 growth moderates somewhat by a few items: phasing in of the national distribution center; expenses coming faster than gross profit; fairly high incremental operating expenses associated with our new Swiss business; and lower growth in our specialty business.
Switching to operating margin.
We expect our margin in basis points to be relatively flat to up slightly in fiscal '15.
Our margin will be impacted by the rate of growth of our 2 largest customers; timing of brand-to-generic conversions like Nexium; and the continued ramp of hepatitis C product revenue.
These 3 items can move our margin up or down by several basis points and can make pegging of margin goals difficult.
Interest expense.
Our interest expense is expected to decrease slightly due to a stronger cash position and also refinancing a portion of our debt last year.
Tax rate.
Through our new business initiatives we expect to see our adjusted tax rate decrease to about 37% for the full year.
Share repurchases.
Our guidance assumes $400 million in regular share repurchases.
Importantly with our anticipated share price and expected level of exercises we don't expect our adjusted diluted share count to decrease much just about 1%.
Adjusted EPS.
We expect our fiscal '15 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.36 to $4.50 an increase of 10% to 13%.
We expect our adjusted EPS to be greater in the second half of the fiscal year compared to the first half due to the phasing of generic price appreciation similar to what we've experienced the last 2 years and also the generic launch calendar.
An item of note: our first fiscal quarter typically has the lowest level of brand and generic price appreciation of our 4 quarters.
Switching over to cash flow.
CapEx is expected to be approximately $300 million.
Given the improved cash outlook for ABC we believe this is the right time to further invest in our core drug business and specifically our distribution center network.
About 1/3 of our CapEx spend is slated for distribution center capacity and automation improvement.
As always we expect a good return on these infrastructure investments.
Free cash flow.
We expect to have an excellent year in terms of free cash flow due to higher generic revenues and the fact that generics have beneficial working capital metrics.
Free cash flow will be in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion and it also includes the expected benefit from rightsizing our inventory now that we've reached the full rollout of the Walgreens business.
In addition to the regular share repurchases I highlighted before we also expect to use about $400 million to continue to offset future warrant dilution through our special share repurchase program.
In summary I know that my comments today were longer than usual due to covering the quarter year-end and also '15 guidance so thank you for your attention.
Our commitment: we will continue to make the right investments in our business and allocate our capital thoughtfully to ensure long-term success.
As always we greatly appreciate your interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thanks Tim.
We'll now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please go ahead John.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on some of the comments you made.
I mean the company obviously has been through a lot of positive transition here in the last 18 months.
And now that you've kind of emerged from it as you sit back you look at the cash flow generation and the strength of the balance sheet do you feel like you're at a -- in a position now where you can start to think more strategically? Or do you kind of take a breath and just kind of focus on getting the operations right? I mean how do think about capital deployment from here? Glen thanks for the comments.
I'll start off and then let Tim comment.
I mean obviously we went through a very significant operational hurdle again.
As we pointed out both Tim and I pointed out I think we came through it very strong not only for our Walgreens customers but for all of our customers.
We have more inventory.
I mean in 26 of our -- we have 26 distribution centers -- 23 of them had some level of automation improvement streamlining new equipment coming in.
So we really had significant work to do.
The cash flow came in strong the last couple of quarters.
Our balance sheet is strong.
But again we're doing some $400 million a day in sales so you need to look at it in terms of that context.
But clearly our first prize has always been to find the right type of acquisition.
We're very encouraged by the success of World Courier.
World Courier has also given us a lot of I'd say organizational muscle as we look at dealing with things like exchange control and FCPA the treasury issues the tax issues.
So it's -- I think we really are in a good position.
And we also are very excited about our WBAD and the new AmerisourceBergen Switzerland office.
That really gives us a good foray into global operations.
So definitely we in a way feel like the team is just getting started and we've got lots of significant opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe if I could follow-up with a question for Tim.
I mean appreciate all the detail you gave with respect to fiscal '15.
But within your sort of comments I think you mentioned that the benefit from annualizing the Walgreens generics business on your top line would be about a 2% contribution.
And so when I look within the broader context of your 10% to 13% EPS growth in the guidance is it fair to say that just the annualized benefit of Walgreens probably accounts for about 1/3 of that and the other 2/3 being more the organic growth taking into consideration all the other headwinds and tailwinds you mentioned? Yes.
Thanks Glen.
No I -- we definitely have a benefit next year of ramping up and having the generics at a full run rate.
So again I think the other thing too that you have to consider is that we're going to have that full run rate from the procurement joint venture next year.
So I mean I think it's a combination of things that drive -- I mean I really don't want to parse out the growth.
I mean I think again it's kind of the big 3: having generics having the joint venture and a better generic launch year -- all kind of drive the margin a little bit up and better operating income.
And I guess if I can I just like to go back and talk about your first question a little bit too is -- clearly it's top of mind.
We want to make sure that as our cash improves we have an overhang from the warrants.
And again we'll look opportunistically.
Steve talked about being committed to long-term earnings growth.
That's a big consideration for ABC.
So having those warrants as we get closer to those expected exercise dates we want to make sure we use our cash thoughtfully to offset those -- offset that dilution.
We're committed to that.
And that's from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess a follow-up around one of Glen's questions around the procurement platform.
I guess the first one more quantitative see if I can ask this a different way.
I mean curious if you could share anything more specific Tim on what's factored into guidance from the better purchasing.
It's been over a year now and I know this is an important arrangement big swing factor to numbers.
So I'm curious if you could just give us any more clarity around what the contribution is that's baked in.
And then I guess on the qualitative side there has been some concern in the marketplace that the original synergy expectations from these larger generic purchasing platforms might not actually be playing out in the marketplace as many of the generic manufacturers aren't really able to meet the demand needed to drive the volume-based savings originally thought of.
Just curious if you guys had any updated perspectives on that as well.
Yes.
Bob I'll take the first one since you directed it over here.
Quantitative no I appreciate the question.
Again it's very sensitive.
I mean we're real pleased with where we're at.
We've had progression each quarter in '14 in terms of what we've seen from the procurement joint venture.
We're at a good jumping-off point now going into '15.
Again pretty much in line with what we expected way back when when we kind of announced the deal in terms of savings as a percentage.
So I don't think we want to get too fine on the dollar contribution because of competitive reasons.
Yes.
I mean I'll just say that if you look at some of the changes that have occurred in the manufacturer generic landscape I mean with the big trading partners we have there I mean enormous changes since we announced our transaction.
And again we think that the 3 partners scale up very well to these global multinational companies with increasingly sophisticated supply chain regulatory requirements pricing requirements pressures from austerity programs in different markets.
So we focused at first on generics.
There's no reason -- you look at the caliber of the people that are involved in WBAD and -- from both Alliance Boots and Walgreens side and the people that we are contributing I mean Peyton's experience with commercialization all of these should be assets for the platform.
So we are bullish on where this could be in the short medium and long term.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess just a quick follow-up would be we've seen the retailers face some pressures both from inflation and reimbursement rate pressure.
I'm just curious if there's any impact or any thought around potential changes with your agreement with Walgreens relative to some of the moving pieces in the landscape.
Every customer we are able to look at differently.
We model on overall profitability.
Certainly we think that the reimbursement -- the price increases is more of a reimbursement issue than a procurement issue.
To get the reimbursement tables adjusted quicker in this day and age is certainly a priority.
We have seen a broader price inflation trend.
Obviously we listened to the calls in the last day or 2 and this is a theme that is clearly on top of mind.
We think that it's -- there's some very valid drivers as to why price increases are occurring.
We're expecting -- we had a very good year with price increases this year better than we expected and we're expecting to at least hold steady for next year.
So I would say that's a significant expectation that price increases will continue.
That's from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-up questions first on generic inflation.
So just to clarify Steve Walgreen on their call said that they expect low single-digit inflation.
So how does your comment resonate with theirs? Do you assume a similar level of increases? Well again we really manage 2 big type of generics -- our ProGen formulary which we have obviously formulary control over and that's a lot what our independents and other customer base -- other customer segments including health systems tap into.
We also then hold -- handle our customer generic files.
And that -- certainly Walgreens is foremost in that category very significant contract generic acquirer.
So we sometimes have different contract terms et cetera within ProGen and with the other generic sector.
So I don't think that those 2 statements are mutually exclusive.
We -- and again sometimes you have to look at the detail of these statements.
Is it -- are we talking about the branded environment? Are we talking about the generic environment solely? We do expect that there still is -- the vast majority of products are subject to price deterioration in the generic market.
We believe some 70% to 80% of the products will experience some level of deflation which has been the typical model.
So I think you also have to look at where the fiscal years lie.
We're a September year obviously.
There's some significant difference depending on where people's fiscal years lie measurement periods et cetera.
But Tim I can see you want to answer this question.
Yes.
No I would just add Ricky that what we forecast -- I mean Steve you hit it.
Again what we forecast is specific to us and the manufacturers we use and inventory levels.
We're really not trying to forecast the rate in the market.
I think we'll stay consistent with what we said last quarter is that we're -- for our basket of generics we've seen an increase slightly positive inflation this year versus maybe slightly negative kind of the period before.
So it's changed.
But that's all I would add Steve.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
I mean obviously the cash flow generation guidance is quite impressive.
I think in -- you talked about some inventory management.
Should we assume going forward that this is kind of like a new level in how we model cash flow generation for ABC for the longer term? Or is this just kind of like a 1-year phenomenon? Yes.
No great question Ricky.
I'd tell you we're really proud of our cash -- I mean our cash conversion cycle.
With all the complexity this year in managing through our cash conversion cycle our working -- or kind of our net working capital days only increased 1 day between '14 and '13.
So really really hats off to our drug company.
But I would say in '15 there are probably 2 -- there probably are some items positively impacting that won't repeat.
Again kind of bringing on generics finishing up the Walgreens kind of build and getting to a run rate and then also rightsizing our inventory there's some benefit in there.
But I would say that going forward with a healthy generic mix we expect -- we always expect our free cash flow to be above net income and to increase every year.
And that's from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You just answered it.
Thank you.
And we'll go to Eric Percher with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So thinking back 18 months ago when you announced the agreement I know you talked to being able to maintain your long-term growth target I think 15% over a multiyear period.
And I guess we've seen multiple years now with bringing brand on and generic on from the distribution side and now this year with the ramp of the sourcing benefits.
As you look out is there a further ramp that this agreement continues to drive? Is there a significant ramp from sourcing itself? How do you think about continuing to drive the 15%? I mean there's really -- I mean in Dave Yost's time we'd talk about growing revenue with probably a pretty robust top line growth.
We'd talk about operating margin leverage and we'd talk about capital deployment share buybacks.
Obviously the stock multiple has increased.
So some of those have changed but we're still committed to that sort of a growth range in the long term.
It's certainly how we think about our compensation plans our long-term incentive plans.
And we've been proud of our track record.
If you look at the compound annual growth rate and EPS since 2001 we've really done a great job in that range maybe a couple of points higher.
I think the early years were driven by fee for service and even higher organic growth rates.
We're trying to do some things internationally where the growth rates aren't as high.
But we are focused on the specialty area where you should see higher organic growth rates.
So we've added a lot of complexity to our business but we think that's very consistent with the demands of our stakeholders including manufacturers and providers.
So we're not backing off those hurdles or those targets whichever one you want to use.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you have a lot of tools.
But the tool -- the piece of this that came from the agreement with WBAD Walgreens et cetera may be running its course? Well we -- if you look at our portfolio -- I think when I became CEO and before that for 2 years was President of the drug company we were really missing that big chain segment and we are sincerely proud to have partnered with Walgreens.
It's been a great partnership.
We're looking forward to really the completion of Walgreens Boots Alliance next year.
We think that that's going to be -- it really increased the opportunities and the focus that the 3 of us have together -- I guess it will be the 2 of us have together.
And we are looking forward also to other synergies that we can drive on the brand side on international specialty working together with World Courier.
These opportunities we haven't fully explored yet which we think will be very fruitful in the year ahead -- years ahead.
But this is -- also Walgreens organic growth rates have been a nice boost to our revenues coming in ahead this year of what we expected.
Research Division</strong> And quickly you mentioned that generic inflation will be flat in your assumption.
If you have flat inflation on your book does that mean that the impact to incremental benefits from inflation would be relatively small as compared to when you were going from deflation to inflation? If they were -- if we are -- I guess if the numbers came in higher than we expected there would be a benefit as it did this year.
But I'll let Tim comment.
Yes.
Just Eric I mean we talked about the dollar contribution being essentially flat.
And if it's better it moves us up in the range.
If it's worse but we -- that's why we have a range.
I would just say that we think we're being appropriately right here in terms of our working assumption and it's an area that's always difficult to predict and also to know when it's going to happen.
So we think we're kind of going into this into '15 with the right guidance.
Research Division</strong> So you have to refill that each year? So if you had 5% you get another 5% that simply refills what you saw the prior year? Yes.
Yes.
We'll go to the line of Garen Sarafian with Citi.
Research Division</strong> First just quickly on guidance.
But not surprisingly timing of Nexium launch and generic pricing inflation are 2 of the big swing factors to hit earnings it seems.
So excluding those what are the key variables? Yes.
I would say one of the bigger ones out there that we haven't really talked about we're still in a holding pattern on it's still an active process is the DoD.
We talked about that last quarter.
There should be notification the end of the year.
That's clearly one.
And I would just say the other swing factors would be just some of the hep C and the uptake and having a new drug out there versus the old drug.
Just some of those -- some of the contributions we made in that area too could move us up or down in the range.
Research Division</strong> What's the assumption on DoD in the current guidance then? Well the current guidance is like -- again we have a piece of the contract.
We've factored in that we retain our piece that we have at a lower margin.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just switching gears.
You mentioned health reform initiatives as a positive contributor a couple of times in the prepared remarks.
So could you just elaborate a little bit more as to how you're thinking about health reform and how much weight you're giving it in fiscal '15? We note that there's some 8 million to 9 million maybe as many as 10 million new patients being covered through exchanges and other mechanisms.
That definitely is driving growth.
There could be more on Medicaid programs.
There's some evidence that our independent customers have disproportionate market share there but it's overall good for the market.
Look we -- the new data coming out from the most established reporting companies will show you that the market is very robust.
We've seen more robust top line growth than we've seen before.
However 1 product has been more significant to that growth than probably the patient attrition that we've seen.
So it's -- again this is a great industry to be a part of.
I was participating last week in the international wholesaler federation meeting and the U.S.
market is still the envy of the rest of the world.
This is a wonderful market to have most of our business be resident in.
Yes.
I would just jump in and say that our working assumption is a pretty modest increase.
We always -- when we talk health care reform we always say the economy too because it's hard to really tell what's driving script growth.
I mean it's definitely up.
We're seeing a benefit but it's hard to say what's causing it.
But for '15 in our growth assumption for revenue we probably have 0.5% kind of factored in there excluding those hepatitis C drugs.
We kind of carve those out and do a separate assumption on those.
And we'll go to Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question Tim to start with around the tax rate.
If I do the math it looks like every 100 basis point reduction is about $0.07 and I would assume that based on your commentary some of this is because of moving some of the operations over to Switzerland.
Is there incremental opportunity over the next couple of years to continue to bring that tax rate down? Thanks Lisa.
Yes I would -- let me just comment that we -- as Steve mentioned we're thrilled that Peyton and her family have moved over to start this business.
There is a benefit in our tax rate from that.
But also we're seeing a benefit from not only that but BluePoint our private label is giving us a little bit of an advantage and also World Courier.
But to get to the main point yes I do think it's an area of focus.
It's a pretty big expense for ABC and we're being very thoughtful about how to look at our tax rate going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then thinking about BluePoint.
Can you give us any incremental color around BluePoint? So is it being run out of Switzerland? What are some of the opportunities there? How do you anticipate that that business will grow over the next couple of years? And furthermore are you actually manufacturing the product? Or is this more of a repackaging type of operation? Well it's definitely more of a repackaging relabeling importation demand aggregation.
There's a well-established precedent in the wholesaler market in the U.S.
and we thought this was a great opportunity for some of the x U.S.
suppliers to aggregate demand.
It's been well received in the marketplace good adoption by our customers.
We've really had this in the works for a couple of years but launched this year.
But our repackaging facility is really done out of Ireland and that was planned before.
But certainly having the group in Bern helped coordinate with Peyton and we actually had this in the works before we went into the WBAD partnership.
So it's definitely a growth driver for us and one that we'll carry on focusing on.
Steve do you have some...
Yes.
Thanks everyone for your time.
I know it was an extremely busy day today.
But let me just conclude our discussions for today by really reiterating that ABC is in terrific shape.
Our teamwork and confidence that maybe I haven't touched on enough today because I'm just so proud of where we are as a company our ability to take on new challenges and opportunities I believe has never been higher.
At all levels we thrive on working together as we meet the challenges and opportunities the markets are presenting to us.
We really feel that we're just getting started and you can look forward to great things to come from the AmerisourceBergen team.
Thanks Steve.
And with that we'll turn it back to the operator.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Tim Guttman.
Please go ahead.
Hello.
Actually this is Barbara Brungess and good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's conference call covering our first quarter of fiscal 2015.
I am the Vice President of Corporate Investor Relations for AmerisourceBergen.
And joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Executive Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2014 and other filings.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the Company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everyone.
As we reported this morning in our press release AmerisourceBergen associates delivered excellent financial results in our first quarter of fiscal 2015.
Our revenues increased 15% to $33.6 billion.
Our adjusted diluted earnings per share were up over 42% to $1.14 while we generated a very strong $900 million in operating cash flow.
One of the most gratifying aspects of this quarter’s results is that it was driven by strong performance from virtually every one of our businesses.
The strength of these core business positions and offerings combined with our disciplined capital management gives us the flexibility to continue to expand on knowledge reach and partnership as we make plans to broaden our provider and manufacture service offerings to new market segments.
Earlier in January we signed a definitive agreement to acquire MWI Veterinary Supply a premier animal health distributor with $2.5 billion in cash.
We commenced this tender offer for all outstanding shares of MWI on January 26 and we expect to close the transaction during the March quarter.
As I said when we first announced the deal ABC has delivered significant growth and shareholder value by staying focused on the pharmaceutical supply chain where we have developed unparallel knowledge and expertise and by bring a collaborative philosophy to all of our relationships.
Jim Cleary and his team at MWI will be our deal partners with whom to bold on that foundation and they stand our reach into the growing global animal health sector.
MWI is already well respected for their great success since the company was founded in 1976 and went public in 2005.
But we believe that by combining MWI’s legacy of success and innovation with ABC’s relevant experience in manufacturing and provider services and our global reach we will create a compelling opportunity to launch the next generation of superior animal health products and services.
I am very excited about the future contributions that Jim and his team will make to AmerisourceBergen and about the potential for growth that we see ahead.
Let’s turn now to the performance of AmerisourceBergen in the December quarter.
Overall we are off to a strong start in fiscal 2015 and we see ourselves up well to meet our strategic and updated financial objectives for the full year.
Finally on the momentum as we had as we exited fiscal 2014 our performance in the first quarter was very robust.
Strong revenue growth combined with operating leverage drove exceptional adjusted earnings per share growth and a significant improvement in working capital led to stellar cash flow especially for the December quarter.
Tim will provide further details.
But I want to call out some highlights from our business units.
Last quarter I noted that our individual business units continuously became less distinct from one and other by focusing the efforts on collaboratively meeting the need of suppliers and customers.
Our ability to achieve comprehensive enterprise wide solutions is particularly valuable in a fast changing market and is a key driver of our results.
Many of these solutions are of course in the specialty area with the unique combination of services and expertise we offer helps manufacturers and customers manage the challenges of the fast growing area of the market.
Just the specialty products now permeate nearly every segment of our business discussions about opportunities within the specialty realm are top of mind for virtually all of our customer.
We believe we are the best positioned to maximize the benefits of advanced specialty products of advanced specialty products for manufacturers healthcare providers and the patients they serve.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a strong quarter with revenues up 15% even as we anniversary the first full quarter of the Walgreens brand business.
Overall market growth trends remain quite good and a strong flu season was very helpful to our overall retail and vaccine sales on this.
The December quarter was the first full quarter where we had all of the brand and generic business from Walgreens and we are very pleased to have the distribution contract fully implemented.
Good organic growth overcame the rollover some old business and sales of the new hepatitis C drug has also contributed to ABDC’s revenue growth.
Overall drug pricing trends remain quite favorable and generic sales are strong across all of ABDC’s customer segments.
We are very pleased that our independent pharmacy chains health systems and ultimate side customers all performed well in the quarter.
Our Good Neighbor Pharmacy customers are benefiting from favorable market conditions as well as some ABC specific programs including those that improve independent retail pharmacy’s access to specialty products such as the new hepatitis C drugs and other therapies.
Our diverse customer base helps us ensure the widest patient access possible to both sophisticated new therapies as well as long established products.
And our extensive manufacturer relationships ensures our customers participate in the provision of the full spectrum of pharmaceutical care.
During the quarter we continued to reap the benefits of our long term strategic relationship with Walgreens Boots Alliance in both the distribution to Walgreens stores and the contribution from the sourcing joint venture.
We are very pleased with the progress that JV has made to-date and going forward we will work collaboratively to ensure the value we bring to manufacturers and the programs and services we bring to our customers.
In addition we have made significant progress in our BluePoint private label program and ramping up the activities in ABC Switzerland.
All of these activities are demonstrative of the value that wholesale has bring to the supply chain and of the specific innovations AmerisourceBergen brings to the table.
During the quarter we officially opened our national distribution center in Columbus.
The state of the art facility helps for our logistics and inventory management efficiency for both ABC and our manufacturer partners.
This and other investments we have made and continue to make in our infrastructure enable us to meaningfully enhance our services and strengthen our ability to grow our business over the long-term.
ABSG also had impressive results in the quarter with a number of different factors driving strong sales.
Setting aside the impacts of some manufacturing posed changes on certain oncology products which moves some revenues from drug company to specialty.
ABSG’s revenues were up 17%.
Our physician distribution business performed very well and ASD was particularly strong in the December quarter.
Given my long history with our community oncology business and our confidence in offerings in this area is especially gratifying to report that our community oncology business grew ahead of expectations into December quarter.
This was due to a mix of new business some earlier than expected product increases and an overall increase in volume.
While reimbursement issues persists and sales of practices to help systems continued without a slower rate we are hopefully seeing stabilization on the community oncology market which is a great benefit for overall cancer care.
Oncology treatments will continue to be provided across various healthcare venues and we are very well positioned to ensure that our customers remain in the forefront of the evolution of cancer care.
Our manufacture services businesses also had a strong quarter with both consulting services and World Courier performing very well.
The unrivaled service offerings in this area are of keen interest to both our manufacturer provider customers and a key driver of value as a cost and complexity of medication therapies increase.
The expertise we bring to bear in the regulatory compliance and policy area along with our experience in developing patient adherence programs is a clear differentiator today and an opportunity for growth in the future particularly as buyers some of those begin to come to market.
Our knowledge base combined with the immense scale of our distribution businesses and our increasingly global reach make us the ideal partner for those who want to lead the next evolutionary change in healthcare.
As I have said many times it is an exciting time to be in the pharmaceutical services industry.
Organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market are being driven by better economic condition health reform initiatives successful launches of new brand products and population demographics.
The R&amp;D pipeline is full of innovative products that hold a potential to make great strides across many disease states.
The combination of an advanced therapeutic medicine and expanding access to health care drives growth opportunities and more importantly meaningfully improves patient lives.
Many of the same growth rates hold true for the animal health market as well.
As American age pet ownership is increasing and pets themselves are living longer.
Advantage in veterinary medicine have improved the quality of loss of companion animals and given pet owners far more choices in maintaining pet health.
In addition the increasingly global demand for protein drives demands on a production side of the market.
We have received overwhelmingly positive feedback regarding the transaction and we firmly believe that MWI is a premier distributor in these two areas of business focus and we are very excited to add animal health to our portfolio of services.
Looking ahead to reminder fiscal 2015 we expect the strong trends in overall market growth to continue while trends in certain specific areas will moderate.
Generic inflation was strong in the December quarter but has been modest so far in January.
We also had some brand price increases in December that we had been expecting to see in January particularly in specialty.
As a result we expected that the contribution from generic inflation will be flat in the remaining quarters versus last year and that brand inflation will remain strong.
While we were pleased to see the first version of generic Nexium approved by the FDA there remains a lack of clarity regarding the timing of the launch of the product into the marketplace and they extend to which there will be competition of manufacturers of the generic.
Given these trends in our performance in the December quarter we have raised our guidance for the reminder of the year in a few key areas.
Tim will provide greater detail and in summary on consolidated basis we now expect revenue growth in the range of 10% to 11%.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in the range of 12% to 15%.
Free cash flow generation in the range of $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
As a result of cash being used in product to fund MWI transaction we have reduced the amount of share repurchases we expect to complete in fiscal 2015 and our regular share repurchase program to $200 million but we will complete $400 million of repurchase under the special program as we have previously discussed.
Another noteworthy event for AmerisourceBergen was the January 16 announcement that Ornella Barra has joined our Board.
Ornella is one of the most experienced wholesale executives in our global industry.
Ornella is a pharmacist by profession and has long championed the role of global community pharmacy through the well regarded Alphega Network of Pharmacies.
Ms.
Barra currently serves as Executive Vice President of Walgreens Boots Alliance and President and Chief Executive of Global Wholesale and International retail.
We look forward to Ornella's participation on our Board.
One final word about the December quarter before I handover to Tim.
I am very pleased with our outstanding financial and operation performance we achieved across our entire business.
There are many moving parts in the remainder of fiscal 2015 but I am confident that we will meet our objectives for the year.
Meeting our financial and operational goals is only one dimension of success however.
It is a combination of unmatched execution and bold innovative thinking that really drives long term value.
So I constantly challenge our associates to exceed our customers’ expectations while creatively looking forward to the future.
The strength of our coal business gives us a powerful platform upon which to build and that gives me great confidence that we will continue to make new and watchable contributions to the market face and thereby continue to provide excellent returns to our shareholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
And good morning everyone.
As Steve mentioned we’re off to an excellent start for fiscal ’15.
Consistent with past quarter my remarks this morning will focus on our adjusted results.
Please note that all financial comparisons of the first quarter ended December 2014 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
I have two main topics to cover this morning first I will recap first quarter consolidated and segment performance and second I will cover our revised fiscal ’15 expectations.
With that we can begin our Q1 review.
Revenues were $33.6 billion up 15%.
Our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment continues to drive our revenue growth due to our diverse customer mix and positive trends in the industry.
As a reminder this marks the first quarter that we had the Walgreens generic volume for all stores for the entire quarter.
On an overall basis Walgreens accounted for slightly over half of our 15% revenue growth.
The quarter’s adjusted gross profit increased 24% to $896 million.
The growth was due to the performance in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment driven primarily by better than expected revenue on both brand and generics.
Also we continue to benefit from a strong manufacturer pricing environment.
Operating expenses.
Our total adjusted operating expenses increased 15% to $461 million the expense increase co-related with the large revenue increase in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
Consistent with past quarters the increase in expenses were primarily related to distribution under labor expense delivery cost and depreciation of capital assets to support the business ramp.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $436 million up about $113 million with a very strong 35% growth rate.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.30% up 19 basis points.
Moving below the operating income line interest expense net was about $15 million down about 19% due primarily to the refinancing of debt which we completed last year.
Income taxes our adjusted income tax rate was 37.9% for the current quarter down some from the prior year.
Looking out for the full year we still expect our tax rate to be about 37% driven by growth in our international businesses.
And for the quarter our adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased nearly 43% to $1.14 driven by exceptionally strong organic operating income growth.
Our adjusted diluted share count was 229 million shares down roughly 3%.
This finishes our review of ABC consolidated results and let’s move forward and discuss our segment results starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were about $33 billion up 15% as mentioned earlier by Steve Drug Company led the way with a 15% revenue increase.
Our revenue growth and our core drug business was driven by four items.
One as I mentioned earlier we reached full delivery of all generic drugs to all Walgreens locations for the full quarter.
Two our sales to Walgreens exceeded our expectations especially generics and three we continue to see the revenue benefit from the uptake in hepatitis C drugs.
These drugs accounted for roughly one third of the drug company's total revenue growth and then finally four overall market growths driven by volume and strong pricing.
Our specialty business group and overall revenue increased of about 26%.
As widely reported two manufacturers shifted certain fuse oncology drugs from full line distribution to specialty distribution.
Excluding this shift our specialty business still grew an impressive 17% with growth coming from oral oncology plasma and ophthalmology.
We also had very good growth in our community oncology business driven by positive pricing trends and some new business.
Finally our ICS third-party logistics business also had very good revenue growth due to new business wins and volume growth with existing manufacturer customers.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and specialty that I just provided are before interest segment eliminations consistent with how we have reported this growth rate in past growth.
Moving to gross profit.
The segment’s gross profit was $752 million up $158 million or about 27%.
Drug Company was the driver of the majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of their high revenue growth.
And in both drug and specialty we experienced better than expected brand and generic price appreciation.
The segment did see better than expected gross profit from the late flu season and also the continued growth of our private label program BluePoint.
Operating expenses were $362 million and were up about 18%.
As I mentioned previously the expense increase was primarily due to supporting the segment’s significant volume growth.
As an example our Drug Company shift roughly two times the number of units this quarter compared to last year as a result of being fully ramped now with Walgreens generic volume growth in the Walgreens business and growth from our other customer accounts.
Segment operating income was $390 million and up about 36% driven by the outstanding performance of the Drug Company.
As Steve highlighted we’re also extremely pleased with our specialty business and the fast start they had with an operating income growth rate in the mid-teens driven by several positive trends in our business portfolio.
We can now move to our other segment which includes Consulting Services and World Courier.
In the quarter segment revenues increased $92 million or about 50% to $696 million roughly 60% of the segment’s revenue dollar growth came from TheraCom our distribution business within Consulting.
We did experience a very good growth rate in our core Consulting business in the teens due to the start of several new manufacturer programs and organic growth in existing programs.
World Courier also had solid revenue growth however the revenue growth was somewhat dampened by foreign currency exchange rates.
From an operating income standpoint this segment had operating income of $45 million reflecting growth of 26%.
Consulting and World Courier each contributed about equally to the income growth.
Consulting contributed primarily to top line growth.
World Courier contributed through a combination of top line growth and expense management.
This completes our segment review.
Let me switch and quickly cover our two large GAAP items; warrants and LIFO.
Warrants the fair value of the warrants increased about $600 million to approximately $1.7 billion as of December 31st correlated to the increase in the ABC share price for the same period.
This resulted in a total expense of $371 million for the quarter.
About 80% of this expense is the retroactive adjustment needed to properly report expense through the eight quarters we’ve had the warrants outstanding.
LIFO this quarter we report an expense of $144 million which represents about 25% of our full year estimate.
Our full year LIFO expense was estimated suing two key assumptions.
One price inflation remains at the same levels for both brand and generics as what we experienced last year.
And two we are forecasting a higher inventory balance at yearend due to overall business growth versus our previous year end.
These assumptions are driving the large expected full year LIFO expense.
And we will of course update our assumptions moving forward each quarter.
This wraps up our P&amp;L review.
I’d like to now cover working capital and cash flow items.
This quarter we had terrific free cash flow $840 million.
We are clearly benefiting from the growth in our generic drug volumes which have much better payable terms.
Specifically our DPO or days payable to suppliers improved nearly six days from last year.
Again this reflects a larger mix of our business being generics.
Our free cash flow also benefited from a one-time reduction in the inventory of about $150 million from the closing of our old Florida distribution center.
The next area I’d like to cover is share buybacks.
During the quarter our regular share buybacks were $132 million.
We ended the quarter with $443 million available on our regular share repurchase authorization.
We also purchased the same dollar amount under our special share repurchase program.
And as reminder these shares are specifically designated to offset expected dilutions from the warrants and are not included in our adjusted share count.
We ended the quarter with $266 million available on our special share authorization.
During the quarter we also took steps to improve our warrant hedging position.
We partnered with a bank to increase the ceilings specifically on our 2016 cap calls given the increase in our share price.
As a result we incurred a liability of about $78 million through December 31st.
we finished the program in the January at a total cost of $100 million.
And as a reminder there is no P&amp;L impact in connection with our hedging program.
Now let’s turn to our revised fiscal ’15 expectations.
My initial guidance comments that I will cover this morning exclude the impact from the MWI transaction so you have a better comparable to the guidance we provided back in late October.
At the very end I will make a few comments about the impact to guidance with MWI included.
Revenues based on positive trends in our business and the industry we now expect consolidated revenue growth in the 10% to 11% range.
Gross profit let me comment on two specific items within gross profit.
The first will be generic price appreciation.
As I mentioned earlier generic price inflation was better than expected in our first quarter.
While the trend in the past several quarters is for manufacturers to raise prices in the first month of the quarter so far in January we haven’t seen much activity in this area.
Therefore in nearly four months into our fiscal year we are not changing our full year assumption.
We are confident that our annual expectation will be met which is flat dollars compared to last year.
The second item is generic drug launches.
There has been recent news about generic Nexium entering the market.
At this point there are still many open questions about the launch including when product will be available how quickly the FDA will approve other manufactures who have filed ANDAs the timing of those launches the ability of manufacturers to produce enough product to cover the large market and the impact of potential court actions.
At this point we do not expect the launch of generic Nexium to be as beneficial as we originally expected.
Therefore we have lowered our assumption for the gross profit contribution from this item especially in the second half of the year.
Operating income for fiscal ’15 we expect our year-over-year dollar growth to be 9% to 11% driven by our first quarter performance and higher interest paid four year revenue growth.
However the change in our generic Nexium contribution assumption that I just called out is a partial offset to income growth.
Operating margin we now expect our operating margin to be relative flat in fiscal ’15.
This is due primarily to higher brand drug revenues including the continued growth in hepatitis C drugs.
Adjusted EPS we now expect our fiscal ’15 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.45 to $4.55 which reflects growth of 12% to 15% from last year’s adjusted EPS.
Importantly as you think about our EPS quarterly progression we now expect that our combined adjusted EPS in the first half of the fiscal year will be slightly greater and the combined adjusted EPS in our second half.
Share repurchase our revised guidance of regular share repurchases is $200 million for the full year down from previous guidance due to cash that will be used in conjunction with the MWI closing.
We remain committed to $400 million in special share repurchases for the full year.
Switching to our free cash flow guidance.
With better growth in generic revenues and generics having significantly better working capital metrics we now expect our full year free cash flow to be in the range of $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
As I highlighted assuming that we successfully closed the MWI transaction in the March quarter we will provide more detailed guidance on our April earnings call.
For today’s call we will reiterate that MWI will add an incremental $0.08 to our adjusted EPS spread evenly between our June and September quarters.
This means that our guidance range including the contribution from MWI will be $4.53 to $4.63.
So in summary one quarter doesn’t make a year we have a long way to go but we are off to a great start.
Our commitment is that we will continue to work hard servicing our customers.
We will deploy capital properly and we will make the right decisions to grow our business for the long run.
As always we greatly appreciate your interest in ABC.
Now here is Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call to questions.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow up so we can accommodate as many callers as possible during the time available.
Operator please go ahead.
Thank you [Operator Instructions].
And we’ll go to Eric Coldwell with Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick one very strong quarter congrats on the performance.
I am interested in particular in the comments on the two manufacturers shifting the specialty oncology drugs from broad drug distribution into the specialty segment.
One what was the driver of that? Two did you get any incremental opportunity as that shift in distribution practice moved to your specialty group? And three what was the impact if any on economics? Thanks very much.
I’ll start out and let Tim follow up.
This was not driven by ABC.
It was driven by a manufacturer quality change and of course oncology products have got all high value economic value but also of course value to the patients and many manufacturers I think mark a single distribution point because it gives them very clear insight into inventory levels et cetera inventory turns patient access issues.
So there are various benefits.
Essentially the manufactures that we are talking about are working with many participants in the supply channel and we land up with our very big share of the health systems market which is certainly around the mid-30s.
We land up servicing many our own customer internally and as far as the economics guide up I don’t think we’ll like to comment on economics for individual contracts but Tim I'll let you also respond to Eric’s question.
Yes I would say that we are notified by two manufactures they want to better control the product and the supply chain and again this product was going to health systems continues to primarily go to health systems and really no change in the economics.
We’ll go to the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Can you help us understand the dynamics in the hep C a little bit better? I know you talked about the fact that there was a sequential improvement in the volume contribution that you saw.
Maybe if you can give us some color on what percent of topline growth in the quarter is coming from hep C; and then how do you think about the contribution from hep C for the remainder of the year? Are you agnostic between the two manufacturers Gilead and AbbVie? And just how do you think about the market given that obviously the last 12 months have been very strong for you on that front? Hep C definitely contributed to our topline I think I called out in our segment for drug company drug grew by 15% hep C was about 5%.
I would say that we also saw growth sequentially between last quarter and this quarter.
And the other comment I would make is remember that really last year and fiscal year we really saw hep C come out the second half of our year.
So we still have this quarter and the next quarter will get a bigger benefit compared to last year for that hep C impact and then we’ll start to anniversary.
We’ve had a number of questions based on this just the way that manufacturers contract with PBM and payers doesn’t really reflect our economics at all it doesn’t go through the charge backed system it’s really have quarterly rebate mechanism.
So obviously we provide datas to different parties that might measure who's to spend in what but we are not really effected by the economics.
The economics on the bar side between the various manufactures are pretty similar probably within few basis points of each.
So really we are agonistic but it’s -- again it’s just a great boon to our customers in a strong participation by community pharmacy ABC is very strong in the ultimate care segment where a lot of these products are being dispensed and patients are accessing the medication.
So it’s been a great trend for our whole industry and we couldn’t be more proud of our role in helping eliminate what is serious health care issue.
It’s been a great product for everybody.
Great set of products I should say.
Then just one follow-up.
Obviously you've reported very strong gross margin year-over-year trends and also on the operating margin.
So can you just comment? Are you starting to see a benefit from joint-venture economics spilling to the rest of your core book? Well I think we’ve had it’s almost again this quarter in March it will be two years since we made our announcement.
And we do think it’s been quite a historic announcement specifically for ABC but indeed for our whole industry.
And it’s really enabled us to collaborate and frankly just having Walgreens as a customer and having that anchor tenant has been just a good benefit to ABC that improves our scale and what we've tried to do and we are very very serious about this is we really want the relationship to benefit all of our customers and I think we’ve seen that that all of our customers would have just more inventory available our transportation allowance for example have greatly improved because we’re getting out more orders so that benefits all of our customers.
And we certainly have the system scale and the operational scale to manage this contract and take excellent care of all of our customers.
So it’s been a great benefit and on the manufacture side I think obviously they’ve been a lot of changes in the industry.
But overall I think everyone is doing very well and some of the goals that we identified which is about having longer term strategic relationships with the group in burn on the WBAD side have done a fantastic job.
And we’re doing very well as is the whole industry doing well.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey Steve.
One of your customers has hinted at its ability to manage the oncology cost trend.
How does this affect you? Are you a partner in this effort or indifferent to the effort or are you monitoring the effort? We are very involved with their physician administration of oncology drugs that we still have strong market share there.
It’s a business that I noted how particularly personally proud I was to see the growth in this quarter and we hope it will continue.
It did surprise us.
It was a bit stronger than we expected as both Tim and I pointed out.
So what we do in community oncology is try help our customers really have the data tools and have the contracting tools so that they can have really good relationships with payers and other interested parties like PBMs.
So everyone really understands how the treatment is being conducted that it's being conducted at the highest of standards.
And I’ve don’t think that anything that our customers are doing or the way we're contracting with manufacturers is adversarial to their physician.
I think it’s really all about excellent customer and patient care and we are riding the forefront of that with on an oncology supply business.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go to line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the questions.
Just wanted to try to put this quarter a little bit more in context relative to the rest of the year both on the revenue and on the EBIT outlook side.
It does look like obviously we're calling for a deceleration in topline growth; and if I look at EBIT growth it looks like you guys grew about 35% in the quarter.
I know you raised the growth for the year to 9% to 11% but still obviously implying a fairly big deceleration.
Could you maybe just in big buckets help us understand how you see the year playing out? What are the specific areas that we should anticipate to slow down both on the topline and then also within the EBIT contribution? I would say -- again I would say that we raised our midpoint of our guidance about $0.07 so we’re feeling good about the year.
There is still some moving parts and some complexity.
Clearly a big swing factor is generic inflation.
We have to determine some of it seems to be pulled forward into Q1 so we need a little bit more time to assess that for the balance of the year.
And I would say the other big swing factor for us too is just generic Nexium.
And we were pretty encouraged that that was going to be a really big positive side such a big brand drug that we thought it’s going to be a big positive in the second half.
We do slow down a bit we start to anniversary more of that Walgreens business revenue the second half of the year and also the WBAD contribution we start to anniversary that the second half of the year.
That’s why I think a little bit of my discussion of guidance we think will be a little bit heavier weighted to the first half than the second half.
We also implement the new DoD contract so the full change in the pricing there.
And we had a very strong Q3 and Q4 of our fiscal year ’14 with generic price increases.
So the comps are a lot harder because we were again we never quite sure what quarters is going to come in.
But we’re confident in our full year outlook.
Steve that’s a great point the last two years to remind everybody we’ve been heavily we were backend loaded on generic price appreciation in the June-September quarters.
Again got off to a good start in December still leaving more time to assess how that’s going to play out for the balance of the year.
And at what quarters we get the benefit.
Make sense thanks so much.
And we’ll go to Garen Sarafian with Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
First is on community oncology.
This business seems to be making a key shift.
So first to better frame the significance how big is this within overall oncology which I thought was about one-third of Specialty? Then second part of that question is you mentioned new business and uptick in volumes.
Can you just elaborate on both? Where is this new business coming from? And is this uptick in volume perhaps due to buying ahead of a price increase? Or is this going to be more sustainable we can expect for the rest of the year? Again it was slightly stronger than we expected.
We don’t think it was really driven much by price increases or anything at that time we did see volumes.
Clearly I think a lot of the practices that are going to still have sold although when we say that on our monthly business review is a trend of selling over there I said no well we still lost one or two customers but it’s not where it was.
So I think with the impacts of the ASP change and sequestration the market's probably stabilized.
Those who are going to sell or those who were going to merge with another larger practice in the area may have done that.
We didn’t have any Investor Day in December but oncology business we have the oncology supply and ION business which is a big part of specialty.
But even within ASP for example which is primarily known for distribution to hospitals is a big oncology segment because they do a lot of the oral oncology programs to ultimate care mail order specialty pharmacies.
So its complex but oncology permeates not only our specialty business but more and more of our health systems distribution business and also our manufacturer services business so much of it in the reimbursement and patient programs business even the World Courier clinical trial so much of it is oncology.
So we've always been proud of the oncology franchise AmerisourceBergen has and it’s getting hard and harder to put it into discrete buckets it truly is a business that permeates the whole of AmerisourceBergen movement.
Tim I don’t know if you want to add anything to that? Steve I would just say that it was a pleasant surprise to have some good top-line growth and better than what we expected combination of pricing trends in the market and volumes increasing with existing customers and a couple of wins.
So equally across those three translated to good growth and on community oncology.
So we are thrilled.
Okay fair enough.
A follow-up maybe a bigger-picture question on selling generics.
Now that you are approaching two years into being a part of the purchasing alliance and more recently onboarding Walgreens generics business that might be impacting -- or has impacted your volume pricing tiers.
Do you now have the full lowest-cost generic pricing assumptions baked into your bid? So I guess in other words with your new pricing are you able to demonstrate savings on a per-unit basis to your entire book today? Or is it still more of perhaps on an all-in basis including carrying costs warehousing so on and so forth? I should decide going back to the question before we looks at all of our retail customers we are doing more specialty including oncology drugs but also we talked earlier about the hepatitis drugs.
So again I think the generic profile we have it’s worth mentioning we have our other generic portfolio where we service contracts on behalf of our customers and this is important business for us and the largest player in thereby far is Walgreens and then we have our PRO Gen formulary which contracts with WBAD.
But our goal is to have competitive pricing everyday but also make sure that there is continuity of supply because again if there any products that our customers and ultimately their patients are going to access this is very debilitating to patient care.
So we focus both on price and on quality and I think ABC does a great job.
I can tell you we are adding more and more resources into this kind of business intelligence area to make sure that we have price and quality that our customers are demanding.
So I don’t have a perfect answer for you.
I'll just would tell you that that always is a great fascination to me.
I think that’s a right word how dynamic the generic business is.
The pricing ins and outs changes what goes on now with patents is becoming more and more obtuse.
Nexium is another great example of how difficult this has been to forecast.
So I just would say it’s a very dynamic market.
I think our customers are giving us good adherence we are getting good compliance.
It can always be better we are not happy; we'd like it to be even higher.
This is something that we pay attention to not on a daily basis virtually on a daily basis it is Tim's favorite area.
I think he is involved with the generic cargo all the time.
So this is something that is a great fascination and I think it’s a very strong area for ABC and it’s probably one of the key areas of opportunity but also where we've done very well with the partnership with Walgreens Boots Alliance.
We will go to Eric Percher with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
A question on the Walgreens relationship now that you've got the volume on you're seeing benefits we've got Ornella on the Board.
I am curious to hear what the next set of initiatives look like.
I know it's been about a year since you rolled out the latest iteration of the Good Neighbor Pharmacy and at that point you were talking about leveraging Walgreens' expertise.
I have to imagine that within Specialty given their specialty pharmacy and the international reach that must be of interest.
I'd also be interested on BluePoint and Almus and whether there is any cross-pollination in the books of business? Thanks Eric your [indiscernible] Larry's proud of the question.
But we really are pleased that the Walgreens Boots Alliance merger is complete obviously that was just done at the end of last month.
Since then we've had a good redemption of dialogue with Walgreens Boot Alliance at the top-level because we -- obviously they had a lot going on the last that two quarters or three quarters.
So we are very positive about the opportunities.
I think Ornella and I have served on IPW Board for many years together.
She is extremely experienced.
Alphega has over the 7 000 community pharmacy members.
So our Good Neighbor Pharmacy is about 4 500 we think it is an opportunity on contracting we think that private label Almus is something we are working hard on.
You would expect that we should have more clarity over the next couple of quarters but it’s a great passion for Ornella it’s a great passion for ABC and we are really proud of how well BluePoint has done and I think it’s paved the way for a stronger private label offering for the combine family of companies as we go get our market position.
Tim anything you’d add.
No I just think that probably first on the list as you mentioned Steve is looking at private label getting another choice to our customer goods a good generic product offering.
And I think that’s probably where we’ll focus over the next few months.
Are there specific areas? I know early on injectables was mentioned with BluePoint Labs.
So are there areas where BluePoint is going to be quite strong and you look to leverage Almus? How do you see them working next to each other? Well I think with U.S private label products there is also -- we want to make sure that there is a need in the market for that.
I don’t think the intention is they were meant to be a comprehensive portfolio products that a lot of our manufacturer partners have is typically during mature products injectables is an area of interest obviously if you have institutional customers that's much more of an area of focus.
So we do see that the experience that we’ve gained from BluePoint and the sourcing in Ireland and the global relationships in fact our new AmerisourceBergen Switzerland office this is an area of great promise.
And also Walgreens has a strong specialty presence so we think and our health systems business so this is a natural area for us.
Other areas we could look at is three 3PL.
Tim highlighted earlier the success of ICS.
There certainly are comparable offerings on the lines wholesale side which seems there could be a much strong bond there and a much stronger offering which we have worked on.
And in fact there have been a couple of manufacturers that we made proposals to on joint servicing.
So we look forward to more of those type of opportunities.
Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Steve I had a bigger-picture question.
You had mentioned earlier that the overall market growth has been stronger than expected.
Can you just give us an indication as to where you are seeing the US pharmaceutical market growth rates today? I do think it just seems like there is some pick up from the economy.
I think just as people get covered more it’s really really hard to diagnosis exactly.
But we’ve talked I think just a couple of weeks at your conference I said one to two maybe its 2% to 3% overall growth rate and pick up from an affordable pay as well as the economy and just greater coverage.
And then the hepatitis C drugs have been huge.
I mean they've probably added 3% to 4% and we don’t see at least based on the last quarter an adoption of Elisio and the new therapies that we just go and see it backing off it’s very strong segment for us and our customers.
And I met one of our customers recently and they said to me I said what can we do to better job they said we need more credit for our stores.
Because they’re doing more and hep C patients and you get a couple of hep C patients and it totally changes the dynamics.
The market is robust.
I think we go mainly off the IMS forecast so I forget what exactly the latest forecast they have for this year is but it's pretty healthy out there.
Frankly Lisa just not to change gears on you but we are very interested in development internationally particularly our specialty franchise and we’re seeing some progress in Brazil with our specialty JV although the problems in the Brazilian overall retail market and economy are well noted.
But it’s just one of the great things about MWI is how strong the U.S business is it’s such a good mix there and we see such strong trends in the U.S based market.
So although we liked the international development opportunity that's another opportunity we liked about MWIs.
How strong they are leveraged to the U.S health market.
Then my second follow-up question you mentioned biosimilars and the opportunities for AmerisourceBergen as it relates to biosimilars.
Can you talk about Steve what you would expect the relationships to look like? Would you expect early type of partnerships signed with new biosimilars coming to market? And what are the services that you think Amerisource will provide? And do you anticipate that will have more limited type distribution? Where you talked for example with oncology that the manufacturers really want to control the channel; would you expect it to be similar to that in biosimilars? Yes it’s a great question and thank you for bringing this up.
We think that it’s going to be great for patients and physician choice.
We think the pricing for biosimilars should be such that you are not going to have jailbreak type events I think Tim referred to Nexium.
So you'd see a few really really well credential well capitalized manufacturers.
And again these products are being successfully distributed dispensed in Europe.
So we are going to be working with companies that we are very used to working with the top four or five global manufacturers that are used to buying services from AmerisourceBergen and from our type or trade.
And then a lot of the key products will be physician administered products.
So this is an area of strength for us.
We know how to work on the pricing issues on the market acceptance issues on the contracting issues on the reimbursement issues.
This is -- I was out in Washington a couple of weeks ago.
It’s a question we’re getting asked our regulators a lot more so.
We think that the pricing environment will be favorable for the type of services that AmerisourceBergen offers to manufacturers and also it will be of interest to our customers and I think they will be interested in extending the options for patients care.
Of course we also want to work with existing manufacturers.
So we think that overall neutrality and greater access and choices is always a benefit to the market.
We’ll go to John Ransom with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Yes you guys have been busy over the last five years it comes to mind.
Would you mind just making sure that we grasp all this? Just resetting your comments on Nexium and why you -- even though it's probably going to launch earlier why you are less optimistic about the contribution.
Is it the fact that it's not exclusive? Or is there something else that we might be missing there? Thanks John it’s Tim thanks for the question it’s an important one.
It’s significant brand drug and we had it factored into our plan.
As you know it's a fairly large contributor this year in ’15 but you’re absolutely right economics are better when it’s exclusive and that was our working assumption when we built our plan and when we gave guidance earlier in the year.
As Steve mentioned he used that phrase jailbreak I mean there's been some recent news about one manufacturer potentially coming to market but there seems to be several kind of in the queue that maybe right after them.
And usually history shows us when there are several too many manufacturers the margin falls a lot faster.
So that’s why we called it out and it’s a little bit of a headwind for us in the second half.
Also we [Technical Difficulty] the news on Monday afternoon so right as we were busy getting ready for this call and we were doing our first rehearsal so the top of the timing -- but I don’t think we would have seen anything different because there is no definitive information out there very important product for us and most of the brand sales are very important particularly to one of our largest customer.
So they’ll have an impact on our brand sales as well.
And just one other -- I know how you guys are talking about individual drugs.
So on that theme could you just talk a little bit more specifically about -- we talked about biosimilars in particular.
But is the biosimilar for the anemia products is that -- do you have that in your model as making any material contribution this year? Or if so how do you think about it -- not this year I'm sorry but how do you think about the biosimilars for particularly your dialysis franchise and your oncology franchise? Are those likely to be needle-movers in your opinion? In oncology we’ll probably have better economics again because of the services that we provide.
Dialysis we’ve got two extremely large -- two large customers that make a lot of the on-formulary decisions.
But we’d expect to work within whatever their formulary charges are.
The first Neupogen the first biosimilar we will -- it is a product that we distributed overall about $1 billion product and probably ABC has more than a third share of that.
And I am not quite sure exactly how it falls into community oncology business.
But we do have fairly significant contributions expected from it because we expect that there will be an interest from our physician customers but nothing needle moving just not a big enough product.
Okay thanks very much.
Thanks John.
Well time for one more question please.
And we’ll go to Ross Muken with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
So just again on -- I just got a bunch of questions before in my inbox on the generic inflation assumption.
I think the challenge here is just that that timing aspect continues to be pretty difficult to predict.
But I guess as you made your commentary around the rest of the year there is nothing in the way that you are seeing things from manufacturers changing; this is just a more a view that -- you had an assumption about what the year would look like.
We've already gotten off maybe a slightly better start and so you're being conservative in assuming it flat-lines for the remainder.
Is there something maybe you're actually seeing in the market? Or is it one of the specific comps? We did have a very active I think calendar Q2 last year.
I'm just trying to put all of that in context.
So we did get off to a good start in a quarter that’s traditionally low but then we came to a little bit of a screeching halt here in January with not much activity.
So we’re a little concerned about what the March calendar will bear.
And again with some of that pull forward into December we don’t know we just need more time to assess.
So I think we’re still optimistic about the year in total as what we’ve communicated in the past the total contribution.
And I think we just need more time to assess.
Steve do you have any closing comments.
So just thank you for your attention and really great questions today.
That really wraps up our Q1 call.
This was certainly a quarter with all of our core themes of knowledge reach and partnership translated into strong strategic and financial performance.
We are very enthusiastic about our business and we look forward to working hard to continue to enhance the value we provide to all of our stakeholders.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve and before we go I just want to highlight some conferences we will be attending.
We will be at the Leerink Healthcare Conference in New York on February 11 The RBC Healthcare Conference also New York on February 24 the Raymond James Institutional Investor Conference in Orlando on March 3rd and The Barclays Healthcare Conference in Miami on March 12.
Thank you for your attention now I will turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 01’ O’clock PM today running through February 4th midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T system by dialing 1320 365 3844 and access code 350 338.
Those numbers again 1320 365 3844 and access code 350 338.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And also as a reminder today's teleconference is being recorded.
And at this time I'll turn the conference call over to your host Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our second quarter of fiscal 2015.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Executive Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2014 and other filings.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by telephone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everyone.
As we reported this morning in our press release AmerisourceBergen associates delivered outstanding financial results in our second quarter of fiscal 2015.
Our revenues increased 15% to $32.7 billion.
Our adjusted diluted earnings per share were up over 36% to $1.45 while we generated a very strong $700 million in operating cash flow.
In addition to the excellent financial and operating performance we also made important progress against our strategic objectives as we closed of acquisition of MWI Veterinary Supply and we extended our contract with our large PBM customer for an additional year.
The strength of our core business combined with our disciplined capital management gives us the flexibility to continue to expand our knowledge reach and partnership as we broaden our provider and manufacturer service offerings to new market segments and continue to drive innovation across the pharmaceutical supply channel.
We've had an exceptional first half of fiscal 2015 and we are very well positioned to meet our increased expectations for the full year.
Let's turn now to the performance of AmerisourceBergen in the March quarter.
Holding on to momentum we had coming out of our first quarter our performance in the second quarter was very robust.
Strong revenue growth combined with operating leverage drove exceptional adjusted earnings per share growth and continuing improvement in working capital led to very strong cash flow.
Tim will provide further details but I want to call out some highlights from our business units.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a strong quarter with revenues up 15% even as we continued to anniversary the Walgreens brand business and some of the generic business.
Good organic growth rates overcame the roll-off of some old business and sales of the new hepatitis C drugs also contributed to ABDC's revenue growth.
Overall drug pricing trends remain favorable and generic sales are strong across all of ABDC's customer segments.
We are very pleased that our independent pharmacy chains health system and alternate site customers all performed well in the quarter.
Our diverse customer base helps us to ensure the widest patient access possible to both sophisticated new therapies as well as long-established products.
And our extensive manufacturer relationships help ensure our customers participate in the provision of the full spectrum of pharmaceutical care.
This footprint is a tremendous strategic and tactical value both for those launching new products and for those providing daily care to patients.
To have a trusted partner who has a key role in improving patient access to pharmaceuticals is critical in a health care system that is rapidly evolving with each passing day.
And having a partner who works collaboratively to maximize efficiency and reach is essential in a market with increasing demand and decreasing resources.
Our long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens Boots Alliance is progressing very well.
Sales of brand and generic products to Walgreens stores are growing faster than expected and we are very pleased with the economic contributions from the sourcing JV.
Our relationship evolves along with the markets we both serve and we are continuously working collaboratively to enhance the value we bring to manufacturers and the programs and services we bring to our customers.
On the international front in our drug distribution business our BluePoint private label program is performing well and we achieved an important milestone this quarter as we launched our first generic injectable product under the BluePoint label.
Activities in ABC Switzerland are well under way and we -- and are beginning to contribute value to both ABC and to the manufacturers we serve.
ABC Switzerland functions as an intermediary for all types of pharmaceutical manufacturers managing strategic relationships and fostering specific new value-added activities.
It provides enhanced data analytics and market intelligence to assist manufacturers with their supply chain effectiveness and serves as a platform to manage and grow PROGenerics our proprietary generics formulary and other global generic programs.
Moreover the location and timezone of ABC Switzerland facilitates coordination and activity with our partners at WBAD.
We are very pleased with the progress we have made as we have expanded our international presence while improving the services we offer our partners.
In the U.S.
we continue to ramp activity at our National Distribution Center in Columbus.
We have more than doubled the volume going through the facility during the March quarter and we will continue to add additional manufacturers to its programs over the remainder of the fiscal year.
All of these activities are great examples of new efficiencies and innovations that wholesalers bring to the supply chain and of the specific value AmerisourceBergen brings to the table.
ABSG also had impressive results in the quarter with a number of different factors driving strong sales.
Setting aside the impact of some manufacturing process changes on certain oncology products which moves some revenues from drug company to specialty ABSG revenues were up 16%.
Our physician distribution business performed very well and ASP was again particularly strong in the March quarter.
Our community oncology business performed well in the March quarter due to a mix of new business some brand oncology product price increases and an overall increase in volume.
While reimbursement issues persist we are very pleased that the community oncology market stabilized which we believe is a great benefit for overall cancer care.
Oncology care will continue to be provided across various health care venues and we are very well positioned to ensure that our customers remain at the forefront of cancer care.
I have also noted that our individual business units increasingly become less distinct from one another while focusing their efforts on collaboratively meeting the needs of suppliers and customers.
Our leadership team is focused on achieving enterprise-wide solutions that will impact our customers and enhance our competitive position.
Nowhere is this more evident than in the specialty area where the unique combination of services and expertise we offer helps manufacturers and health care providers manage the opportunity and challenges of this dynamic segment of the market.
We have spent virtually decades carefully developing our portfolio of specialty offerings and building up the capabilities necessary to handle complex products with special needs.
We extend well beyond sophisticated logistics and into the distinct requirements for specific disease states and unique classes of products.
We definitely meet the needs of physicians clinics and health systems and we have pioneered the development of commercialization and reimbursement consulting services and patient access and adherence programs.
All of the work we have done and investments we have made in our facilities our people and our technology has been done in an effort to collaboratively meet the needs of biotech innovators established pharmaceutical companies and of physician and other providers who administer these life-changing therapies which positively impacts the lives of the patients we all ultimately serve.
Whether we are dealing with a new brand of chemical or biological product a generic version of a mature therapy or a promising growth area such as biosimilars AmerisourceBergen has the unique expertise and the right portfolio required to help ensure the widest market for a product the greatest patient access and the most varied support services all conducted in an extremely efficient manner that generates tremendous value for all stakeholders.
As consolidation and the economic realities of health reform drive even more focus on the specialty product segment I've never felt more confident that AmerisourceBergen is the best positioned partner for our various stakeholders to maximize the benefits of advanced specialty products.
Now let me say a few words about biosimilars specifically which are understandably generating a great deal of attention.
We believe that the introduction of biosimilars to U.S.
market will give us a tremendous opportunity to further demonstrate our strengths in these areas.
While we cannot be certain of the timing of biosimilar introductions and many other questions still remain regarding the pricing of products the degree of substitutability and the specific mechanisms of reimbursement we are looking forward to working with our partners to ensure that patients will be the ultimate beneficiary of the introduction of biosimilars.
We have the widest access possible to these products.
The majority of the benefits from biosimilars are still largely a ways off but we are excited about the opportunity to demonstrate the value we can bring to this new category of products.
As we look ahead we are thrilled to extend the distribution and specialty expertise we have accumulated into the animal health space.
As I mentioned earlier we closed the MWI transaction in late February and we are pleased officially welcome Jim Cleary Mary Pat Thompson and the rest of the MWI team to AmerisourceBergen.
Jim is now a member of my executive lead team and the integration is off to a terrific start.
Our results in this quarter include about 1 month of MWI's results which were ahead of our expectations.
We remain quite confident that MWI will continue to deliver excellent performance and that we will meet our targets for synergy capture as planned.
MWI's results are now reported under our Other segment along with our Consulting business and World Courier.
Coincidentally today marks the third year anniversary since we closed our World Courier transaction.
World Courier has helped us think globally and we have together exceeded so many of the integration and strategic goals we laid out in our business case.
Congratulations to all the associates at World Courier on their third anniversary of joining AmerisourceBergen.
All the manufacturer services businesses together had a solid March quarter.
The expertise we bring to bear in the regulatory compliance and policy areas our increasingly global reach and our experience in developing patient access and adherence program is a differentiator for AmerisourceBergen today and an opportunity for growth in the future particularly as biosimilars begin to come to market.
It is a great time to be in the pharmaceutical services industry.
Organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market are being driven by better economic conditions health reform initiatives successful launches of new brand products and population demographics.
The combination of a pipeline full of innovative products and expanding access to health care drives meaningful improvement in patients' lives and growth opportunities across the pharmaceutical supply channel.
As we have previously discussed many of these same growth trends hold true for the animal health market as well.
Advances in veterinary medicine have improved the quality of life of companion animals and given pet owners far more choices in maintaining their health.
As Americans age pet ownership is increasing and pets themselves are living longer thanks to improvements in pharmaceutical care and advanced procedures that enhance the lives of pets.
In addition the increasing global demand for food drives the production side of the market and creates opportunities to extend the expertise MWI has garnered in the U.S.
into developing global markets.
Looking ahead to the second half of fiscal 2015 we expect the strong trends in overall market growth to continue while trends in certain specific areas will moderate.
Our year-over-year comparisons are much more difficult in the next 2 quarters while our underlying business trends remain strong.
For example as we progress through the remainder of the year we will gradually begin to fully anniversary the benefits from the Walgreens generic business and the contributions from the sourcing joint venture.
In addition we need a substantial amount of generic inflation in the next 2 quarters just to match what we experienced in the prior year.
Brand inflation has been quite strong in the first 2 quarters of fiscal 2015 and we are seeing some brand price increases on specialty products that likely won't recur in the second half of the year.
While we were pleased to see the first version of generic Nexium launch in the March quarter there remains only one generic supplier.
So the economic value of the product for ABC is not optimal.
Given these trends our performance in the March quarter and the addition of MWI we have raised our guidance for the remainder of the year.
Tim will provide greater detail.
But in summary and on a consolidated basis we now expect revenue growth in the range of 12% to 13% adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in the range of 22% to 25% and free cash flow generation in the range of $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
As we reported in our press release this morning our board has authorized a new $1 billion special share repurchase program designed to further offset the potential dilution from the future exercise of the warrants that were issued to Walgreens Boots Alliance.
As we approach the exercise dates on these warrants we will continue to evaluate our efforts to offset the dilutive impact of exercise and explore a variety of approaches to offset the dilutive impact of exercises -- I beg your pardon and explore a variety of approaches to achieve our desired outcome including through possible M&amp;A.
In addition to activity under the special program we continue to expect to repurchase $200 million under our normal repurchase program.
I'm very pleased with the outstanding financial and operating performance we achieved across our entire business in the first half of fiscal 2015.
While there are many moving parts in the remainder of the year I'm confident that we will meet our financial and operational objectives for the year.
As I said last quarter generating strong business results requires more than meeting financial and operating goals.
True value creation results from stellar execution innovative thinking and the bold implementation of new ideas.
I constantly challenge our associates to exceed our customers' expectations by partnering with them to find creative new ways to meet current and future challenges.
The tremendous strength of our now expanded core business gives us a powerful platform upon which to build and to make vital contributions to the health and well-being of hundreds of thousands of human and animal customers and by so doing continue to provide excellent returns to our stakeholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Consistent with past quarters my remarks will focus primarily on our adjusted results.
Let me point out that all financial comparisons are for our second fiscal quarter ended March 2015 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
I have 3 topics to cover this morning.
First I will recap consolidated and segment P&amp;L performance.
I will also cover our consolidated cash flow highlights.
As Steve mentioned this is our first period that our results include MWI which essentially means one month of their activity.
The second topic I will spend a few minutes covering our warrant hedging progress to date.
And the last topic I will cover our revised fiscal '15 expectations.
So with that we can begin our Q2 review.
Revenues were $32.7 billion up nearly 15%.
On an overall basis Walgreens accounted for just under half of that revenue growth.
This is our second quarter of having all of this business meaning their brand and generic volumes for the entire quarter.
So a majority of this customer growth is due to the year-over-year ramping of the business.
I should highlight that the addition of MWI contributed about 1% to our overall growth rate.
The quarter's adjusted gross profit increased 25% to just over $1 billion.
The strong growth was due to the performance in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment driven primarily by better-than-expected revenue growth especially generics.
Operating expenses.
Our total adjusted operating expenses increased about 18% to approximately $490 million.
Excluding MWI our operating expense growth would have been 11% and roughly 2% of this growth was related to compensation accruals needed due to our year-to-date performance versus our internal plan.
Consistent with past quarters the remaining expense growth relates to higher overall business volumes and IT expenses.
Operating income.
Our adjusted operating income was $553 million up about $136 million or a very strong 33% growth rate.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.69% up 23 basis points.
Moving below the operating income line.
Interest expense net was about $21 million and included $5.5 million of interest and fee associated with the MWI financing for roughly 5 weeks in the quarter.
Income taxes.
Our adjusted income tax rate was 35.7% for the current quarter down from the prior year.
Growth in World Courier BluePoint private label and now our Switzerland manufacturer services business is causing a change in our U.S.-to-international income mix and is consequently lowering our consolidated tax rate.
For the full year we expect our tax rate to be between 36% and 37%.
For the quarter our adjusted EPS from continuing operations increased nearly 37% to $1.45 driven by exceptionally strong organic operating income growth.
Our adjusted diluted share count was about 230.4 million shares down just under 2%.
Let's move forward and discuss our segment results starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were $31.8 billion up 14%.
As mentioned earlier by Steve Drug Companies led the way with a 13% revenue increase.
Our revenue growth in our core drug business was driven by 3 items: market growth -- one market growth continues to be good driven by volume strong pricing and the new hepatitis C drugs; two our sales to our largest customer exceeded our expectations; and three as mentioned before we haven't anniversary-ed the full implementation of the Walgreens contract yet so we continue to realize this revenue benefit.
In terms of mix Drug Company's total generic revenues increased nearly 50% year-over-year in dollars.
Our specialty business group had an overall revenue increase of about 25%.
And similar to last quarter adjusting for the shift in certain oncology revenues on a comparable basis our specialty business grew an impressive 16% with growth coming from oral oncology plasma and ophthalmology.
We continue to see solid growth in our community oncology business with a percentage growth rate in the high single digits.
And finally our ICS third-party logistics business also had very good revenue growth contributing about 1/3 of the 16% comparable growth rate due to new business wins and increased volumes.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and specialty that I just provided are before intrasegment eliminations consistent with how we've reported these growth rates in past quarters.
Moving to gross profit.
The segment's gross profit was $849 million up about 22%.
Drug Company was the driver of a majority of the segment gross profit increase as a result of their high revenue growth and as I've called out especially due to higher generic revenues.
In terms of total segment price appreciation we ended the quarter higher than we expected in terms of dollar contribution.
We were better than expected in the contribution for brand inflation and this more than offset being slightly lower on the benefit from generic inflation.
Operating expenses were $361 million and were up about 12%.
As I mentioned previously the expense increase was primarily due to supporting this segment's significant volume growth.
OpEx also includes the additional incentive compensation accruals primarily related to strong performance of the 2 businesses in this segment.
Segment operating income was $489 million and up about 31% driven by the outstanding performance of the Drug Company.
As Steve highlighted we're also extremely pleased with our specialty business with an operating income growth rate in the high teens driven by several positive trends in our business portfolio.
We can now move to our Other segment which includes Consulting Services World Courier and beginning in this quarter MWI.
In the quarter total segment revenues were $986 million up 72%.
Excluding the impact of MWI the revenue growth would have been slightly less than 20% with most of this coming from our Consulting business and specifically the TheraCom distribution business.
MWI had a very good revenue month primarily as a result of its companion animal business.
Positive trends in the industry including new innovative drugs and increased visits to vet practices are driving high companion animal revenue growth.
During this period production animal revenues were up modestly impacted primarily by cattle feedlot placements being down year-over-year.
From an operating income standpoint this segment had operating income of $64 million reflecting growth of 47%.
The segment's growth benefited from having MWI included in the quarterly results.
Let me highlight from a margin standpoint.
MWI's margin was better this period versus what they've had historically due to having a better mix of companion animal revenue.
This completes our segment review.
Let me switch and cover our 2 large GAAP items warrants and LIFO.
Warrants.
The fair value of the warrants increased significantly to $2.7 billion as of March 31.
This increase in value was correlated to the 26% increase in the ABC share price during the March quarter.
Our GAAP warrant expense was $753 million for the quarter and roughly 75% of this expense represented a cumulative adjustment as the accounting rules require ABC to record expense as if the $2.7 billion fair value was the fair value back on day 1 of warrant issuance.
LIFO this quarter we recorded an expense of $151 million.
This means on a year-to-date basis we have recorded about half of our full year estimates of $586 million which is slightly greater than our estimates for the first fiscal quarter.
This wraps up our P&amp;L review and let me switch and cover cash.
This quarter we again had very good free cash flow $690 million.
As I highlighted earlier a significant increase in generic revenues about 50% year-over-year continue to drive improved working capital metrics.
Specifically our DPO or days payable to suppliers improved about 6 days from last year.
We ended the quarter with cash of $2.3 billion which was very good considering we partially funded the MWI acquisition and also continued with our warrant hedging activities.
As I mentioned in my opening comments I'd like to spend a few minutes covering our second topic warrant hedging.
As we talk to investors we are receiving a number of warrant questions especially now that the first opportunity for Walgreens Boots Alliance to exercise is less than a year away March 2016.
As a reminder the 2016 and 2017 warrants each represent an option to buy approximately 23 million shares.
ABC will receive roughly $1.2 billion in proceeds at the time of each exercise.
To date we have used 3 strategies to offset the expected warrant dilution.
The first strategy: we entered into the original capped call that can be exercised by ABC.
In 2016 and 2017 we plan to use 60% of the warrant proceeds to fund the exercise of these capped calls.
The second strategy: we have repurchased 5.1 million shares to date under our special share repurchase program.
The third strategy: in the March 2015 quarter we purchased call options for 6 million shares for $80 million.
We have the right to exercise the option during designated time periods between April 2015 and the end of October 2015.
Funding these exercises will require the use of capital of approximately $570 million.
The average strike price of the call options is $95.
Let me switch gears and address warrant coverage.
First the 2016 warrants.
At March 31 and based on our closing share price on that date which was $113.67 the capped calls covered 46% of the expected dilution.
Adding the 1.51 million shares already repurchased we come about 70% hedged on the 2016 warrants.
Now looking forward and assuming we successfully exercise the call options representing 6 million shares we move to 95% hedged.
For the 2017 warrants again at March 31 and based on our closing share price on that date the capped calls covered 42% of the expected dilution.
We have not completed any other share repurchases or hedging activities related to the 2017 warrants yet.
To enable our investors to better track our coverage as our share price changes I'd like to highlight that for every $5 increase from our March 31 closing share price our total hedging coverage on each warrant will decrease by about 2%.
Likewise if our share price decreases by $5 our total coverage will increase by about 2% on each warrant.
As a reminder premiums paid for call options are not expensed in our P&amp;L.
They directly impact our equity account.
And shares specifically earmarked for hedging are not included in our adjusted share count for EPS purposes.
We will net these shares into the adjusted share count when the new shares are issued at the time of warrant exercise.
So to summarize this section ABC remains committed to offsetting expected dilution in our adjusted EPS from the warrant exercises.
We will continue to be thoughtful about capital deployment including repurchasing shares and other hedging activity as well as looking for other means to fill the EPS gap from the warrant dilution including strategic M&amp;A.
Let's move to our third and final topic this morning our revised fiscal '15 expectations.
My guidance comments will now include MWI.
Revenues.
Based on positive trends in our business and also the industry we now expect consolidated revenue growth in the 12% to 13% range.
MWI is expected to account for about 2% for this growth.
Operating income.
For fiscal '15 we expect our year-over-year dollar growth to be in the range of 19% to 21% driven by our first half performance stronger full year revenues especially generics and adding MWI.
Operating margin.
We now expect that our operating margin will be up 8 to 10 basis points due to the performance of our business and mix with MWI having a higher margin in our drug and specialty businesses.
Our adjusted dilution share count for the full year is expected to be down just under 1% due to exercises under employee stock compensation plan and reduced share buybacks.
In fact we expect our Q3 and Q4 adjusted share count to be higher on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EPS.
We now expect our fiscal '15 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.85 to $4.95 which reflects growth of 22% to 25% from last year's adjusted EPS.
As we have said on prior investor calls even though the second half of the year will include the contribution from MWI we have a very tough EPS comparable due to strong generic price appreciation last year we also begin to anniversary the Walgreens contribution and our renewed contract with the Department of Defense starts with revised market pricing.
Share repurchases.
Our guidance for regular share repurchases remains at $200 million for the full year.
Switching to our free cash flow guidance.
Due to the combination of strong generic revenue growth and generics having positive working capital metrics we now expect our full year free cash flow to be in the range of $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
I would like to make one final comment about share repurchases and our share count.
Historically we've committed to deploying $400 million to $500 million for share repurchases in a given year subject to market conditions and other uses of cash like M&amp;A.
When we had a much lower share price we were able to both offset employee stock option exercises and reduce our overall share count.
As a reference point our employee stock exercises can be roughly 2% of our outstanding shares in a given year.
Going forward due to our current share price we will be challenged to just keep our adjusted share count flat while deploying the same approximate dollars.
As I wrap up I want to thank you for your time and attention this morning.
I've covered several key areas and I hope you found this information helpful.
At the halfway point of our fiscal year we are executing very well.
We are working to integrate our new business MWI and we are thrilled with progress to date.
And we remain committed to making the right long-term investment to continue to grow our earnings.
Thank you for your interest in ABC.
And now here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Tony please go ahead with our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve it looks like you've reupped the contract -- the PBM contract for another year.
Just curious was that just a pickup of the -- kind of a 1-year option associated with it? Why not a longer-term extension there? Well the option was Express' option.
And we believe we have a good relationship.
We believe it's constantly improving.
And we're confident that there will be more opportunities to carry on strengthening the relationship in the future so.
Anything Tim? No we look forward to working with them over the next several months and getting something deeper and longer term.
You're right Steve.
Thanks Bob.
Next question please.
It'll come from Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tim I appreciate all the details on the warrant hedging strategy and I just want to make sure I understand this correctly.
It kind of sounds like that for the '16 warrants you almost feel like you're fully hedged at this point so we shouldn't expect any dilution.
But for '17 it kind of sounds like with the original capped call you're probably about 40% hedged.
So if I'm kind of doing the math correctly as it stands kind of right now at the existing stock price maybe you're looking at kind of the mid-single-digit dilution in 2017 if you do nothing else at this point.
Is that a fair assessment? Well I would say Glen that you're right.
We've made -- we're really pleased with progress we've made on '16.
We feel like we're kind of in the homestretch here on '15 and we'll make some further progress.
That's one of our key areas for cash deployment to take care of that.
'17 we have a gap and we'll take a look at that.
And I stand by the comments I made and Steve makes that we're committed to closing that EPS gap and we have a ways to go.
Research Division</strong> And so Steve maybe if I just follow up on closing that EPS gap.
It sounds like one of the strategies you suggested you might use is M&amp;A.
Given that you're only a month into the MWI deal where do you feel like you are from an integration standpoint? Do you feel like the company's at a point where it can actually deploy more capital towards M&amp;A at this point? Well we have very good cash flow Glen.
And certainly I think we've been very thoughtful of M&amp;A.
If you look at the Other sector and you see the 3 signature acquisitions that we made since I became CEO I think all of them have really differentiated us from a service perspective but also from a financial and margin perspective.
The MWI franchise is really awesome and there's opportunities for regional consolidation opportunities for international expansion opportunities to add more value-added services to this revised [ph] segment.
So it's quite an intriguing opportunity to enter that franchise with more capital deployment.
I also think we did a very thorough due diligence.
But it's the first public company I've been involved in acquiring and there was a lot of information.
But it's just -- it's an incredible franchise and we're very very pleased to have this within ABC.
And I think the manufacturers are pleased to have our partnering as we look to -- towards further expanding the model both internationally and domestically.
Thanks Glen.
Next question please.
That will come from Garen Sarafian with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> It's just a broader-level question.
So if you look at the recent headlines and also comments from this morning consolidation among manufacturers and branded price inflation continue to be key trends.
So how do you as part of WBAD contemplate these trends? And where -- had you remained independent so to speak you would not have been able to benefit from.
Is there any sort of a structural change when it comes to the branded manufacturers? And also on the consolidation front advantages you now have that you would not have had.
Well on the branded we don't do that through WBAD.
So we have opportunities for enhanced services when it comes to the areas like specialty data and Good Neighbor Pharmacy in Alphega that is an opportunity we have in branded.
But certainly on the contractual side it's really around oral solid generics.
And we believe that we have the most global approach.
If you look at all the different portfolios of business that are residents in WBAD they really are a unique collection of assets.
And at the time I think we maintained very strongly that it was very hard for others to match this portfolio of assets.
And I think that has become even more so since -- as time has evolved.
So I was just in a TDS convention met with all the global heads and U.S.
heads of just about every big generic company and I believe we're very well positioned.
Certainly generic price increases are something that has added a little bit of upside to our performance as there's variability from quarter to quarter which we try to point out to the best of our ability as -- given that we want you to have full understanding of our financials.
We've got a good headwind in the next 2 quarters.
But we -- the challenge with our customers all of them and particularly I've been talking here about the ProGen customers is to get those reimbursement tables changed quicker.
And that's what we really are focused on through Good Neighbor Pharmacy Provider Network and other resources that AmerisourceBergen has.
And I think certainly the larger customers like WBA have their own resources around this area but we'll always work constructively to face the market together.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You've made some comments regarding inflation required to meet last year's rates.
So what are your current branded and generic inflation assumptions in the updated guidance that you've given? Do you want to take it? Yes I can start Steve.
We remain the same on our guidance as we have said.
I mean we -- we're still at flat in terms of dollar contribution for the year.
Sequentially I'd like to point out sequentially we were down some between our first fiscal quarter and second and I think the comment was we would need to see a little bit of an uptick for the second half of the year to get to our expectations.
And again the point is last year if you'll remember last June and September quarters we had very strong price appreciation on the generics side as a comparable year-on-year.
Yes.
And then on the brand side we were about 10% to 11% where we were last year consistent with IMS data.
So we did see some good mix in the last quarter particularly around specialty products where we have disproportionate market share.
Tony next question please.
That will come from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of follow-up questions.
First of all in your prepared remarks I think you spoke about the contribution from Walgreens.
It has come in a little bit better than you expected.
So can you just kind of like quantify for us is this that Walgreen is sending you more business that they were holding back before? Or is Walgreen just growing faster? No no it's just -- it's purely their core growth rate.
I mean we essentially do all of their pharmaceutical distribution to their stores.
And if you look at our customers as the mutual fund of U.S.
health care we were merging that chain piece.
And it's been very very productive for us to have a large chain retailer and I have been with the combined company now for over 20 years and we never ever had a big chain customer that was buying their store business for us.
We had -- others we have of course within the various companies but we've never had a big chain customer.
I think that's been very very helpful.
It's helped with the capacity and scale issues that we have in our distribution centers.
And we certainly are having to make more investments to keep up with the pace with our largest customer.
And of course our PBM customer is a huge driver around -- somewhere in the high teens as well of our revenues.
So our customers are doing well and they're benefiting from health care reform and they're benefiting from utilization and innovation on the product side.
So -- and that's especially evident at our larger customers so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up on the comment Tim that you made on the generic inflation.
I think you said that brand inflation came up -- came in above your expectation.
Generic came in a little bit below your expectation.
So can just help us quantify that? Kind of like what are you seeing in terms of generic inflation? Obviously that's been a big theme for the last year or so.
Any thoughts of how to think about the going-forward contribution? Yes Ricky I would say that on the brand side again it was better than expected and I would say especially in the -- in our specialty business.
And that is kind of tough to predict when and if it will come.
So that helped to offset -- it's more than offset the -- a little bit generics being down.
I don't think we want to get into trying to size that at this point but we would -- we continue to see generic -- I don't think we've seen any changes.
We continue to see generic inflation.
And it's built into our guidance.
I think we talked about we have a tough comp compared to last year.
So I think that's probably the comments.
I don't know Steve do you have anything to add? No.
No? No.
Research Division</strong> So from a guidance perspective you really didn't make any changes to your guidance assumption.
Is it true? Is it...
Yes no that's -- I'm glad you mentioned that.
I mean that's true.
I mean it was -- it's included in our guidance and that's why we still have a $0.10 range in our guidance in case we -- in case generic inflation moderates the second half of the year to some degree we would move further down in the range.
So it's all factored in.
Thanks Ricky.
Next question please.
That will come from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess on the guidance obviously nice raise midway through the year.
Now if I -- even after adjusting for what I think MWI will contribute from this point forward clearly you're not calling for the items that drove the significant upside in 1Q and 2Q to continue in the back half.
Slightly better back half than the previous guidance but nothing to the order of magnitude that we've seen in the first half of the year.
Just -- and I understand the headwinds that we knew about coming into the year that are in the back half.
I guess I'm just curious if maybe you could talk a little bit more about what specifically is driving the amount of upside that we've have seen.
And then I guess related to that why isn't that expected to continue even relative to the headwinds we knew about coming in? Why isn't that expected to continue throughout the balance of the year? Yes I'll start.
I mean we called it out but I'll gladly talk about it again.
In the first half of the year we've done really well in terms of just revenue growth and also especially on the generic side and brand price inflation.
I would say that the second half we're going to slow down in terms of generic revenues especially in our largest customer.
But we also anniversary their contribution from the procurement JV.
And I think Bob one of the bigger things is just really DoD the Department of Defense contract.
There was a significant reduction.
It kicked in here in May so it impacts us partly in 3 and more so in September quarter.
And when we gave guidance originally at the beginning of the year we always thought that generic Nexium would help buffer-zone that in the second half of the year and we just don't see that as a big recurring item.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that's changed I guess then from the original point of view on the back half? Yes absolutely.
With -- there hasn't been a #2 generic company -- manufacturer enter the market.
We don't know when and if that will happen.
Us being single source the revenues are fine from that item from the generics.
But clearly the margin the economics just don't contribute that significantly.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
I guess just to follow up on the really impressive gross margin performance in the quarter maybe can you give us a sense -- I know you've touched on this kind of across the board but maybe a little bit more specifically.
Can you give us a sense of how much of the margin expansion came from within specialty? And if you're willing to go there maybe what pieces of specialty are really helping push that margin higher? Yes I don't think we want to get into specifics between the core drug business and specialty.
Again I would say primarily drug.
But clearly specialty did well across the entire portfolio.
All their businesses had a pretty good quarter had good growth and as Steve mentioned especially our ASD business.
Yes I mean it's a -- we did all the business reviews.
Honestly all of our businesses did very well.
It was across the board really excellent performance.
And we've made the capital deployments in high-margin areas so we try to focus on the areas that kind of offset those larger customers that are growing at above the market.
And we have 2 or 3 of them we've really talked about.
But community oncology we had a really good quarter our best quarter we've had in a long time.
That's a higher-margin segment for us because we have both the ION as well as the community oncology distribution business.
So I was at an ION meeting last Friday and we had about 500 folks there.
It was a very positive environment.
The -- I think people have gotten used to the diminished reimbursements and I think that the payers are being very constructive in their discussions.
So the mix of business in the practices are good.
And by that I mean the mix between Medicare and private.
And there are some good trends for them to partner with [ph] and take advantage of.
And I think organizations like ION and Oncology Supply will be extremely helpful to the survival of community oncology in these tough times.
Thanks Bob.
Next question please.
That will come from George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to go on a little bit of a fishing exercise right here.
You guys detailed how generic dollar growth in the quarter was about 50%.
Can you talk about what generic profit growth looked like and maybe some of the puts and takes around that? Tim we had the...
No I called out the 50% to give people an idea of not only the impressive growth in our Drug Company but also a good mix of our business.
But I don't think we want to go -- George I appreciate the question but clearly generics are more profitable.
But we're not going to get into that level of detail.
Research Division</strong> No fair enough.
And then maybe just as we think about tax rate on a go-forward basis how should we think about how low the tax rate can go as the business shifts? And how much of that will be driven just by mix shift? And how much of that will be driven by kind of proactive strategies? Yes I would say George that good question and the best word I can tell you is that tax rate is durable.
So again we called out it's not onetime items.
We would expect it's a partial year.
It's a partial year this year so we will see some incremental benefits to our tax rate next year as we have a full year.
And -- but that's probably it unless we change -- further change our mix of business or come up with some type of new initiative or idea.
I mean AmerisourceBergen Switzerland is a platform and we -- I think it's helped coordinate with WBAD but it's also a new interface mechanism as I pointed out.
I think we gave intensive comments on that.
And there's a lot of innovation in that group.
I just spent the weekend with them and was meeting with some of our key suppliers.
So we do think there could be opportunity there to carry on doing more services abroad.
BluePoint is a great driver for our business.
It's been well received in the marketplace.
So the mix of business I think is looking favorable in terms of our international businesses.
And also World Courier.
If you look at corporate World Courier is a good driver for us with above-market growth in its prospects.
And I think we're starting to make some good progress there on really the -- looking at those ICS kind of orphan drug distribution opportunities.
We bought a couple of new facilities that we've introduced particularly in Asia.
So I think again the investments we've made the business emphasis the people it's quite an extraordinary time at AmerisourceBergen.
Thanks George.
Next question please.
That will come from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
Tim can you give us any color on when the new renewal pricing will go into effect for the Express Scripts relationship? If I remember correctly I thought that the contract ran through October of '15 but will that impact the next 2 quarters? Let me -- Lisa let me clarify that.
The contract was really -- it was through September 30 '15.
We just extended for a year under the same terms and conditions.
So no impact whatsoever to our Q3 Q4 this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then see Steven when I look at the specialty business I think you called out that you saw some shift from distribution to pharmacy.
Can you just give us a little more color as to what's happening there and why you're seeing the shift from distribution to pharmacy? And then can you just remind us if the margins are better when you see that shift? No.
So there was a manufacturer-mandated program and they still drop-ship [ph] programs that are peopled by drop -- by Drug Company essentially but coordinated through ASD Healthcare.
So they are distribution contracts and they -- the economics are really comparable.
These were manufacturers looking to use more of a specialty model with -- on the inventory side with a centralized location.
So it's not going through a pharmacy program.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But how do I think about the margin profile as we move forward if we see other incremental opportunities? And do you see incremental opportunities like this to work with the manufacturers in this regard? We try to be very consultative with the manufacturers.
I think overall the customers prefer it to come with their regular drug delivery.
There are certain products -- I mean you look at the legacy of ASD.
Its product [ph] of course with blood plasma products.
We do a lot of work in flu vaccine as part of our ASD and Besse division.
And there's now some specialty products where there's unique data requirements.
So the manufacturers might have a REMS program or some area like that and they would like ASD-impacted products.
Sometimes it makes more sense to go through the specialty distribution as opposed to roll-down [ph] wholesale.
But we try to be very consultative and thoughtful about both approaches and including taking the customer's perspective.
But manufacturers have views on -- especially the larger manufacturers on how these products should be distributed throughout the supply chain.
So we have all the tools though whatever the requirements are.
Operator next question please.
That will come from Eric Percher with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question on BluePoint.
I know you mentioned you had your first injectable product this quarter.
As you think about the strategy you've taken there we've heard 2 different strategies of late one within the U.S.
market focused on very low-value products another in the European market focused on partnering with manufacturers how do you feel your BluePoint strategy fits among the spectrum? No I don't know about lower value but I think it's maturer products.
And certainly with this quite a few participants in the market.
They had to be those sort of conditions prevalent for us to do a private label program.
And it's really done in conjunction with the manufacturers.
And I don't think it's vastly similar than the European model but I'm not an expert on that.
So it's not -- but I would say it's fairly similar circumstances in order to do a private label program so.
Research Division</strong> And I'm surprised given the commentary on tax.
Do you feel that you're pretty early in BluePoint and that you have a pretty large expansion opportunity? I would think that would help drive the tax rate down over time beyond what you have today.
Well again that's one of the 3 components that I called out.
It's grown and increased quickly over the last couple of years.
If it continues to grow it will help that mix.
So I guess the short answer is it could -- yes it could help drive -- it could help influence our tax rate.
Research Division</strong> And do you feel you're still very early in BluePoint's development? I think we still have some -- a ways to go.
I mean it's an area that we continue to focus on.
Yes and we got to partner with WBAD and the successive [ph] elements so we think there's some opportunity there.
And now that WBA is together we really are starting to focus on that and I think the AmerisourceBergen Swift Code -- Switzerland I should say is of course going to be very constructive for that.
Thanks Eric.
We're coming up on noon here so could we just have room for one more question please? That will come from Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Steve and Tim so really for me just a couple of quick ones on the back half comps.
The DoD renewal announcement had occurred back in mid-November but can remind us again when that pricing goes into effect? I think Lisa hit on the Express so we're good on that one.
But then the other thing for the back half would be a could we theoretically substitute generic Abilify launch for generic Nexium as a guidance component for the back half? Or do you not want to count that one yet just given that Abilify is an at-risk launch? So curious to get your thoughts on that one too.
It's Tim.
I'll start.
The DoD will be -- will impact us 2 months in the June quarter May and June and it will impact us for the entire September quarter.
So we'll have that.
And again as we talked about there is a significant reduction to market but it is to offset that and it's a long-term contract with a growing very very good customer.
The generic -- your second question on generic Abilify it's not in our guidance.
We haven't contemplated -- it's too new.
And that's I guess the easy way to say that's a TBD.
We'll have to wait to see how that works in terms of uptake in the market and also the margin and how many ultimately come to market manufacturers.
Thanks Steve.
Before we go Steve would like to make some final comments.
Yes.
Well thank you Barbara.
And this -- we're now concluding one of the most memorable quarters in ABC's history.
I've actually been very active this quarter throughout the ABC universe as we've had many customer and internal meetings.
I'm tremendously proud of the engagement and passion of the ABC associates.
That is true throughout our company including our international assets and we highlighted the third anniversary of our acquisition here in the clinical trial space.
So we could not be more thrilled of our overall portfolio.
Just want to give a special welcome to MWI which is our largest acquisition to date where we continue to be thrilled about the quality of the service their customer base and the people that literally continue to delight us.
So thank you for your attention and interest in ABC.
Thanks Steve.
I'd just like to highlight our upcoming conference activity before we go.
We'll be attending the Deutsche Bank health care conference in Boston on May 6; the Bank of America health care Conference in Las Vegas on May 11; the UBS health care conference in New York on May 18; and the Goldman Sachs health care conference in Rancho Palos Verde on June 9.
So thank you for joining us today.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator.
Thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today running through May 7 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing (320) 365-3844 and entering the access code of 357616.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the AmerisourceBergen Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
Now I'll turn the conference call over to Ms.
Barbara Brungess.
Good morning everyone and welcome to AmerisourceBergen's earnings conference call covering our third quarter of fiscal 2015.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations and joining me today are Steve Collis AmerisourceBergen's President and CEO; and Tim Guttman Executive Vice President and CFO.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations.
We remind you that there are many risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors we refer you to our SEC filings including our 10-K report for fiscal 2014 and other filings.
Also AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update the matters discussed in this conference call and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
As always those connected by phone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our comments.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that AmerisourceBergen associates once again delivered strong performance in our third fiscal quarter of 2015.
As we reported this morning in our press release our revenues increased 13% to $34.2 billion.
And our adjusted earnings per share were up over 19% to $1.2 billion -- a $1.26 and we generated an exceptional $1.1 billion in free cash flow.
Our results were driven by solid performance across all of our core businesses and include a full quarter impact of MWI Veterinary Supply which is performing better than expected.
The progress we've made in strengthening our existing platforms and investing in new ones demonstrate our commitments to provide our customers and suppliers with market dealing solutions that enable to collaboratively address the challenges of the fast changing landscape.
We constantly seek to expand our knowledge reach and partnerships in an effort to drive innovation in both human and animal healthcare services.
The quality of our offerings our seamless execution and our disciplined capital management gives us a flexibility to grow our business in ways that help ensure we will generate long-term value from manufacturers at healthcare provider customers our stakeholders and our other stakeholders for many years to come.
Our excellent performance through the first nine months of this fiscal 2015 pace us up very well to meet our objectives for the four year.
As expected we have began to take some headwinds in the second half of fiscal 2015 and we are beginning to anniversary many of the significant benefit of our long-term strategic relationship with Walgreen Boots Alliance.
However organic growth rate remains strong.
Literally is growing fast in our overall markets and I feel our excellent portfolio of leading pharmaceutical services companies positions us extremely well to continue to take advantage of opportunities across the entire pharmaceutical supply channel.
Let's turn now to the performance of AmerisourceBergen in the June quarter.
Holding on the exceptional momentum we had in the first half of the year our performance in the third quarter was very solid.
Strong revenue and gross profit growth drove excellent adjusted earnings per share growth and continuing improvement in working capital terms lead to very strong cash flow.
Tim will provide further details but I want to call out some highlights from our business units.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a good quarter with revenues up [indiscernible] even as we continue to anniversary the on boarding of the Walgreens business.
Solid organic growth and strong brand drug pricing contributed to ABDC's revenue growth; while generic drug inflation is slightly increased.
Generic sales are strong across all of ABDC's customer segments.
We are very pleased that our good neighbor pharmacies chain health systems and alternate site customers all performed well in the quarter.
Next week we'll be hosting our annual trade show for our independent pharmacy customers in Las Vegas and we're looking forward to presenting our health offerings and new programs to this important customer segment.
I have never been more excited about the opportunities that exist for ABC's partner with pharmacies to impact the delivery of healthcare in the U.S.
We have invested in several new initiatives that will enable us to offer independent pharmacies a set of enhanced capabilities that will support their efforts to improve patient care and to receive fair and accurate payments from payers with a new level of transparency.
We're proud to be the advocate for community pharmacies that increasingly provide some of the most important cache points to ensure patients have access to medications and to other aspects of care.
And you'll be hearing more about how we'll further empower the efforts and evolve our GNP network over the next few weeks.
We're also very active with regulators and legislators both independently and through our trade associations to expertly advise and inform those important constituents on pertinent issues for our industry and our customers.
We continue to be very pleased with the progress we've made in our long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens Boots Alliance.
This unique industry tracking relationship has been both strategically and operationally important to ABC.
Significantly as a customer we continue to enjoy a wide market growth on WBA this quarter.
While we've almost for the anniversary the onboarding of the distribution business we are not finished growing the relationship and we are both focused on exploring additional way to create new value points through WBAD and other share opportunities.
As our retail business is growing substantially over the last two years we both had strong performance in our health systems and all [indiscernible] segments.
During the quarter we were very pleased to receive acute distributor of the year in the Mark McKenna Supplier of the Year Award from Novation which is been a valued partner for many years.
I believe this recognition from Novation in a year of tremendous change for AmerisourceBergen highlights the tireless efforts our associates make every day to ensure that all of our customers are well served.
AmerisourceBergen specialty group had impressive results in the quarter with a number of different factors driving strong sales.
Setting aside the impact of some previously reported manufacturing post changes on certain oncology products which moved some revenues from Drug Company into specialty.
ABSG revenues were up 13%.
Apposition distribution business ASD and our community oncology businesses all performed very well in the quarter.
While reimbursement issues with ASP drugs persist the market leadership and credibility the specialty company and their leaders enjoy is a continual source of pride and differentiation from AmerisourceBergen.
I worked with many of these leaders and associates.
Where in some cases [indiscernible] decades and they are always passionate constantly innovative and importantly remain very customer centered.
Their performance this year has been especially strong and positions us well to continue to drive and be the leader in the specialty arena.
The decades we have spent broadly developing our portfolio of specialty offerings and bolting up the capabilities and expertise in the industry to handle complex product and services have enabled us to play a leading role in dealing with products for special needs.
Our capabilities excel extend well beyond sophisticated logistics and into the distinct requirements for the specific disease states and unique classes of products.
The combination of services and expertise we offer helps those manufacturers and healthcare providers manage the opportunities and challenges of this most dynamic segment of the market.
Whether we are dealing with a new branded chemical or biologic product a generic version or a mature therapy or a product in growth areas such as biosimilars AmerisourceBergen has the expertise required to help ensure product success across the entire lifecycle of the drug.
As health reform and other economic realities bring even more focus on the specialty products segments.
AmerisourceBergen is best positioned to help our partners maximize the benefits of advanced specialty products.
Regarding biosimilars specifically we continue to believe that their introduction to US market will give us a tremendous opportunity to further develop us demonstrate our strength in these areas.
But we are not certain on the timing of specific product launches.
While we remain excited about the opportunity to demonstrate the value we can bring to this new type of products majority of the benefits from biosimilars are so likely a way forward.
Of course our collaborative efforts are no longer confined to the US.
We are very pleased with the progress we’ve made as we have expanded our international presence while improving the services we offer our manufacturer and provider customers of our Bluepoint private label program and ABC swift are progressing well and are demonstrators of the innovative services and solutions we will continue to develop in the years ahead.
In addition we are pleased with the progress we have made with our specialty joint venture in Brazil.
In the US we continue to add new manufacturers to our programs running through our national distribution center in Columbus.
Wholesalers have never been more important to the pharmaceutical supply channel as we move through a wave of customer and supplier consolidation and the healthcare landscape continues to evolve with the rapid pace there is great opportunity for our industry and for AmerisourceBergen in particular to demonstrate the full value we can provide.
Let's turn now to the other segments.
As I mentioned earlier this was the first time we had a full quarter of MWI in our results and we are very pleased with their performance.
We’ve made excellent progress on the integration and on the identification of synergies I am very confident that MWI will continue to deliver excellent performance and will make important contributions to the value we provide to the pharmaceutical supply channel as we expand our efforts into animal health.
We continue to believe we acquired a first rate company and organization with MWI.
[Indiscernible] are the acknowledged leaders in this field and are enthusiastic about the way they can further enhance the offering with the expanded opportunity under the ABC umbrella.
Their willingness to embrace and implement new ideas and their commitment to both outstanding execution and customer service bodes well for the future of their business and the role that they will play as part of ABC.
Our manufacture services businesses also had a solid June quarter.
Our expertise in developing patient access adherence programs and the experience we bring to bear in the regulatory compliance and policy areas is a differentiator today.
Our increasingly global reach our manufacture services businesses further expand our value proposition to manufacturers as we look to expand our ability to also fully cadence global clinical and consulting solutions or virtually any specialty products launched in the developed world.
These are great times to the pharmaceutical services industry in both the human and animal health segments.
Organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market are being driven by better economic conditions health reform initiatives exceptional launch of the new brand products and population demographics.
Advances in veterinary medicine have improved the quality of life in of companion animals and given pet owners far more choices in maintaining their health.
In addition increasing global demand for proteins drives the production side of the market and creates opportunities to extend the expertise MWI has gone in the US into developing global markets.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter of 2015 we again expect the strong trends in overall market growth to continue while trends in certain specific areas will moderate.
Tim will provide more detail but given these trends and our performance in the June quarter we are narrowing our guidance range for adjusted earnings per share for the full fiscal year to 492 to 497 which represent outstanding growth of 24% to 25% over last year.
As we look further ahead to fiscal 2016 it is too early to give detailed guidance but we can see a path to earnings per share growth in the low teens.
We are still working through our in depth planning process but there are few headwinds and tailwinds that we think you should bear in mind as you think about our growth rate for fiscal 2016.
First the tailwinds continued solid organic revenue growth and brand growth inflation; secondly better generic launches and five incremental management benefits from MWI acquisition.
The headwinds are; significant impact from DoD contract repricing in the first half of the year.
As a customer we also anticipate in fiscal 2016 includes [indiscernible] late in the fiscal year and declining contribution from generic inflation.
There are few additional functions to concentrate as you think about fiscal 2016.
We assume no valuation for [indiscernible] exercises because we have the 2016 warrants 100% hedged.
We expect to repurchase $300 million in shares under our normal program.
No contribution from M&amp;A is planned in 2016 and no meaningful contribution from biosimilars in 2016.
We remain hopeful that biosimilars are a great opportunity for ABC particularly for the physician administered products.
But it’s too difficult to predict the timing of any launches at this time.
However the underlying fundamentals of our business remain strong I want to reiterate that these are preliminary thoughts and that we will give our detailed guidance when we report our fourth quarter in the fall.
Before I turn it over to Tim I want to commend our ADC associates for delivering stellar performance through nine months of fiscal 2015.
Over the last few years we've challenged our people to develop our talent in new leadership areas both with our existing associates and by recruiting high quality individuals externally in order to ensure that we can grow our business by remaining the partner of choice in the pharmaceutical supply channel.
The value creation we generate is the result of flawless execution creative thinking and the courage to implement bold new ideas.
Our associates share my conviction as we make vital contributions to the health and well being of humans and animals.
And by extending in that growth we can continue to provide excellent returns to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Consistent with past quarters my remarks will focus primarily on our adjusted results.
Let me point out that all financial comparisons are for our third fiscal quarter ended June 30th 2015 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
I have three topics to cover this morning.
First I'll recap consolidated and segment P&amp;L performance.
I'll also cover few consolidated cash flow highlights.
Second topic; I'll briefly recap our large hedging progress to date and my third topic I'll wrap up with comments about guidance for fiscal year '15 and also provide some preliminary thoughts in fiscal '16.
So with that we can begin our Q3 review.
Revenues increased $3.9 billion to $34.2 billion up 13%.
On an overall basis sales to Walgreen stores accounted for roughly 50% up our revenue dollar increase as a reminder this is now our third quarter of having this key customers business in all their brand and generic volumes for the entire quarter consequently a majority of their growth continues to be related to year-over-year business ramping.
Additionally MWI contributed roughly 20% of our overall revenue dollar growth.
The quarters adjusted gross profit increased $184 million or 22% to just over $1 billion.
About 70% of the dollar growth came from our other segment.
Primarily as result of adding a full quarter of MWI's results.
The remaining dollar growth was from our pharmaceutical distribution segments driven primarily by revenue growth.
Operating expenses our total adjusted operating expense increased about $122 million or 28% to approximately $551 million consistent with a change in gross profit dollars and I've just covered the other segment drove about 70% of the dollar growth again primarily due to MWI.
Operating income our adjusted operating income was $455 million up about $52 million for a very strong 16% growth rate.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.33% up three basis points due to adding MWI as they have a higher margin profile than our core drug businesses.
Moving below the operating income line interest expense net was about $28 million and roughly half of the quarterly expense was related to the MWI acquisition financing.
Income taxes our adjusted income tax rate was 35.3% for the current quarter down from the prior year.
We continue to realize the decrease in our cash rates due to income growth in our international businesses.
Additionally this quarter we realized about a 40 basis points improvement in our tax rates related to the filing of our 2014 tax return and recognizing a favorable cash provision to return adjustment.
For the full year we now expect our cash rate to be between 36% and 36.5%.
For the quarter our adjusted diluted EPS increased 19% to $1.20 driven by organic operating income growth the addition of MWI and the benefit of a lower consolidate cash rates.
Our adjusted diluted share count at 231.3 million shares was essentially flat to last year's quarter.
Let's move forward and discuss our segment result starting with pharmaceutical distributions.
Total segment revenues were about $32.8 billion up 10% as mentioned earlier by key Drug Company head growth in revenues of 9% driven by two items.
The first item; market growth continues to be good driven by volume and strong pricing especially in the brand drug side.
I should note that sales of hepatitis C drugs did not contribute meaningfully to the overall revenue growth in our Drug Company.
And the second item; we have an anniversary of full implementation of the Walgreens contract yet so we continue to realize a revenue benefits here also.
In terms of mix Drug Company totaled generic revenues increased year-over-year just over 20% in dollars.
Most of it increased is the result of service in Walgreens fully this quarter while last year in the June '14 quarter we're servicing about 70% of their locations of brands and generics.
Our specialty business group had overall revenue increased to 22% similar to the past few quarters adjusting for the shift in certain oncology revenues from our drug company to our specialty business our specialty business grew an impressive 13% from higher volumes a good pricing environment and new brand drug introductions.
Specialty growth came primarily from sales of oncology and ophthalmology drugs from our large businesses ASD oncology supply and specialty medical.
This is the fourth quarter in a row with solid revenue growth in oncology supply our business that focuses on serving community oncology.
These sales growth percentages for drug company and specialty that I just provided are before intra-segment elimination consistent with how we have reported these growth rates in past quarter.
Moving to gross profit the segment’s gross profit was $746 million up about 8% we saw a very good gross profit growth in our specialty business due to higher revenue growth.
Our drug company had solid gross profit growth from higher revenues but as discussed in the past these contributions were negatively impacted by two items one that started the Department of Defense contract that we renewed at a margin in line with markets and two we had fewer generic drug price increases in the quarter and our total dollar contribution for the generic inflation was down somewhat sequentially for the March quarter and meaningfully compared to last year’s quarter.
Segment operating expenses were $368 million and were up about 11% this increase is primarily related to payroll delivery cost depreciation and IT cost to support the segment’s large volume growth and operational complexity.
Additionally we continue to ramp our national distribution center in Ohio and our Switzerland business both are performing well but are not yet fully optimized.
Finally operating expense also include the additional incentive compensation accruals related to the strong year-to-date performance of the two business groups in this segment.
Segment operating income was $378 million and up about 5% our specialty business group had good growth this quarter offset by lower growth in our core drug business due to the items I just highlighted.
We can now move to our other segments which include consulting services world courier and MWI.
In the quarter total segment revenues were $1.5 billion up significantly due to the addition of MWI on a comparable basis excluding MWI the revenue growth would have been as a percentage in the mid teens with a majority of the revenue growth coming from our fair comp distribution business and the remainder from our core consulting business including Canada.
MWI had a very good revenue quarter as a result of strong companion animal revenues.
On a comparable basis the last year the consolidated revenues increased in the high single digits as a percentage as a result of increased volumes new product introductions and a solid pricing environment.
From an operating income standpoint we had significant increase of $44 million to total operating income of $77 million.
The segment benefited from having MWI included in the quarterly results.
In terms of MWI we are pleased with our overall operating margin as a result of higher companion animal revenues and we are tracking right on schedule in terms of integrating the business and capturing synergies.
Finally we’re also very pleased with both consulting and world courier we had solid income growth in the June growth as a result of better than expected revenues.
This completes our segment review so let me switch and cover our two large GAAP items warrants and LIFO.
Warrants the fair value of warrants decreased to $2.4 billion as of June 30th this decrease in value was due primarily to the 6% decrease in the ABC share price from March 31st to June 30th.
This decrease in the ABC share price also drove a GAAP P&amp;L credit of $15 million for the quarter.
LIFO this quarter we recorded an expense of $159 million our full year LIFO estimate is now revised at $602 million this represents an increase of $254 million versus the prior year.
The increase is due primarily to an expected higher annualized brand inflation rate now estimated to be in the mid teens and also a slightly higher inventory balance through the overall business growth.
This wraps up our P&amp;L review.
Let me switch and cover cash and capital deployments.
This quarter we had excellent free cash flow of nearly $1.1 billion a record quarter for ABC as I highlighted earlier a significant increase in generic revenues for last two quarters and the benefits of scale help to drive our improved working capital metrics.
We ended the quarter with cash of $2.6 billion which is very good considering we paid down $250 million on our term loan we also repurchased about $112 million of stock under our regular share repurchase program bringing our year-to-date total under this program to $260 million.
We also continued to make steady progress under our special share repurchase program.
As you remember this program is designed to cover our hedging.
This quarter we purchased 1.2 million shares for about $133 million.
We also exercised half of the call options that we executed back in March 2015 meaning we purchased 3 million shares for $287 million.
This quarter we included a table in this morning's earnings release that covers a large hedging progress and as said you refer to the table to the details on our coverage.
We are pleased that we are now 100% hedged against our 2016 warrant meaning to our investors that we'll avoid adjusted EPS dilutions upon the first warrant exercise.
As we go forward we expect to deploy the appropriate capital to remain 100% hedged.
Offsetting the remaining potential warrant solution on the 2017 warrant remains a top priority as we thoughtfully consider our capital deployment.
Let's move to our third and final topic this morning our guidance.
And first one; we'll provide updated guidance for fiscal '15 and few key areas.
Adjusted EPS we expect our fiscal '15 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $4.92 to $4.97 which reflects growth in 24% to 25% last year's adjusted EPS.
Share repurchases our guidance for regular share repurchases increases to $300 million for the full year and wrapping up with free cash flow we now expect to be into the $3 billion range for the full year driven primarily by a much improved generic revenue mix.
Let me switch and provide a few additional details followed by key commentary on fiscal '16.
One based on trends including activity in July to date.
We continue to see the slowdown in generic drug price inflation as a result of fewer drugs having price increases in addition to generic price increases being more modest in comparison to recent history.
Consequently we have changed our view this area and we are now expecting that the associated income contribution in fiscal '16 will be lower.
Two our working assumption is that operating income and adjusted EPS growth will be higher in the second half of fiscal '16 given that we still have significant Department of Defense contract headwind at first two quarters of fiscal '16.
Also these first two quarters we'll have tougher comparable related to generic price depreciation.
And three our free cash flow is benefiting in fiscal '15 due to the one time ramping of the Walgreen's generic business which also gives us significant scale.
We expect to see some moderation in cash flow area in fiscal '16.
As I wrap-up my prepared comments I want to thank you for your time and your attention this morning we are in the home stretch of fiscal '15 and we're very pleased with the progress we made to date.
We'll provide specific fiscal '16 guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call in late October.
Thank you for your interest in ABC and now here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Thank you Tim.
We'll now open the call to question.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up so we can accommodate as many callers as possible.
Please go ahead [Tom].
[Operator Instructions] Our first question's from the line of Glen Santangelo with Crédit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Tim I appreciate all the guidance that you just gave on the cash flow.
My first question was really around you know your free cash flow guidance now is 2.8 billion to 3.2 billion and just kind of looking at last quarter's press release it was only 2 billion to 2.3 billion.
So could give us a sense or maybe what changed in the last 90 days and maybe you know when you think about your new cash flow expectations.
Could you give us a sense or maybe how much might be a one time working capital benefit so we can think about more and more normalized will help us model more normalized cash flow in fiscal '16? Yes Glen.
Yeah we've been -- cash flow has been super this year.
It's gone up I would say that we've been pleasantly surprised by just a mix and higher generic again last quarter and in to this quarter.
There's always a little bit of a lag on cash flow with the way we pay invoices I think the other we've done very well managing inventory level through the summer that’s certainly has helped us.
So it's been a good story for ABC in terms of next year we'll have a moderation.
We did have a onetime benefit this year earlier in the year and reducing inventory.
But I think at this point still lot of moving parts and we're seeing for '16 we'll see a moderation but I don’t think we really want to quantify yet still trying to finish up our planning process.
Okay.
That’s fine.
Maybe I just ask one follow-up on your initial fiscal '16 commentary.
It seems like you only included the $300 million of capital deployment.
I'm guessing that from the share repo to offset some anticipated dilution.
At this point if you don’t buy anything or buyback more of your stock you will be net cash flow positive and I don’t you going to do that.
So just really a question of you not sure how you are going to deploy the capital but I'm assuming that’s going be a reasonable part of the growth over the next 12 to 18 months.
Yes I’ll start Glen and Steve can certainly jump in but we have tremendous financial flexibility we’re in good position here.
We started off in our guidance with a number of -- it’s closer this year and I think our investors know that we’re a very prudent and thoughtful if we have opportunities to deploy capital and buyback shares at a good price.
We will assuming we don’t have other value creation ideas out there like M&amp;A so certainly smart M&amp;A comes first but given the opportunity we’ll look at share repurchases.
We don’t have anything that we sample as I said in my prepared comments but we’re very active and certainly if we can find you know another MWI health business or World Courier or a TheraCom which are the three acquisitions we made in the last couple of years that are great strategic and operational benefits to our company and with the very strong culture if you look back I just reflecting on this in my remarks when I prepared my remarks you know oncology supplies almost 20 years ago since we reported and that was $7 million and it’s pretty remarkable and then two years after that with eye on [indiscernible] safety we started ASD RTS and we acquired [indiscernible] it is not only the contributions from those businesses it’s a contribution from the people that we brought in.
So and now we see that’s with some of the people we brought in from World Courier and MWI as well which is a larger organization.
So bringing in the right mix of culture people there are can associate with the core business that’s really a key that differentiates AmerisourceBergen we have great home with people who want to stay with the organization and grow their business.
So I think that’s one of the things that we're very thoughtful of along with the attributes of the business but as an act of common M&amp;A and we certainly participating in things [indiscernible].
And I guess Glen just to remind everyone we’re still planning to balance right between we still have hedging we still have about two years to go maybe on the second warrant most likely to March of 17th we have to balance purchasing shares to offset that potentially and also the regular share program.
So so far walked a while and be opportunistic in both areas.
Thanks Glen.
Next question please.
Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Can you give us a sense on MWI maybe what portion of the growth that you’re pointing to was more from the industry and what may have been share gains? And can you also mention pricing is that across the board strategy by you to raise pricing or is that just simply passing on to manufactured bumps in the latest period? Bob this is Tim.
No it's certainly the latter it's a good pricing for manufacturers that we’re able to pass through and there is a benefit [indiscernible] on the drug side.
And we’re particularly strong in the companion animal segment and we think a lot of that is demographics there is a couple of new products some of the things that we talked about for ADC are definitely true for MWI their private label programs are strong their generic growth is very strong.
We’ve had a little bit below expected on the production side but we have a very strong offering there and there is some changes in the market we still have some integration work going on our acquisitions of MWI completed which will drive some SG&amp;A benefit.
So we could not be more thrilled with how things are going and the group has just fitted in tremendously to ABC and is a great illustration of what I said about how important the culture is and acquisitions we make particularly like one for MWI.
So just to be clear on the companion side you are then really just kind of growing with the industry or are you pulling share from anybody there? I think it might just be one or two percent I think the market is just growing I mean we did the acquisition we modeled global growth around 8% and the data is not quite as good as we have on the human side but it’s good enough and certainly I don’t think we picked up after market share I think there is a very healthy growing market.
Thanks Bob.
Next question please.
Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
So just kind of slightly couple of questions here so first of all on generic inflation can you just give us a little bit more color if you kind of like look at the type of drugs and how they behave drugs that went up in price last year did they go up in price again or did they just make some and increases that you saw this quarter did they represent kind of increases from new drugs that you haven’t seen pricing action on before? So that was question one.
And then the second part of my question is around just kind of like organic top line growth that you’re seeing on the distribution segment I know that you said it like about half of the growth is coming from Walgreens.
But I mean there is also kind of [indiscernible] so how should we kind of like there're lot of moving parts.
So how should we think about kind of that just the top line kind of like growth if we can think about it go for the run rate.
Yes.
We give a range of earnings for the year because generic price increases have been particularly quarterly sensitive and even may vary between us and our competitors.
One thing we point on that we haven't see major increases in any one product you know very large increases but definitely moderate to the last quarter of order between second and third quarter and we seen that also for the fourth quarter.
So our outlook has moderated a bit hey Tim you want to just add any.
Yes.
I would say Ricky on the revenue question we did call out the drug had a 9% revenue growth and clearly -- maybe a small part but half of that is Walgreen's -- but again there are to your point there are moving parts maybe probably lots of percent or so on and for America as a headwind and we also had [indiscernible] which is a very large brand drug that converted during the quarter as a a little bit of a headwind.
So those moving part we thought so far 4% plus.
It's still pretty good concerning a couple of the headwinds out there.
Okay.
And when we think about kind of like the EBIT growth on any distribution EBIT growth worth about kind of 5%.
So is this kind of reflection of the WBA business representing half of the book and once you kind of anniversary that we should see kind of like EBIT growth nearing the top line? Well in pharmaceutical distribution add a mix to specialty business and growth.
You know just it's really tracks very well our larger customers are probably growing faster than overall market so.
You got lots of different mix issues but overall as you point out a solid operating income growth of about 5% in pharmaceutical distribution.
Again a little bit lower because of some of the headwinds that we called out the generic price depreciation being lower the Department of Defense.
The drug company also postponed a couple of contracts and [indiscernible] for the '16 and the '15.
I guess that book of business to cure itself.
We still feel pretty good about the growth rate and net income in that segment going into '16.
Okay Thank you.
Question is from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the questions.
Actually I just want to ask on guidance for fiscal '16 and the potential swing factors special relative to the last two years.
You guys have beat your initial guidance for last couple of years by -- an average about 10% obviously a large part because as Walgreens and related benefits.
I'm just curious as you think about fiscal '16? Are there big swing factors that you see out there? That could drive that potential kind of upside that we seen you guys put forth the last two fiscal years relative to initial guidance.
I guess well thanks for the question.
I guess that we had in our extra quality out there and maybe it's the new traditional growth but from what we understand about how they would be accessed in market base.
As it doesn’t look like they'll sort out right away in a multi-million dollar drugs if it is in at-risk biosimilar launch in physician administered products.
Certainly first five [indiscernible] that we expect to come to market is not a big enough product to really cause a couple of [indiscernible].
We've got a lot of stuff with a lower hanging fruits out of our businesses like say World Courier in particular we after the first year we had some opportunities to really restructure the business and add some opportunity.
We continue to work on WBAD opportunities and I think one of the things we do just into -- if you think of it as a static model we meet constantly with our counterparts at WBAD and we have the group in Berlin they exchange a lot of ideas and so I think that is definitely an opportunity.
And we continue to be very optimistic about our global growth prospects.
We had a little bit of a rough start in Brazil particularly on the currency side but the specialty JV's doing well.
Our thesis that we can add value to a company that has some presence in specialty distribution in Brazil was the market that we choose to really invest behind -- it is definitely we think bearing fruit and we helping the JV get more access to manufacturers products which is frankly more of a product problem than you've realized.
We take for granted here that ASD and a bit oncology supply that have access to all the manufactures so far in [indiscernible] segments.
That is not being the case there so we worked hard and we being successful at that and getting the people right is different and also we learning a lot and those will be opportunities for us.
But I think the revenue growth beyond what we expect early renewals on some customers as rates may be better than we expected but nothing beyond that I can think of -- I'm really -portraying to anything I think of.
Tim.
I would just echo what Steve said and again we've been very fortunate we worked hard we've beaten the initial numbers we put out but we also had a unique and extraordinary business relationship with Walgreen.
Lots of variables you know moving parts timing so that added complexity and that all worked out it worked out really well better than we ever expected.
And of course generic price appreciation externally was a big factor on helping us too.
So you create your own kind of destiny here we’re working hard and I think some of the others that Steve mentioned that we’re optimistic that sales will come to fruition and help us out.
And I guess Tim just if I could get one clarification question on the comment you made on generic inflation.
I am just trying to get a sense of are you still assuming an inflationary environment in fiscal ’16 and if so just any order of magnitude relative to what we’ve experienced in this past year would be helpful.
Good question I mean definitely we definitely are assuming an inflationary environment we still expect to have a contribution from generic price increases we’re just saying it’s going to moderate and just in pure dollars it’d be less so be a little bit of a headwind for us in '16.
Thanks Bob.
Next question please.
Garen Sarafian Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
So just to clarify some of the other responses that you’ve made so the commentary of low double digit growth rate for fiscal ’16 does not include biosimilar meaningful contribution from biosimilars and also it does include a meaningful slowdown in generic inflation correct? That would be true but meaningful again we haven’t really thought of it yet we just thought of doing corporate reviews of plan and we’re doing the business units in the next few weeks.
And we’ll get a better read on how we feel about generic price increases after we see what some of the trends in the fourth quarter are which help us understand what Q1 and Q2 could look like.
So Steve just tried to jump in I mean we did say and I guess we should be very clear because I said no meaningful contribution from biosimilar and just declining contribution from generic inflation.
And then just switching gears little bit I think you’re having your good neighbor pharmacy trade show again in the couple of weeks.
So as you compete against your peers independent could you talk a little bit more about how you’re improving your programs to gain more independence and maybe the key messages that you’re trying to get out to the independent so that you can stay ahead? It’s a great question and this is an area I think our industry as a whole has been at the best friend that community pharmacy has and some of the programs and services that we offer really do enable us to complete in a more challenging industry so also with opportunities there a 82% of the scripts being generics with some of the specialty products like the new [indiscernible] and traditional growth being in community so there are going to be opportunities for them to access patients.
We’re also working very hard on the regulatory front.
But we’ve done a lot of work and we have Bob Marsh as leader of our drug company who really comes from an analytics and self consultative background.
And we’re doing a lot of work to understand exactly what our customers value and what they want to help with this is reimbursements making sure that they get everything that they’re entitled to the mergers out in front.
Our family works for the Good Neighbor Pharmacy here in area in Philadelphia we live and I was actually there yesterday because we did some transformation there.
And I tell you I was taking to a patient there Medicare patient and he was just saying he was saying this is the guy who brought the people in he's the guy who brought the people in to help make this store look like a [indiscernible] she just about gave me a hug and said thank you I mean it’s just real fantastic and the pharmacies taking in already know how to take care of my patients on how to run backend of the store and lot of merchandise I don’t do the front end of the store that well and you guys have helped make it look very professional very bright organized it.
For example they never had a power station before.
So we have the whole American Greenhornets coming in they've got a whole station there and you can really like and they have it.
We never had a [indiscernible] before with anniversary like a birth date so all that is there now and we did that all for the pharmacy so just a very fragmented illustration of the sort of the things that we do and our industry does it and it’s very-very value creating and hopefully engenders a lot of a loyalty from our customers.
And then we have the tools we also recently for example the inside tenant we’ve shown what that has meant to his practice as he is able to track our scripts or manage from a 30 days or 90 days script to pick very-very interesting and last we had in D.C.
and one of the things that we do is and I've said that to you before on these calls the reason that is thank us for being a good advocate for our customers is helping share their issues.
No other companies large companies come here and talk about the customers as much as you do.
So I think we tried very hard I think our customers appreciate it our tenant next week will be up 15% so we’re looking forward to actually some it will be a very significant increase in the level of services and offerings that we have with Dave Hugh taking fulltime over the Good Neighbor Pharmacy position.
I think you're going to see a whole lot of innovation and new ideas and new services what we called a next level of Good Neighbor Pharmacy Services so thanks for the question.
We're excited as you can tell I probably took too long to answer that question but I'm very excited about what we're going to be doing in this area.
Got it.
Great thank you.
Thanks Garen.
Next question please.
Lisa Gill JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Steven in your prepared comments you talked about consolidation and the impact on the industry.
Can you maybe just give more color as to how you're thinking about it or you talking about specifically generic manufactures that are potentially consolidating and what that will mean for the industry or were you talking about the managed care consolidation and the impact on the industry? Yeah.
Thanks Lisa.
That’s a great question.
You know and our board asked this question a lot and in last month Barbara and Tim and I were in London we got a lot of these questions because we were [indiscernible] the timing of course to manage the consolidation so I think first of all consolidation awaited us simplified number of parties to talk to you and work on programs.
There is no doubt that we are in the midst post -- the Affordable Care Act implementation of significant change in our industry and it's important for large companies like AmerisourceBergen to participate and give voice to the smaller customers and we think about oncologists we think about independent long term care providers we think about community pharmacists and w think about also working with trade association in a more larger customers like our PDM customer and our large chain customers to make sure that their issues get voiced.
But in short I think the scale and efficiency that we continue to provide will always be [indiscernible] not a surprised that’s what we've done for [indiscernible].
The services that we provide need to be more thoughtful and provide new efficiencies to the customers that’s why comments about the talent that we have in knowledge of the market and the role of the wholesalers that we made I think are all very permanent.
You know what just one thing that I think is worth mentioning a lot of workers on [indiscernible] and contracting on pharmacy items.
It is post our belief and so it happens on the back end side often negotiations between PDMs and manufactures directly they don’t impact our economics directly but I'd say that we all in a same ecosystem and that ultimately does have an impact on description and pharmaceutical supplies.
Just last comment in maybe -- it is a big question.
You know on the generic side we've been through these massive merges you look at all the work in elegance done and others how sales have grown over the years.
We're confident that the value that we provide to generic manufactures will sustain through any combinations and that's also was true for brand manufactures and harboring models as well.
I'm sorry.
I was going to actually ask you a follow-up around that.
When you think about inflation.
How much visibility do you have [indiscernible] thinking about '16 right now.
Are you just looking at the trends here's what we're seeing now and this is what we know best in the market so we're going to conservatively say on '16 we expect that trend to continue or do you have any kind of visibility based on your relationships with the manufactures that you have an idea of what potentially price inflation could be six or nine months from now which would actually impact '16? Lisa.
Interesting question.
I mean yes it's clearly the fact that we're looking at trends.
Trends over the last 90 to 120 days our [indiscernible] group track the drugs and changes but we do not have any visibility into the forward thinking of manufactures and we're like everybody else we're kind of notified early before.
So again our thinking is based on what we're seeing and projecting that out.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Lisa.
Given that we're approaching the top of the hour.
We'll take one more question.
Well go to Eric Percher with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So this is the second quarter that you've called out brand inflation and the number of the life service quite a bit higher than I expected.
It's been hard to flush out what's going on with brand inflation given the Hep C elements.
How long do you believe that we've seen our expansion of brand inflation? And are you seeing it both in the specialty book as well as the traditional products? Steve I'll start and certainly you can jump in.
Brand inflation is -- I called out that our LIFO is just pretty significant and again that's true though that brand inflation we just carry so much brand inflation and in brand inventory.
But it's -- I called out Eric that’s in the mid teens and that’s up over the last few years we used be kind of 10% to 12%.
At least for the inventory that we carry for our customers on our mix it may be different for others but at least for our inventory we're kind of in the mid teens and I really can't comment on how long that will last or kind of go forward I just know what we've experienced and in our LIFO is based off our drug company and their inventory.
Our specialty business is an addon LIFO so they don’t factor into that.
But they have also as an aside they have also seen some price increases on the brand side in that business as well.
As far as ASP drugs they tends to be smaller and maybe more frequent that increases there but it's hard in an ASP environment to take a double digit increase and be good.
Your customers would be under water but that’s also just you know here are therapies coming in and comparable therapies that have been in the market for a while looking at their price opportunity so I think really that difference and maybe a little bit stronger than we had expected.
So definitely looking at the GAAP numbers Eric so… I appreciate that so one last one before the next train on generic inflation so I understand the elements that you’ve walked us through.
We've seen tremendous growth and the Progen [ph] book 20% this quarter 50% last we’ve seen Walgreens come in and buying a lot of but you’re now distributing a lot of generics.
So I’d expect that even on lower inflation you’ve got now that a larger book to see benefits on.
Is that not the case? So we did our monthly business review for the drug company and we look at you know we don’t just look at the revenues we look at units and we very focused on this our key area of how we value customers is around compliance with contracts.
So and honestly some of the customers that are most interesting to us post Walgreens world are the ones where we have big generic opportunity.
So we are very focused on it.
So Steve do you have any additional comments? I would say remember that we do carry a fair amount of generic inventory but as we’ve talked about in the past generic price increases are on a relatively lower percentage of that inventory and you just never know how that’s going to impact your inventory which items are going to increase.
It’s not across the entire portfolio where brand it tends to be at some point during the year tends to be across the portfolio.
I think in oncology we’re very bullish about the value that we provide and again it’s a very innovative model and [indiscernible] and her team are focused on driving a everyday value and creating value for the suppliers long term.
I think it’s not all about profits it's also about quality of supply and some of the recent generic launches we’ve been able to give our customers supply which has been very much appreciated by them.
So I think that wraps up Eric the last question.
Thank you.
So I’d just end by saying that we are proud of the nine months that we reported for fiscal year ’15 and these are definitely stellar numbers that our associates have produced use.
So let me just wrap by saying that passion innovation and partnership drive everything we do in AmerisourceBergen our work is centered on being strategically relevant economically competitive and easy to do business with.
We believe our relationships with our customers and suppliers are excellent and we do not take it for granted rather our goal is to tirelessly look for continuous improvements in our offerings to our customers to enhance medicine access and adherence.
We appreciate your time this morning and hope that you found this information useful.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Steve.
And before we go I’d like to highlight that we will be attending the Robert W.
Baird Healthcare Conference in New York on September 10th and also the Morgan Stanley Healthcare Conference in New York on September 16th.
So thank you for joining us today and with that I will turn it back to the operator.
So gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today through midnight Eastern Time on July 30th.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay service at any time by dialing (320) 365-3844 and entering access code 364195 that number again is (320) 365-3844 access code 364195.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T's teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the ABC earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the call over to our first speaker Barbara Brungess.
Please go ahead.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Colin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on this conference call to discuss AmerisourceBergen's September quarter and fiscal year 2015 results.
I am Barbara Brungess Vice President Corporate &amp; Investor Relations for AmerisourceBergen.
And joining me today are Steve Collis President and CEO of AmerisourceBergen; and Tim Guttman Executive Vice President and CFO of AmerisourceBergen.
During the conference call today we will make some forward-looking statements about our business prospects and financial expectations including without limitation revenue operating margin and taxes as well as the pending acquisition of PharMEDium.
Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances.
We remind you that there are many uncertainties and risks that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
For a discussion of some key risk factors and other cautionary statements we refer you to our SEC filings including our Form 10-K for fiscal 2014 as well as our quarterly and other filings with the SEC the press release from – I'm sorry and the press release and the Form 8-K filed on October 7 in connection with the pending PharMEDium acquisition.
We will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures which we use to the underlying performance of our business.
The GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations are provided in today's press release as well as on our website.
AmerisourceBergen assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information which speaks as of their respective dates and this call cannot be rebroadcast without the express permission of the company.
Those connected by phone will have an opportunity to ask questions after our opening remarks.
Now here is Steve Collis to begin our conference.
Thanks Barbara and good morning everyone.
We've actually changed locations within our headquarters here so the train should not be very prominent today and I'm sure you'll all appreciate that.
I am just tremendously proud of the results that we are presenting today and I commend our highly engaged associates for the outstanding financial and operational performance we achieved this year.
Our success is being driven by the approach we take to the market today.
We constantly seek to examine our industry with fresh eyes.
We've already taken steps necessary to avail ourselves with the opportunities that we see unfolding and we work collaboratively and creatively to address challenges we see in front of us and our partners in the pharmaceutical supply channel.
The unique knowledge and expertise we have developed our partnership philosophy and our increasingly global reach enable us to influence and shape healthcare delivery by providing innovative solutions for both pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers.
Our results are a testament to the precision and proficiency with which we run our business and the value we deliver to all of our stakeholders.
In financial terms we exceeded all of our expectations for fiscal year 2015.
Our revenues for the full year were up 14% to $136 billion and adjusted earnings per share from continued operations were up 25% to $4.96.
Free cash flow was exceptionally strong this year coming in at a record $3.7 billion.
The strength of our financial position enabled us to make important strategic investments including the acquisition of MWI Veterinary Supply and most recently the pending acquisition of PharMEDium.
The addition of these two high quality assets to the AmerisourceBergen portfolio demonstrates our commitment to the pharmaceutical supply channel and the opportunities we see inherent in us.
It also highlights our ability to extend our existing capability into new markets and to continuously enhance the services we are able to provide to our existing customers.
We could not have made these two significant investments in the same calendar year if we did not have tremendous confidence in our ability to manage complex diverse businesses that enhance the level of range and services that we provide to the market.
Moreover in addition to making these investments we have also made substantial progress in offsetting the expected impact of warrant exercises we anticipate in fiscal 2016 and 2017.
At this stage we've essentially completely offset the impact of the warrants and I'm very proud that we have so adroitly been able to fulfill the commit which we made to our shareholders when we first entered into the long-term strategic relationship with Walgreens Boots Alliance.
This relationship which will be coming up to our three-year anniversary has thus far been a tremendous success and we look forward to many more benefits in the years ahead.
We selected WBA as our long-term partner not only for cultural fit but also because we believed they were the best long-term partner for us in the retail chain space.
And certainly their performance as our largest customer and sourcing partner has been a very significant contributor to our performance over the last few years.
Our operational execution was also very strong this year.
All our customers have benefited from enhancements we have made to our infrastructure and we have certainly been realizing the benefits of the increasing scale of our business where we have more than doubled the number of lines we manage over the last 25 months.
We also continue to execute on our advanced programs and services from manufacturer customers including those that are provided by AmerisourceBergen Switzerland.
While we have substantially strengthened our core business over the last two years we always feel like we can and should do better.
Our customers are being challenged and they want and should expect that we will step up in new innovative ways as well.
This is what excites and motivates our team.
We also continue to work on the associate experience part of our business and I feel we are not only attracting and importantly retaining exceptional talent but we are being recognized for our culture in the marketplace.
Just this week we were named one of the coolest places to work in Philadelphia by Philadelphia Magazine.
Not that you can put this in our EPS guidance but it's still recognition that we are proud of.
For many many years wholesalers have proven to be one of the most resilient and reliable components of the pharmacy core channel.
Over the last few years our entire industry has successfully transformed itself in order to better address the changing and consolidating needs of the healthcare landscape.
Wholesalers have proven to be adept at providing value that goes well beyond the essential services of aggregating demand and the logistics of getting products from one point to another safely and securely.
We help enable efficient pharmaceutical care and the widest possible access to products which allows our customers to focus on expertly caring for their patients.
It remains an exciting time to be in the pharmaceutical services industry.
Organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market are solid.
Health reform initiatives continue to improve access to care and new and innovative products are coming to market.
In recent years we have seen new products come to market that dramatically improve the lives of patients and often in cost-effective ways.
The R&amp;D pipeline remains full of promising new products.
And the combination of advanced therapies and improving access to care not only drives growth opportunities but most importantly meaningfully improve patients' lives.
The high percentage of generic scripts in the market will help pharmaceutical care be an even greater driver of efficient healthcare for many of the therapies that we deliver.
AmerisourceBergen is uniquely positioned to help ensure products get to market as efficiently as possible and that patients have access to both traditional and complex new therapies across all sites of care.
Let's turn now to the performance of the AmerisourceBergen in the September quarter.
Tim will provide the financial details but I want to call out some highlights from our business units.
AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation had a good quarter with revenues up 8% even as we continued to fully anniversary the onboarding of the Walgreens business.
Our growth was driven in large part by solid organic volume growth.
While generic drag inflation has slowed meaningfully over the course of the year generic sales are strong across all of ABDC's customer segments.
We are very pleased that our Good Neighbor Pharmacy chain health systems and alternate site customers all performed well in the quarter.
Last quarter I spoke about enhancements we have made to our programs through our independent pharmacy customers.
The opportunities that exist for ABC to partner with pharmacists to impact the delivery of healthcare in the U.S.
will be an important contributor to our growth going forward.
For many years we have been proud advocates for community pharmacies that increasingly provide some of the most important patch points to ensure patients have access to medications and to other aspects of care.
We also remain very active with regulators and legislators both independently and through our trade associations to expertly advise and inform those important constituents on pertinent issues for our industry and our customers especially with respect to issues regarding the safety and security of the pharmaceutical supply channel.
With the close of the September quarter we have now fully anniversaried the onboarding of the Walgreens distribution business.
Since the implementation of this historic distribution contract Walgreens has exceeded our internal growth estimate as a customer this quarter this year and last year.
As our retail business has grown substantially over the last two fiscal years we've also had strong performance in our health systems and alternate site segments.
In early October we were very pleased to announce the definitive agreement to acquire PharMEDium the premier national provider of outsourced compounded sterile preparations to acute care hospitals in the U.S.
This acquisition represents an important investment in our ability to provide market-leading services and solutions to our health system customers a customer segment that is playing an increasingly important role in the provision of healthcare in the U.S.
PharMEDium's proven ability to consistently deliver high-quality ESPs in key therapeutic areas combined with their impressive track record of growth made them a compelling addition to ABDC.
Because we expect PharMEDium to make a significant contribution to our fiscal 2016 and we expect the transaction to close during the first quarter we have included the anticipated contribution from PharMEDium in the guidance we are giving for fiscal 2016 today.
AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group again had impressive results in the quarter with a number of different factors driving strong sales.
Setting aside the impact of some previously reported manufacturing imposed changes on certain oncology products which moved some revenue from Drug Company to specialty ABSG revenues were up an impressive 15%.
Our physician distribution businesses ASD and our community oncology business all performed very well in the quarter.
We continue to be very confident and proud of our specialty franchise.
Our market leadership in this area is rooted in customer intimacy and deep experience.
This informed knowledge has been the inspiration for the investments we have made in this business and the portfolio of service we have developed over many years.
Our capabilities extend well beyond sophisticated logistics and into the distinct requirements for specific disease states and unique classes of products.
The combination of services and expertise we offer helps both manufacturers and healthcare providers manage the opportunities and challenges of this most dynamic segment of the market.
I believe the true differentiator of our specialty business is our collaborative approach to bringing innovative solutions to both our physician and manufacturer customers.
Working in concert with our business partners is the best way to both discover and deliver value in the long run especially in a marketplace that is increasingly focused on the cost of care.
During the year our GSMR global supply and manufacturer relations (sic) [Global Sourcing &amp; Manufacturer Relations ] (14:49) business unit based principally out of Berne Switzerland also known as AmerisourceBergen Switzerland has made important inroads on the brand specialty generic and consumer areas to establish an even greater level of professionalism and coordination between suppliers and our customers.
This also includes an almost 24/7 communication rhythm with our partners at WBAD.
Let's turn now to the other segments.
We had a full quarter of MWI in our results and we are very pleased with their performance.
We have made excellent progress on the integration.
We have met with most of the large animal health manufacturers and made good progress on identification of synergies.
One area where we see a lot of opportunity is in sharing and enhancing technology not just in our warehouses and distribution centers but also in the systems and proven methodologies with which we interact with customers and suppliers.
We have made a few tuck-in acquisitions in this area specifically over the last several months.
And while they are small relative to the size of our total business they are very important to the future of the animal health platform.
The companion animal business was especially strong in the September quarter with growth in the low teens.
I have to say that with just seven completed months under our belt we are delighted by how the MWI integration into ABC has gone.
Moreover we feel very confident that MWI will continue to deliver excellent performance in fiscal 2016 and will make important differentiated contributions to the value we provide to the pharmaceutical supply channel as we add this complex new segment to our business.
MWI's willingness to embrace and implement new ideas and their ongoing commitment to outstanding execution and customer service gives us great confidence in the future of their business and the role that they will play as part of ABC.
Our manufacturer services business also had a solid September quarter.
Our expertise in developing patient access and adherence programs and the experience we bring to bear in the regulatory compliance and policy areas are clear differentiators today.
Our increasingly global reach in our manufacture services and clinical trial logistics business further expands our value proposition to manufacturers as we look to expand our ability to offer complex solutions for high-value pharmaceutical products launched in most of the developed world.
As I've said many times before it is a great time to be in the pharmaceutical services industry in both the human and animal health segments.
Better economic conditions health reform initiatives successful launches of new brand products and population demographics drive organic growth rates in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market.
Advances in veterinary medicine improve the quality of life of companion animals and give pet owners far more choices in maintaining their health.
In addition increasing global demand for protein drives the production side of the market and creates opportunities to extend the expertise MWI has garnered in the U.S.
into the developing global markets.
As we look ahead to fiscal 2016 and as I mentioned last quarter there are a few headwinds and tailwinds that we ask you to bear in mind as you think about our growth rate for next year.
Tim will cover the specifics of our expectations but I want to highlight a few areas.
First the tailwinds.
Continued solid organic revenue growth driven primarily by customer and product mix better generic launch outlooks and five months incremental benefit from MWI.
The headwinds are significant impact from DOD contract repricing in the first half of this recently past fiscal year.
Other customer contract renewals anticipated in fiscal 2016 notably Casa whose contract expires late in the fiscal year and as we have shared before that contract will be about seven years from when we first entered into this generation of the contract.
Third declining dollar contribution from generic inflation; no one-time benefits from some of the cash flow drivers we experienced in fiscal year 2015.
There are a few additional assumptions to contemplate as you think about fiscal 2016.
We assume no valuation from warrant exercises because we have the 2016 warrant 100% hedged.
$0.22 to $0.26 of net contribution from PharMEDium and no meaningful contribution from biosimilars in 2016.
We remain confident that biosimilars are an exciting opportunity for ABC.
As discussed before we believe we will have a particularly strong role especially in the physician-administered biosimilar products.
The challenges remain on the legal and regulatory side which prevent us from being too bullish on what biosimilars could contribute to ABC in the short to medium term.
Before I turn it over to Tim I want to take a moment to thank our associates for delivering excellent performance in fiscal 2015.
Our value creation is a result of flawless execution creative thinking and the courage to implement bold new ideas.
And our associates are the firm foundation upon which our performance is booked.
They share my conviction that doing things efficiently and being part – and being an expanding and dynamic channel partner with a view to the future will be what sets ABC apart.
The always-improving quality of our offerings our seamless execution and our thoughtful capital management all help us grow our business in ways that help ensure we will generate long-term value for our manufacturer and healthcare provider customers our shareholders and our other stakeholders for many years to come.
Now here is Tim.
Thanks Steve.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As Steve mentioned we completed another excellent year at ABC.
Let me spend a minute to quickly recap a few highlights.
Our drug company executed extremely well this year it finished the fiscal year setting internal records for both product service levels and order accuracy for all of its customers.
Our Specialty Group continues to grow and execute as well.
They had their best revenue growth year in the last eight years with all the businesses in the portfolio contributing.
We added MWI and are in the process of closing PharMEDium; both are respected leaders with high market shares and both have excellent long-term business prospects.
Finally we exit the fiscal year with a strong balance sheet while virtually eliminating the expected impact of the dilution from the future exercise of the Walgreens warrant.
I have four main topics to cover this morning.
First I will recap fourth quarter consolidated and segment performance.
Next I'll spend a few minutes on our full year performance.
The third topic I will briefly cover warrant hedging progress to date.
And the fourth and final topic I will wrap up covering our fiscal 2016 expectations.
So let's begin our Q4 review.
The financial results that I provide this morning will all be on an adjusted basis unless I specifically call them out as being GAAP.
Also please note that all financial comparisons are for the fourth quarter ended September 2015 compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year unless otherwise noted.
For Q4 2015 our revenues increased roughly $4 billion to $35.5 billion up an outstanding 12%.
Our growth on a comparable basis so excluding MWI was just under 10%.
The quarter's gross profit increased $135 million 15% to about $1.1 billion.
Almost all of the dollar growth came from our Other segment primarily as a result of adding MWI.
Our pharmaceutical segment was challenged this quarter with a tough comparison which we anticipated and called out previously the repricing of the Department of Defense contract and the specialty strong contribution from generic price appreciation back in the September 2014 quarter.
Operating expenses our total OpEx increased about $103 million or 20% to $606 million consistent with a change in gross profit dollars that I just covered.
The Other segment drove virtually all of the dollar growth again due to the acquisition of MWI.
Operating income was $456 million up $32 million or 8%.
Our adjusted operating margin was 1.29% down about five basis points driven by the pharmaceutical distribution segment being down 11 basis points this quarter.
Moving below the operating income line interest expense net was about $27 million.
40% of this expense or all of the increase is related to our MWI acquisition financing.
Income taxes – our tax rate was 37% for the current quarter down some from the prior year.
I should highlight that our tax expense and associated tax rate are higher this quarter because of a one-time $10 million reserve of a deferred tax asset originating from state net operating losses that we will not likely be able to utilize.
This negatively impacted our adjusted EPS by $0.04.
For the quarter our adjusted diluted EPS increased 6% to $1.17 driven primarily by the addition of MWI.
Our adjusted diluted share count was 230 million shares essentially flat to last year.
Let's move forward and discuss our segment results starting with Pharmaceutical Distribution.
Total segment revenues were about $34 billion up 9.5%.
As mentioned earlier by Steve Drug Company had solid revenue growth up of 8% driven by two items.
The first item we benefited by solid volume growth and to a lesser extent a strong brand pricing environment.
And the second item we benefited from the final ramp of the Walgreens business.
This key customer accounted for about 60% of the increase in revenue dollars.
Beginning in Q1 2016 we anniversaried a full ramp of the Walgreens business and we look forward to growing with this customer in the years ahead.
Our Specialty Business Group had an overall revenue increase of about 24% similar to the last three quarters adjusting for the shift in certain oncology revenues from our Drug Company to our Specialty Business.
Our Specialty Business grew an impressive 15% from higher volumes a continued good pricing environment and new drug introductions.
Specialty's growth came primarily from sales in oncology and ophthalmology drugs.
The sales growth percentages for the Drug Company and Specialty are before intra-segment elimination consistent with how we have reported these growth rates in the past.
Moving to gross profit the segment's gross profit was $794 million essentially flat.
We saw solid gross profit growth in our Specialty Business due to their higher revenue growth.
Our Drug Company even with strong revenue growth and a solid contribution from generic Abilify was still behind last year's gross profit due to the two sizeable headwinds that I called out previously.
Importantly let me highlight that these two headwinds will continue to be a challenge for the segment in our first quarter 2016.
So as you think about our quarterly progression please remember that these will carry over into the first quarter.
The segment's gross profit margin decreased 11 basis points primarily because of these two items.
Operating expenses were slightly over $400 million and were flat year-over-year.
Adjusted segment operating income was $388 million and again essentially flat.
Solid performance by our Specialty Group was offset by the expected lower contribution from the Drug Company.
We can now move to our Other segment which includes consulting services World Courier and MWI.
In the quarter total segment revenues were $1.6 billion up significantly due to the addition of MWI.
On a comparable basis so excluding MWI segment revenue growth would have been as a percentage in the low-teens.
MWI continues to have solid revenue performance as a result of their Companion animal business.
Excluding the Idec (28:03) impact Companion would have had a growth rate as a percentage in the low teens.
From an operating income standpoint we had a significant increase about $30 million to a total operating income of $68 million.
The segment benefited mostly from having MWI included in the quarterly results but our consulting business also made a very good contribution this quarter.
MWI did incur a one-time bad debt expense of about $4 million in the quarter related to a U.K.
customer that negatively impacted their results.
For those that have followed MWI in the past you know it's highly unusual for the business to have a bad debt at this dollar level.
Let me switch gears and cover a large GAAP item that occurred in the quarter.
We determined that we have a permanent write-down of $31 million in our equity investment in ProPharma a Brazilian pharmaceutical wholesaler.
That write-down is due to the significant decline of ProPharma's stock price from our initial investment date to the date of our impairment testing.
We concluded that the decline of the stock price is other than temporary since the stock price declined significantly over one year ago and has not recovered since.
Let me point out our investment in the specialty joint venture where we are 50-50 owners with ProPharma continues to ramp and is tracking to forecast.
Because of this there is no impairment of our specialty joint venture assets.
This completes our review of the September quarter.
I'd like to now cover just a few key fiscal 2015 financial metrics.
Overall as Steve mentioned we did very well meeting or exceeding our increased guidance targets.
Revenue on a full-year basis our growth was nearly 14%.
Excluding the impact from MWI for approximately seven months our revenue growth would have been 12%.
Our largest customer Walgreens represented roughly 30% of our total ABC revenues in fiscal 2015 and finished slightly ahead of our expectations.
Our Specialty Business finished the year at $24.4 billion with revenue growth of about 24% both are records.
Again excluding the impact of the oncology drug revenue that shifted ABSG's revenues on a comparable year-over-year basis was an impressive 15%.
Our adjusted operating income increased 22% to $1.9 billion.
Our adjusted operating margin finished at 1.40% an increase of 10 basis points.
MWI a higher margin business drove about half of our 10 basis-point improvement.
EPS our full year adjusted diluted EPS was $4.96 up 25% mostly due to our strong organic operating income growth the addition of MWI and the benefits from a lower consolidated tax rate.
Cash flow.
We are extremely pleased completing the fiscal year with free cash flow of $3.7 billion.
We had a positive impact from higher total generic revenues up more than 30% full-year 2015 versus full-year 2014 aided by the onetime ramp of Walgreens generics business.
With better working capital metrics this significant increase in generic volume was an important driver of our extraordinary cash flow this year.
Let me also point out that we did have timing differences which had a positive impact of about $550 million to our free cash flow.
Duplicate inventory of $150 million that was a negative in fiscal 2014 reversed and helped us in early fiscal 2015.
We also had about $400 million of timing here recently in September.
With four business days before Labor Day we were able to order and receive some brand inventory sell through and collect most of the AR by September 30 while the AP wasn't due until October.
This pulled a working capital benefit forward from fiscal 2016.
That's all I have for comments covering our full-year 2015.
Next I will recap our warrant hedging progress.
As Steve highlighted we are 100% hedged against the 2016 warrant exercise meaning we will not have an increase to our adjusted diluted share count with the warrant that's exercised by Walgreens most likely in March 2016.
This quarter we also made significant progress against the 2017 warrant.
We now believe we are 94% covered based on the September 30 ABC share price.
This means the uncovered portion the 6% translates to about 1.4 million share shortfall at September 30 2015.
As a reminder the PharMEDium acquisition will help cover through its income growth any remaining EPS dilution from the anticipated share shortfall once the 2017 warrant is exercised.
I'd ask people to refer to the new table we added in our press release that highlights our caps call option coverage at various ABC share prices which you should find helpful.
Now let's turn to our fiscal 2016 expectations.
The guidance that I provide will include our planned PharMEDium acquisition.
Our working assumption is that we will report the business in our fiscal 2016 results for about 10 months.
Revenues we expect consolidated ABC revenue growth in the 8% to 10% range.
Let me provide some overarching comments about revenue growth.
Approximately 1% of our expected consolidated revenue growth will be due to having MWI for an incremental five months in fiscal 2016.
PharMEDium will add less than one-half of one percent to our consolidated revenue growth.
And as a reminder this business will become part of ABDC and will be included in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment.
In terms of segments we expect Pharmaceutical Distribution to grow revenues in the high-single digits.
Within this segment our Specialty Business is expected to grow as a percentage in the low teens.
We expect our Other segment revenues to grow about 30% which is aided by having MWI for the full fiscal year.
Gross profit.
We don't provide specific guidance on gross profit but here are a few key assumptions.
Generic price inflation consistent with what we communicated in the past we expect to see some moderation in the dollar contribution amount in fiscal 2016 compared to fiscal 2015.
Consequently this represents a headwind for us especially in quarter one.
Brand drug inflation we expect to see some moderation in the inflation rate.
Generic drug launches we expect a better year in terms of dollar contribution.
Contract renewals as we have previously stated ABDC will have a headwind for the first two quarters from the Department of Defense renewal and in the last quarter we will have the impact from the Kaiser contract which we are working hard to renew.
Next operating expenses.
We expect a fairly high percentage growth rate in this area due to adding the incremental five months of MWI and to a lesser degree PharMEDium.
About 60% of the consolidated expense increase will be related to these two new businesses.
A portion of the remaining increase is related to additional IT and DC infrastructure costs related to our large CapEx project.
Examples of the costs include duplicate costs to run parallel IT systems additional labor and startup costs that can't be capitalized.
Operating income.
We expect operating income dollars to grow between 16% and 18% driven primarily by ABDC and the addition of PharMEDium.
Also we had the benefit of having MWI for the complete fiscal year.
Switching to operating margin.
We expect our margin and basis points to be up 8 basis points to 12 basis points due primarily to the addition of higher margin businesses.
Interest expense.
Our interest expense is expected to increase significantly 35% to 40% due to having a full year of financing relating to MWI and the new financing for PharMEDium.
Tax rate.
Our guidance is to the full-year adjusted tax rate of approximately 35.5% which may vary from quarter to quarter.
Share repurchases.
Our guidance assumes that our adjusted share count will increase by about 1% in fiscal 2016.
This is due to curtailing our regular share repurchases until we make progress on our credit metrics getting them back to target levels.
As we make progress against our obligations during the year we will be thoughtful as always with our capital deployment.
Adjusted EPS.
We expect our fiscal 2016 adjusted EPS to be in the range of $5.73 to $5.90 an increase of 15% to 19% over our fiscal 2015 adjusted EPS of $4.96.
This range includes the benefit of the PharMEDium acquisition that we've highlighted previously a net contribution of $0.22 to $0.26 for ABC.
Relative to the two large headwinds I've called out previously the DOD contract renewal and moderation in generic price appreciation it's important again to cover our expected EPS quarterly progression.
We expect Q1 to have growth in the mid to high-single digit range.
By the time we get to Q4 we expect EPS growth to be in the low 20% range.
Switching to our cash flow.
CapEx is expected to be approximately $400 million.
Given our cash outlook we believe this is the right time to invest in our core drug business and specifically our distribution center network.
We plan to spend about 25% of our CapEx to build one new distribution center and also replace or upgrade four existing DCs.
We also expect to spend an incremental $100 million on IT infrastructure projects including two large multi-year projects a data center consolidation and a new business operating system for our consulting business.
Free cash flow.
We expect to return to a more normalized free cash flow this fiscal year as we anniversary the benefit of the significant increase in our generics business.
Consequently we expect free cash flow to be in the range of $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion.
In summary I know that my comments today were longer than usual due to covering several topics including guidance so thank you for your attention.
Like Steve I'd like to personally thank all the ABC associates for the efforts made this year delivering these outstanding financial results.
We are excited about starting the new fiscal year and we believe the company continues on the right course to deliver long-term growth.
We appreciate your interest in ABC.
Now here's Barbara to start our Q&amp;A.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Tim.
We will now open the call for questions.
We ask that you please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up so we can accommodate as many callers as possible.
Colin please go ahead with Q-and-A.
Thank you.
One moment please.
And first we'll go to the line of Bob Willoughby with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Steve did you say "the coolest company in Philadelphia"? Is that like an air conditioning reference? I'm not sure I'm seeing that otherwise.
Yeah yeah we've had a lot of cracks about it but I told my predecessors it's not your grandfather's AmerisourceBergen.
But I think it's just we had focused a lot on the social experience.
We've done a lot of great things for our associates including having open area working bar graphs different sort of development opportunities which they appreciate.
I mean these are actually some of the things that MWI has appreciated about joining ABC is a lot of the development programs we have.
And yeah I think the culture is something that truly is setting up more and more apart with enthusiasm and passion people have for the business.
For example I was at our World Courier office in London on Monday I'll tell you it's very infectious the passion that group has.
Essentially it's the same people that were there when we acquired the company and that was a long time – I believe it was actually just a little bit after we completed the acquisition.
But the same is true wherever we go.
I was in Ireland with our BluePoint folks Friday.
So just – but more importantly from a scale perspective the U.S.
business is also very true of that whether it's Frisco the Specialty Group Charlotte the consulting services and Philadelphia and all our Drug Company regions.
So I mean I'm just pointing out that our culture is really a strong driver of our performance and the confidence that Tim and I have that we can pull off two very complex deals like this.
And we – $5 billion in acquisitions in one year is definitely a sign that we have a lot of confidence in our ability to execute.
Well I'd say you're not paying Larry Marsh enough.
But I guess as my follow-up can you just give us a quick update on PharMEDium and just some of the FDA issues they have? Where does that stand? Well it's interesting because I think if you go back to the pedigree legislation we were so focused on it and got slightly irked last year – two years ago that it was being held up by compounding part of (43:09) the drug safety and quality.
And now that's turned out to be what we think is probably one of the key drivers for our investment decision here is the quality requirements that are going to come that are already resident in that business and we think it will only improve.
Increase the vigilance that will be required from these pharmacies and the scale is only going to increase.
And we were just so impressed with their competitive differentiation and their commitment to quality.
The acquisition idea has been very well received by our health systems customers.
We had some – one of our big customers said "Did you guys take your bold pills?" That was one of the comments they gave us back.
But we had a quick diligence yeah it's not of the overall footprint to say smaller even a smaller acquisition like World Courier with four very large compounding pharmacies of which we managed to visit all of them during our diligence.
But we're excited and we think that there will be a very iterative dialogue always with the FDA and other regulators but we expect that we will continue to set the bar for quality in this area.
And we think that the service will be – it's not a commodity service at all this a high-quality service it's complex and like I said when we announced this if my family was being – getting a sterile IV I'd like it to come from PharMEDium.
I can't believe that a hospital on its own can create the center of excellence that a company like PharMEDium can for these sterile preparations.
So we're expecting to close sometime in the next two to three weeks.
We haven't heard back yet from the FCC but we're well positioned to close and we're excited to bring them on board and we do expect that we will close fairly shortly because Tim wouldn't have included it in guidance if we hadn't had that strong expectation.
So Tim anything else to add? I would just say the other thing just to remind people for the conference call I mean we did a fair amount of diligence we were aware of all the outstanding items and we're committed to investing and resolving and we think the regulatory to be a competitive moat.
If we do it really well it will protect our market share.
Okay thank you.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Next question please.
Next question is from the line of Garen Sarafian with Citi Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Steve and Tim.
So I guess first right off the bat given yesterday's announcement how are you scaled currently to take on a large new retail client across branded and retail? I know that in Tim's remarks there was an investment in a new DC.
I'm wondering sort of if that's sort of related to just potential growth.
And just overall what type of investments you need – you would need to make and how quickly you could get there? Yeah it's really early because obviously we weren't under the tent.
We anticipated that WBA would be a consolidated that's one of the reasons why we entered into this very comprehensive relationship with them.
And so far that thesis has proved to be very very intact.
And we were irrespective of any consolidation we were expanding our network.
Some of our centers definitely have been around 30 years.
I remember when I joined Bergen for example in 1994 that Houston was the standard Mansfield.
And those are some of the ones that are now older they were the standard most modern DCs in our network.
So it's definitely time that we needed to expand the network.
But I think it's a good example of us investing in our core business and being ready for new development and new growth.
We always had customers that are growing the fastest many of them.
That is something that's always evident in our thinking when we select who we're going to try to retain and who we're going to go after in a competitive RFP type situation.
So – and then our exposure to specialty is a benefit to us not only in growth but also in any changes and price increases because specialty drugs because of ASD in particular have a lower exposure to price increases historically than the way that other brand drugs and the (47:44) the top brand drugs and established therapies.
Even the self-administered ones wouldn't – MS and rheumatoid arthritis combo typically the physician-administered have the lowest exposure to price increases.
So not a good thing about our business so we were very well prepared.
We've announced four new DCs and one that will be completed this year.
And we're looking more like Orlando models for these new larger DCs where we have 300 000 to 400 000 square feet.
So that's pretty impressive and we use the same footprint it's very efficient we've retained a lot of the people that worked on the AmerisourceBergen integration.
We've retained a very good engineering and distribution science department that continues to – performing excellently for us.
And we've used it to consult with customers on different projects as well.
So they're a great resource for us and probably something we don't talk about enough.
Tim anything to add? No? Thanks.
So I guess you guys are very well prepared.
But I guess is it sort of in months increments or is it something that will take longer than that to just prep up for? Well we – as far as your initial question on Rite Aid we point to a very long regulatory – not – I mean I'll just go with what Stefano said yesterday in that we also – we shouldn't really comment on what the existing distribution obligations are.
It wouldn't be appropriate for us to comment.
Got it.
And then – on the Walgreens overall you've been pretty consistent categorizing the work you've done and the three buckets and the branded and then the generics and then the overarching third other bucket.
So I'm just wondering what are you building into this year from the other bucket that I really haven't heard yet much about.
And of course given the recent announcements how does this impact the plans that you have for this year in this other bucket? Well I think the recent announcement would probably be mostly in bucket one and bucket two but again that's not current.
So bucket three continues to be discussions around specialty you know is there a benefit to doing more on the consumer HBA or DC side some benefits of – from – for Good Neighbor Pharmacy from some of the competencies that WBA has well-established.
Clinics is one that we pride some models on for example but also network co-development.
So those are the areas.
And I think having Ornella on our board who has been a champion of independent pharmacy in Europe and having both Stefano and Ornella and a lot of the former Alliance Boots people having more exposure to the U.S.
market.
But the wonderful heritage that they have in wholesale I think is going to really bode well for us.
So we continue to have great discussions about bucket three.
I'll tell you bucket two which is the sourcing has been terrific.
We still think we're the most global.
We have overall still the largest sourcing contracting ability.
And I think you've seen Stefano's really strong inclination to grow both organically and through acquisition and Alex having a strong focus on the customer experience in the stores.
So we are very pleased with where we are.
And (51:25) in international specialty I think there's a lot that we're working on.
It's just with the type of size that they are but even AmerisourceBergen is as well it's hard for them to show up directly in any of the results from quarter to quarter but you will see a long trend I believe towards more collaboration and joint innovation co-investments we're looking at in a few markets et cetera.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yeah I would just remind everybody we said bucket three would be three to five years.
We're kind of at that point we're stilling adding top-to-top meetings and talking to our partners.
And they've been busy and we've been busy but clearly we still have discussions and we think we can do some things commercially together as we go forward.
Thanks.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Garen.
Next question please? And next we'll go to the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks for the questions.
I guess just a couple questions on the guidance assumptions.
So it sounds like you're expecting declining dollar contribution from generic inflation.
Just to be clear you are still assuming an inflationary environment you're not thinking about deflation next year? And then this seems to be a bit of a moving target where inflation has been and where it's going.
I guess how much visibility do you guys have or do you feel you have around this important driver? I guess I'll jump in and start Bob.
We are assuming a positive contribution.
We're modeling 2016 after we – just to give some goalposts here we're modeling 2016 after the second half of our fiscal year.
So our June quarter September quarter we've taken that two quarter and period and said that's probably the run rate so that's how we're thinking about 2016 positive contributions to GP.
In terms of inflation-deflation we have a large portfolio of generics.
That basket can still be somewhat deflationary and still provide positive contribution to your P&amp;L.
We really haven't commented on where we think that portfolio would be but again I would assume as we've been in the past slightly positive with that portfolio it's going to be slightly negative in 2016.
Okay.
And I guess just on the other side on the branded inflation assumption it sounds like you're expecting branded pricing to moderate.
That sounds like a little bit of an incremental update.
How impactful I guess will that be on the outlook? And then is the expectation for some moderation in branded pricing is that something that you're observing currently in the marketplace and that's why you're baking it into the outlook? Well I'd say the highest inflation I can ever remember this year at 15%.
So I think there's been a lot of publicity about that.
And it's not driven as much by the smaller products that are often used say in hospital anesthesia It's some of the bigger products as well which has been well recorded.
And I don't expect that – we've probably seen more a resumption to the low teens or even high single digits.
That's the range that we would see.
Again ABC our portfolio's very geared towards specialty which as I've said a little while ago because of ASP on the physician side you don't see the big increases there that you see in other sectors.
So we think that pharmaceuticals will still of course provide excellent healthcare efficiency and especially when they're administered in the correct settings with the right sort of adherence programs it's one of the best drivers of value.
And I think manufacturers I think you just have a lot of therapies that provide excellent value and then they look at new therapies being introduced and the efficacy of those drugs and I think there's been a propensity to increase that.
I think the change generally gets overestimated and things take a lot longer than you expect.
And a good example I can give you is the pedigree rule.
Everyone knew that it had to be made it had to be passed it made sense it was going to cause a lot of inefficiency in the system so the states started passing down pedigree rules.
But it's very very hard to get legislation passed as you know.
We know this week's events but notwithstanding that it always does seem to get very hard to get legislation passed and I would just remember that when you make any assumptions on how things will change especially from legislation.
Yeah Bob I would just say to level-set everybody remember with brand we probably have 95% of our brand volumes tied up with fee-for-service agreements and we're probably in the third fourth evolution of contracts.
So again a change in brand inflation is not a big driver to our P&amp;L.
It's a sweetener maybe but it's not going to impact us.
And I would like to just for 30 seconds go back to generic price appreciation.
We talk a lot about it but just to remind everybody the bottom line is this generic volume and capturing the wallets and not having the leakage.
It's the rebates and incentives you get from your manufacturer partners it's launches.
Those are the things that really drive your P&amp;L more so and what we focus on than something that's not in our control as generic price appreciation.
It's again an enhancer but those other categories are really significant to our P&amp;L.
Understood.
Thank you.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Next question please? And next we'll go to the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
There's always a lot of talk about global procurement in your deal that you put together a couple years ago with Walgreens.
But Steve we don't generally hear you make announcements about customers that come onto that platform.
Can you maybe just give us an update as to where you are on that? And what are some of the offerings that you have in the marketplace for your existing customers? Yeah so I can answer that a few ways Lisa.
Thanks for the question.
The best way and the most practical way for an ABC customer to access the WBAD benefits is through our ProGen formulary.
We're focused every day on making that the best overall value basket.
So it's not really the headline news.
But we do these massive business reviews and the first I think on page 8 or 9 we start getting into ProGen volume.
And when I get the data I know it's the first thing I look at how are we doing in ProGen because it's so important to us and it's a key driver.
And ABC I think with the SAP implementation and with Bob Mauch coming on as President and his strong analytical background our analytics get stronger and stronger all the time.
And it's very complex because there's 2 000 important generic products.
And a lot of our customers are in the market and outside of our usual peers there's also some other companies that get into generic telemarketing and some of those are even operated by our peer companies.
So it's a very dynamic marketplace and we focus every day on making sure our customers understand it.
Recently I've been really impressed with some of the dashboard tools that we have so that our sales reps can do incredible deals have great access to very powerful and up-to-date tools to show customers exactly what their true net pricing is taking into account full rebates et cetera.
So we're doing a good job.
I think we'll carry on getting even better.
Again they Alliance Boots heritage I think people really understand how we need to compete against short-run wholesalers et cetera.
So there's a lot of strong commonality we have.
And then Peyton's group being based in Berne I think is also very helpful.
So that might be one way that I'd answer question.
Just quickly I know because we're coming close to – we're actually over our time.
GNP with Dave Neu is being fully focused on that.
We've announced we had our strongest new level of service offering we call it the next generation of services and a lot of that is around adherence a lot of it is around new network programs a lot of that is really encouraging the highest level of compliance from our customers.
So that's all going well.
We had over 800 customers sign up the first month to go on our Elevate platform and we'll give you further updates on that.
We just had a lot to talk about on this call but we're very bullish about where it's going.
Is there a way though with that 800 customers can you talk about how that's grown over time or what that compares to the total number of customers that you have so we can just get an idea Steve of the incremental opportunities around this? Yeah we will do that on the next call.
The 800 was just the people who immediately signed up to switch from our GNP Provider Network to Elevate just literally in the first couple of days.
And that was just based on the strong trade show we had in Las Vegas.
But we will Barbara give you an update on that because we are very excited about the GNP platform and how it's proceeding and we want to make sure that we stay in the leadership position.
We did win the J.D.
Powers brand satisfaction survey this year again so we note that and we're very pleased about that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> Operator I think we'll take one more question.
Yes and that will be from the line of Eric Percher with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
So a question on revenue and margin and as you do your forward plan for this year I imagine you're also thinking through (61:37 – 61:44).
Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> Eric? Operator can you hear me? Can...
Inc.</span></strong> Can you hear me? Yes Mr.
Percher.
Please continue.
Inc.</span></strong> Were you able to hear the first part? Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</span></strong> I can hear you now.
But why don't you start over Eric? Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So a question on revenue and margin.
And looking at 8% to 10% growth less of course the little bit of acquisition.
These are high numbers relative to recent history.
It sounds like you're taking a prudent amount of brand inflation perhaps returning to the mean a bit from this high-growth year.
As you look at 8% to 10% or maybe it's 6.5% to 8% once you pull in acquisitions do you think that's the sustainable growth rate going forward? And then as you look to your margin on the growth that you're getting here obviously we don't have generic conversion in the same way.
In fact we have generic inflation working against us.
How do you think about the margin profile and your ability to drive margins understanding that you have a couple of factors working against you this year? Yeah.
Hey Eric.
This is Tim I'll start.
We have a very strong portfolio of businesses customers I should say.
And they're large and they're fast growers so we think we're advantaged that way to grow faster than the market.
I think we've proven that the last few years.
That's why we – we do have inflation baked in there.
We do sell a large mix of brand drugs but at the end of the day large customers like a Walgreens and like a Kaiser and others the GPOs grow faster and that helps us.
And let's not forget we also have Specialty a strong franchise that we called out should grow in the low teens for 2016.
So we're pretty optimistic about our topline revenue growth.
In terms of margin margins will be flattish.
Again I called out that we're going to be up 10 basis points in 2016 with most of that coming from the new businesses.
So that's MWI and PharMEDium.
We're really focused on growing operating dollars I mean that's what we do.
And that's first and foremost.
And then sometimes the margin is challenged because of these large customers and the pricing they get.
So it puts a little bit of margin pressure on the P&amp;L.
But again we focus on growing dollars to drive the EPS growth.
I don't know Steve if you have any comments? Yeah I think the last thing we try to do if you just – I would love to make this comment because it's one I'm exceptionally proud of.
If you look at – set aside the $3.7 billion we had in cash flow in fiscal year 2015 and go to the more normalized rate we predicted but you'll note that it's almost double our EPS growth rate a little bit less than that.
Of course when you look at it it's only about six days sales.
However we've done a great job of taking that cash flow managing through the warrant hedging which has been significant over $2 billion of – about.
And then two acquisitions with our strong balance sheet that will differentiate us both in services and margins.
MWI I think was well understood but PharMEDium if you look at their financial performance it's been absolutely for a large business one of the most impressive growth rates I've seen since our early days of Specialty.
It's pretty – their financial performance was what really really attracted our attention.
And our ability that we can continue to carry on driving significant numbers.
So if you look at the job ABC's doing we're investing in our core businesses with differentiated complex higher margin services.
And that cash flow is what gives us the ability to do it.
And we've always said our first prize is great internal projects.
So for example when I was at Heathrow this week there's a $300 000 testing machine that they're going to buy which will save us $300 000 in testing expenses.
Not anything we'd normally talk about but that's a great example of why internal investments work the best for us.
Our national (65:52) center has been an absolute home run particularly now as we bring it into fiscal year 2016.
SAP it cost us a lot more than we expected but we couldn't have done the things we're doing without it.
That's prize number one.
Prize number two is World Courier PharMEDium and MWI.
And PharMEDium is still too early to call but MWI I think and in World Courier we feel terrific about the way we've been able to bring in the people the customers the suppliers.
So I think we're doing the job that you're all paying us to do very very well.
And I just wouldn't look – underestimate the importance of that cash flow and how it's – how it's fitting into our ability to carry on managing our margins our growth rates and invest both in internal and external projects.
So I just – I did want to make that point as we wrapped up.
So thanks Eric; and Barb I'll just conclude by saying how proud we are of our performance this year.
It really has been a great couple of years.
We're excited about developments in the marketplace.
No one can accuse our sector of being boring at all.
And this is an incredibly dynamic time to be in this industry.
And I'm just very proud of the way ABC's positioned – the way we're approaching customers the way we're approaching associates.
Actually the relationship I have with our board I should say is another great element in our success.
So hopefully this call will demonstrate both the value we're providing as well as the confidence we have in the future.
Thanks for your time today.
Barb are you going to close? Corporate &amp; Investor Relations</strong> Yes thanks Steve.
And for those who are still on the line I know we left a lot of people in the queue so we'll try and get to you as soon as we can.
But before we sign off I just want to highlight that we'll be at a couple of upcoming investor events.
On November 4 we will be attending the Citi Healthcare Conference in New York.
On December 10 we'll be attending the Bank of America Chicago Healthcare One-on-One Conference and in January we'll be attending the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco.
With that I'll turn it back to the operator.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this morning's conference call will be available for replay and that will be after – give me one moment please I do apologize – after 1:00 p.m.
today through November 5 2015 ending at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 370374.
International participants please dial area code 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 800-475-6701 320-365-3844 with the code 370374.
That does conclude our teleconference call for this morning.
Thank you very much for your participation and do you have any closing remarks? You may now disconnect.