Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer – you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Voss; our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marty Lyons; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call will be available by telephone for one week to anyone who wishes to hear it by dialing a playback number.
The announcement you received in our news release includes instructions for replaying the call by telephone.
This call is also being broadcast live on the internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at <a href="http://www.ameren.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.ameren.com</u></a>.
This call contains time sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website to which we will refer during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the Investor’s section of our website under webcasts and presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statements section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with a brief overview of Q1 2011 earnings and 2011 guidance followed by a discussion of recent business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of our Q1 2011 financial results and guidance as well as regulatory and financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here’s Tom who will start on page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced Q1 2011 core earnings of $0.25 per share compared to Q1 2010 core earnings of $0.40 per share.
These results were in line with our expectations despite being lower than those of the same period last year.
The decline in core earnings per share was primarily the result of reduced margins in our Merchant Generations segment as well as higher operations and maintenance expenses and reduced capitalized financing costs in our regulated utilities segments.
Kilowatt hours sales of electricity to native load utility customers decreased 3% in Q1 of 2011 compared to Q1 of 2010 due in part to milder winter temperatures.
Kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers both of which are temperature-sensitive declined 4%.
Kilowatt hour sales to industrial customers grew a strong 7% an encouraging sign of continued economic growth.
The decline in merchant generation segment margins reflected lower realized power prices and higher fuel and related transportation costs.
The higher O&amp;M expenses at our Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois regulated utilities segments in Q1 of 2011 largely reflected increased storm-related expenses compared to Q1 of 2010.
We continued to exercise disciplined cost control in Q1 2011 with operations and maintenance expenses excluding storm-related costs up just slightly over the year-ago quarter.
Factors favorably contributing to Q1 2011 core earnings compared to Q1 2010 core earnings included lower interest expenses and 2010 electric rate changes in Missouri and Illinois.
Turning to page 4.
Today we are reaffirming our GAAP and core earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.60 per share for this year.
Further we are reiterating our GAAP and core guidance ranges of $2.05 to $2.30 per share for our combined Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois segments and $0.15 to $0.30 per share for our merchant generation segment.
Moving to page 5 we continue to anticipate positive free cash flow of approximately $100 million in 2011.
This amount excludes approximately $45 million of potential cash proceeds from the pending sale of our remaining interest in the Columbia Combustion Turbine Facility to the City of Columbia Missouri.
Regarding storm impacts this year our region has been hit very hard by a series of winter and spring storms affecting the lives of tens of thousands of our customers.
Our employees in Missouri and Illinois have worked tirelessly and effectively to restore power and help meet other community needs.
In Illinois the February storms were the most widespread severe winter weather to hit our service area in years.
Snow ice sustained high winds and freezing rain caused power outages in 50 counties and created several days of challenging work.
More than 1600 Ameren Illinois employees and outside partners were part of the restoration effort.
Reflecting the effectiveness of our work the Illinois Commerce Commission commended Ameren Illinois in our efforts in preparing for and responding to these historic winter storms.
In Missouri while significant efforts and expenditures were incurred to prepare for and deal with the February storms – and a tornado in early January – the most severe weather in that state hit in April.
Not only did the torrential rain and gale-force winds from an F4 tornado uproot and damage more than 500 poles and toss electric wires onto streets and yards they left hundreds of people homeless destroyed churches and businesses and shut down our region’s international airport.
This was the worst tornado to hit the St.
Louis region in nearly 40 years with more than 2500 buildings damaged beyond repair.
These April 22<sup>nd</sup> storms followed storms that tore into Illinois earlier that week.
Ameren Illinois supplied more than 1000 people to safely restore our Illinois customers only to subsequently send hundreds of crews to Missouri.
Ameren Missouri assembled and deployed crews of more than 2000.
We managed to safely restore power to nearly all of our Missouri customers within 72 hours and to the St.
Louis airport in 24 hours.
During extraordinary events like these our employees’ commitment to our customers is clear and I am proud of their performance.
I want to recognize and thank all of our Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois coworkers for their dedication over the past few months and the teamwork exhibited as crews traveled back and forth between the two states assisting one another with service restoration efforts.
Moving to page 6 and regulatory matters we are currently in the middle of an important electric rate case proceeding before the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Last September we filed for an electric rate increase of approximately $263 million.
We recently revised our request to approximately $200 million annually or an approximate 8% increase in overall electric rates to reflect updates in the settlement of various issues.
This request is driven by the significant investments we have made in our electric infrastructure to maintain and to improve the reliability of our system and to provide cleaner energy consistent with customers’ expectations.
Included in our request are costs associated with the newly-installed scrubbers on our Sioux power plant which represents approximately $106 million of our total request.
The second key driver of the cost is higher net fuel costs.
In a few minutes Marty will provide more detail on our updated request as well as the current positions of other parties to the case.
The outcome of this case is very important to our company our customers our shareholders and the state of Missouri.
The bottom line is that we are seeking to recover the costs and investments we are actually incurring to provide service to our customers and to earn a fair return on our investments.
In addition we are seeking consistent constructive regulatory policies that support necessary investments for safe reliable and cleaner energy for the betterment of our customers and all stakeholders now and in the future.
While we are discussing Missouri rates I would like to provide an update related to the appeals of certain aspects of our recent Missouri Electric order.
In late December 2010 the Coal County Circuit Court in Missouri allowed four industrial customers appealing the 2010 electric rate increase to pay the portions of their bills representing increases from previously approved levels into the court’s registry pending resolution of these appeals.
This December court order staid the two most recent electric rate increases for those four customers subject to certain bonds being posted which they did in February.
Over the last two months the Office of Public Counsel and the Missouri industrial energy consumers have sought to rollback our 2010 electric rate increase to 2007 or to 2009 levels for all customers.
These rollback attempts have been made at the Missouri Public Service Commission the Missouri Western District Appellate Court and most recently the Coal County Circuit Court.
We strongly disagreed with all these motions and they were denied in all instances.
In the most recent ruling on this matter the Coal County Circuit Court stated that the December 2010 stay only applied to the four industrial customers – it did not apply to all Ameren Missouri electric customers.
As we have previously stated we disagree with the Circuit Court’s original December ruling creating a stay for the four industrial customers.
Based on the merits of the case we do not believe it is probable that a loss will result from any of the issues being appealed by the parties and we will continue to vigorously argue for our positions before the courts.
Turning to Illinois regulatory matters in that state we have requested a $111 million increase in annual electric and natural gas delivery revenues based on a future test year ending on December 31<sup>st</sup> 2012.
In Illinois a Commerce-commissioned decision is expected in mid-January 2012 with new rates expected to be effective that same month.
The use of a future test year is designed to better match our 2012 rate levels to our expected 2012 costs reducing regulatory lag and providing an improved opportunity to earn a fair return on investment.
The ICC recently established a schedule for this case and we have listed several key dates on this page.
On the Illinois legislative front we are proactively engaged in supporting the advancement of House Bill 14 the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
This infrastructure legislation is designed to benefit the State of Illinois and its electric and gas utility customers by providing incentives for substantial new investments that would modernize and upgrade electric and natural gas systems and improve service reliability enable the delivery of more competitive supply sources of natural gas and create jobs.
These goals would be achieved by authorizing formulaic rate-making for qualifying utilities.
This would be done by prescriptively establishing a rate of return on equity and allowing for annual resetting of rates all while still providing appropriate regulatory oversight by the ICC.
Qualifying Ameren Illinois would need to invest in an incremental $950 million of capital over a ten-year period.
This would be in addition to a baseline level of capital expenditures determined by Ameren Illinois’ average capital expenditures for calendar years 2008 through 2010.
We would also need to commit to creating 750 jobs either internally or externally and to achieving certain performance improvement goals.
Shifting from our regulated utilities to our merchant generation business we continue to seek and act upon opportunities to market and sell power at premiums to visible market prices to reduce and eliminate operating and planned capital expenditures and to take other actions such as the sale of our Columbia combustion turbine asset to fund the cash needs of that segment and limit its needs for additional external financing.
Moving now to environmental matters as I stated in February 2011 looks to be a pivotal year for federal environmental regulation.
In March the US EPA issued proposed rules for retrofitting power plants with maximum achievable control technologies to reduce hazardous air pollutants such as mercury and acid gasses.
Also in March the Agency issued proposed cooling water standards.
Later this year the US EPA is scheduled to finalize its propose Clean Air Transport Rule which is aimed at reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.
Further the agency is scheduled to issue rules for managing coal combustion byproducts and reducing greenhouse gas emissions later this year.
These rules are expected to impose additional costs on our company and our customers and these additional costs could be substantial.
We continue to have a team of experts actively evaluating these proposed and anticipated environmental standards.
The team is focused on ensuring that we meet these standards in the most cost effective manner possible taking into account outlooks for power prices delivered fuel costs and alternate compliance approaches to end technologies among other factors.
We are still evaluating the rules proposed by the EPA in March and their impact on each of our generating units.
As a result we are not updating our environmental compliance or related capital expenditure plans at this time.
In addition to evaluating proposed and anticipated rules we are actively working with other companies in our industry to develop responses to the EPA’s proposals and meeting with state and federal officials including members of Congress in an effort to protect and promote the interests of our customers and shareholders.
In closing I want to reaffirm our dedication to positioning our company for long-term success.
We are doing so by maintaining a sharp focus on customer satisfaction and by managing our expenditures in a disciplined manner.
We remain committed to seeking utility rates and constructive regulatory frameworks that allow us to recover our costs and that provide an opportunity to earn a fair return on our investments.
Further we are committed to aligning our overall spending consistent with regulatory outcomes and the related cash flows provided by those decisions.
And in both our regulated and merchant businesses we remain dedicated to operating in a safe reliable and environmentally-responsible manner.
Now I will turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to page 7 of the presentation today we reported Q1 2011 earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles – or GAAP – of $0.29 per share compared to the Q1 2010 GAAP earnings of $0.43 per share.
Excluding certain items in each year Ameren recorded Q1 2011 core earnings of $0.25 per share compared with Q1 2010 core earnings of $0.40 per share.
Q1 2011 core earnings exclude one item that is included in GAAP earnings.
This item is a four-set [ph] per share gain from the impact of unrealized marked to market activity primarily related to non-qualified power and fuel-related hedges.
Moving now to page 8 here we highlight the key drivers of the variants between fore earnings per share for the Q1 of 2011 and for Q1 of 2010.
Factors adversely affecting the comparison included a decline in margins at the merchant generation business segment resulting in reduced earnings of $0.07 per share.
The reduced margins reflected lower realized power prices and higher fuel and related transportation costs.
Winter weather was also a key factor behind the decline in earnings.
Storm-related expenses reduced Q1 2011 earnings by $0.05 per share compared to Q1 of 2010 while lower regulated electric and natural gas margins excluding the impact of rate changes reduced earnings by $0.40 per share.
Half of this $0.40 was due to milder winter temperatures compared to Q1 of 2010.
The other $0.02 of this margin-related earnings decline reflects lower Ameren Missouri wholesale electric sales and a change in the mix of Ameren Illinois electric sales mitigated in part by the benefits of the Tomsock [ph] Hydroelectric plant which returned to service in Q2 2010.
Other factors contributing to lower Q1 2011 earnings included reduced equity-related capitalized financing costs or EFCFC equity of $0.03 per share compared to Q1 of 2010.
The lower EFCFC equity reflected the 2010 completion of the scrubbers at Ameren Missouri’s Sioux Power Plant.
We expect the Sioux scrubber project to be reflected in rates beginning early August 2011 eliminating this temporary drag on earnings.
The final adverse factor of note was a higher effective income tax rate on core earnings.
This reduced earnings by $0.02 per share due in part to the higher income tax rate in Illinois effective at the beginning of this year.
You will note that the Q1 2011 effective tax rate on core earnings was 38.5% however over the course of this year we expect this rate to moderate to within the range of 36.5% to 37% the expected 2011 range that we shared with you in February.
Key factors favorably affecting the variants between core earnings per share for Q1 2011 and for the Q1 of 2010 included lower interest expense which boosted earnings by $0.04 per share.
This reflects both reduced borrowings as well as greater capitalized interest costs.
Finally 2010 electric rate changes in Missouri and Illinois increased Q1 2011 earnings by $0.03 per share net of certain related expenses compared to Q1 2010.
As Tom mentioned we are reaffirming our GAAP and core earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.60 per share for this year.
Further we are reaffirming our guidance ranges for our combined Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois segments and for our merchant generation segment.
Of course extraordinary storms and related restoration efforts are very costly.
Q1 2011 storm-related operations and maintenance expenses totaled $20 million which is $18 million more than costs incurred in the prior year’s Q1.
In addition Q1 2011 storm-related capital expenditures were approximately $9 million.
At this point figures are not yet available for the April storms however unlike the Q1 storms we expect these April costs to be more heavily weighted towards capital expenditures rather than O&amp;M as the vast majority of our effort was focused on infrastructure removal and replacement.
On another note I would like to remind you that from an O&amp;M timing perspective this year’s Calloway Nuclear Plant refueling and maintenance outage is scheduled for the fall as compared to the spring refueling in 2010.
Before I leave the subject of guidance I would like to discuss a recent Missouri Public Service Commission action and its expected impact on 2011 earnings.
On April 27<sup>th</sup> the Missouri Public Service Commission issued an order in its first prudence review since implementation of Ameren Missouri’s fuel adjustment clause.
The review covered the period from March 1<sup>st</sup> through September 30<sup>th</sup> 2009.
In this order the PSC ruled that Ameren Missouri should have included in the fact calculation all revenues and costs associated with certain long-term partial requirement sales that were made by Ameren Missouri due to the loss of load from Narando-Luminum’s [ph] Missouri smelter plant.
The loss of load was due to a severe ice storm in January 2009.
We are very disappointed in and disagree with the PSC’s order’s classification of these sales.
We believe that the terms of the fuel adjustment clause tariff do not provide for the inclusion of these sales in the fuel adjustment clause calculation.
Therefore we intend to seek rehearing of the order and if necessary to appeal it through the judicial process.
In addition we are also considering other regulatory approaches to recover this extraordinary loss resulting from the January 2009 ice storm.
However as a result of the order we will record a Q2 pre-tax charge to earnings of $17 million.
These sales were recognized by Ameren Missouri during the period from March 1<sup>st</sup> 2009 through September 30<sup>th</sup> 2009.
Ameren Missouri also recognized an additional $25 million of pre-tax earnings associated with the same long-term partial requirements sales contracts subsequent to September 30<sup>th</sup> 2009.
The Missouri Public Service Commission has not completed a prudency review of the fact calculation for this subsequent period.
If we determine that these sales are probable of inclusion in the fact a charge to earnings would be recorded in the period in which that determination is made.
As I close our discussion of 2011 earnings guidance I need to remind you that any net unrealized marked to market gains or losses will affect our GAAP earnings but are excluded from our GAAP earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses for the full year.
Core earnings and guidance exclude any net unrealized marked to market gains or losses as well.
Further our earnings guidance for 2011 is subject to the risks and uncertainties outlined or referred to in today’s press release including the forward-looking statements section of that release.
Turning now to page 9 and our pending Missouri electric rate case.
Here we provide a summary of our request updated with certain true-ups through February 28 2011 and settlement of certain issues.
As Tom mentioned we are now requesting an annual electric rate increase of approximately $200 million based on a 10.7% return on equity a 52.2% equity ratio and rate base of approximately $6.7 billion.
Approximately $40 million of the request reflects increased net base fuel costs.
Other parties have also updated their recommendations in this case.
The Missouri Public Service Commission staff now recommends an approximate $86 million annual revenue increase.
The drivers of the difference between our updated request and the staff’s updated recommendation are provided on this page.
As you can see the largest driver is return on equity accounting for about $108 million of the difference based on the staff’s midpoint return on equity.
Also the staff continues to recommend that the fuel adjustment clause is changed to pass through to customers 85% of deviations between actual net fuel costs and the level of net fuel costs included in base rates.
Currently 95% of deviations are passed through.
On page 10 key aspects of the updated positions of several other parties to the case are outlined.
The Missouri Industrial Energy Consumers are recommending $58 million of downward adjustment to our requested revenue requirement primarily reflecting a 9.9% midpoint return on equity and the exclusion of approximately $11 million of property taxes related to the Sioux scrubbers and Tomsock [ph].
The Office of Public Counsel has recommended disallowance of the approximately $90 million of Tomsock [ph] Power Plant investment which we have included in our filed rate base.
The revenue requirement associated with this proposed disallowance is approximately $10 million annually.
We are asking for recovery of only the portion of Tomsock [ph] costs that are related to enhancements or that would have been incurred in the absence of the upper reservoir breach that occurred several years ago net of insurance proceeds.
This request is consistent with our 2007 settlement agreement with the State of Missouri.
Finally the Missouri Energy Group which represents certain other business customers filed testimony supporting an approximate 9.9% midpoint return on equity.
Hearings for this case are currently underway before the Missouri Public Service Commission and are scheduled to continue through mid-May.
A Public Service Commission order is expected in July with new rates expected to be effective in early August.
As Tom stated a moment ago this electric rate case is very important for our company.
The results will impact the cash flows we have available to make important investments in our energy infrastructure in the future.
We are committed to aligning our operations and maintenance spending and capital investments within our rate regulated businesses with the revenue and related cash flow levels provided by regulatory decisions.
Moving now to our merchant generation business segment on page 11 we provide an update of our forward power sales and hedge data.
As you can see we have significant hedges in place which are at power prices above current market levels.
We expect our merchant plants to generate approximately 29 million megawatt hours in 2011.
These 29 million megawatt hours include 100% of the expected generation of the Edison Electric Energy Inc.
plant a plant in which Ameren owns an 80% interest.
For 2011 approximately 27 million megawatt hours of our generation is sold or hedged at an average price of $45 per megawatt hour.
For 2012 we have hedged approximately 17.5 million megawatt hours at an average price of $48 per megawatt hour.
Further for 2013 we have hedged approximately 9 million megawatt hours at an average price of $42 per megawatt hour.
Our capacity sales are approximately 80% hedged for 2011 approximately 52% hedged for 2012 and approximately 26% hedged for 2013.
Turning to page 12 here we update our merchant generation segment’s fuel and related transportation hedges.
For 2011 we have hedged approximately 28 million megawatt hours at about $23.50 per megawatt hour; for 2012 we have hedged approximately 20 million megawatt hours at about $24.50 per megawatt hour.
That cost is approximately $0.50 per megawatt hour lower than the figure we disclosed in February 2011 and for 2013 we have now hedged approximately 8 million megawatt hours at about $27 per megawatt hour.
This cost is also an improvement by approximately $1.50 per megawatt hour compared to our February disclosure.
These 2013 coal hedges continue to include a large proportion of our expected burn of Illinois Basin coal and a much smaller proportion of our expected burn of Powder River Basin coal.
To provide perspective our typical burn is 3% Illinois and 97% Powder River Basin coal.
This hedging information completes our prepared remarks.
We will now be happy to take questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions.) Our first question is from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning how are you? Can you just give a little bit more detail on the $0.03 cost on the Sioux scrubbers with the equity linked financing and then secondly just clarify what’s in the ongoing earnings? You’re keeping the storms in there I assume and what are you doing with the charge for the Naranda [ph] excess capacity margin? Sure let me I think there were three questions in there which are all good questions I appreciate.
Let me make sure I try to hit them all though.
I think the first one was about the EFCFC equity.
Last year when we were constructing the Sioux scrubber we were certainly capitalizing all of the financing costs associated with that as part of the EFCFC – those are both interest costs as well as equity financing costs.
Once the scrubbers went into service in accordance with a regulatory agreement we were able to defer them for regulatory purposes: the depreciation associated with that scrubber after it went into service as well as all financing costs both the interest financing costs and the equity related financing costs.
And once we get to the point of our new rates going into effect in Missouri we would expect that all of those costs would then be getting recovered.
For accounting purposes for financial reporting purposes we are able to defer the appreciation recognition and the interest financing costs associated with that scrubber.
However we are not able to continue to recognize EFCFC equity so that was a plus last year; this year when you compare year-over-year results we don’t have those same EFCFC equity earnings.
However for regulatory purposes those are being deferred and we certainly will get those returns once the new rates go into effect.
And we did if you look back at our guidance we gave in February my recollection is we expected a $0.07 to $0.08 negative impact year-over-year related to that EFCFC equity issue.
But I think that was your first question.
The second question I think related to storm costs.
We mentioned in our prepared remarks that we did have this year in Q1 about $20 million of incremental operations and maintenance expenses associated with storm restoration costs.
That equates to about $0.05 per share and they have been included in the ongoing earnings – we have not stripped those out.
So that was I think your second question.
And then I believe your third question had to do with the Naranda [ph] related issue and as we mentioned in our prepared remarks we expect that based on the Public Service Commission’s order in our fuel adjustment clause proceeding that in Q2 we would take a charge of about $17 million and so that is also reflected in the ongoing earnings and is also reflected in the guidance we gave today.
Thank you very much for clearing that up.
Our next question is from Erica Piserchia with Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys how are you? Just a couple questions.
First I realize you don’t normally break out some of the usage statistics ex the weather but can you talk a little bit maybe more broadly about what you’re seeing excluding weather on residential and commercial usage just kind of going more to the economy? And then I have a follow-up question as well.
Sure Erica thanks for the question.
This is Marty again.
When we look at the sales for the quarter as we talked about in our talking points a couple things that I’d say impacted overall the native load margins: some of that was reduced residential and commercial sales which was in part due to the weather.
However when we strip out weather we do still see in the Q1 year-over-year some slight reduction in the residential and commercial sales.
We talked at the beginning of the year about our expectation of moderate sales growth and what we’re looking for over the course of the year today is probably in the range across the company of around 1% growth in residential and commercial sales probably a little less on the residential side and a little more on the commercial side and that’ll vary a little bit from state to state as well.
But that is what we’re looking for over the course of the year.
In terms of industrial sales if you’re getting to economic recovery we did see again year-over-year pretty good sales growth in industrial even excluding the impact of Naranda [ph].
Overall we saw as we talked about in our talking points a 7% year-over-year improvement in industrial sales.
Over the course of the year we don’t necessarily expect industrial sales to be that robust but we do expect that we may be able to still see mid-single digit improvement year-over-year in industrial sales.
And again I’d say this year seeming to be led by Illinois where we saw more outsized growth Missouri excluding Naranda [ph] is frankly still down a little bit year-over-year in the industrial sector.
Okay so it sounds like what you’ve seen in the Q1 would then seem to be consistent with that full-year expectation implicit because you’ve maintained your guidance? Yes that’s exactly right.
I mean we had never come out and- In Q1 we had talked about moderate sales improvement but I don’t think we quantified it but what we’re seeing in Q1 is perhaps a little weaker than expectation but overall we expect the growth this year to come in reasonably in line with our original expectations and we’re able to maintain the guidance.
Okay and then just a second question on- I may have missed just at the end of your comments there Marty on some of the fuel cost improvements in terms of your hedge profile for this quarter versus your comments on the February call.
Just what exactly is going on there? Is that more on the base load the coal input costs or anything going on with transportation there? What’s sort of driving that? Is that the mix that you mentioned at the end? Yeah sure Erica and I’d be happy to sort of expand on that.
When you look at the slide we prepared slide 12 we tried to break down for you the main components of our overall hedged fuel costs.
And if you look back at the changes if we’re looking at ‘12 and ‘13 for example we really haven’t changed at all the amount of hedges we have in place for transportation or fuel surcharges so those amounts really haven’t changed.
The coal hedges however have increased and those hedges have increased I’d say in line with the power hedges that we have in place.
So we added some coal hedges to get the percentages up in line with our power hedges and as we did that we were able to bring the blended average of our hedges down.
And we tried to communicate that back in February that that was our expectation that based on current prices and broker quotes that we believed that we would as we put additional hedges in place we’d be able to bring the average cost down.
And you know at least as far as broker quotes go between February and now we’ve actually seen some improvement in pricing and as we put these hedges on we did in fact lock in prices that allowed us to bring the blended average down.
Okay thank you that’s helpful.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
I know you’re not updating the environmental CAPEX on the merchant fleet because of those proposed EPA rules but is there any sort of directional I mean is there any major change that you think may be happening there as a result of that or is it pretty much youthful for what we know right now? This is Tom Voss.
We’re just now really getting a chance to look at those rules and you know they’re fairly extensive and fairly detailed and it’s really going to take some time to figure out how we’ll comply.
We do think there’s maybe a little bit more flexibility than expected in the rules but at this point in time we really can’t tell how that’ll actually play out on our particular plants yet.
Okay and then in terms of financing the merchant environmental CAPEX is that something that’s solely something that’s going to happen at the merchant sub or do you foresee some cash coming from the parent on that? Yeah sure Paul this is Marty again.
You know we’ve talked about it repeatedly and we said on this call our objective would be for that business segment to be able to provide for its own cash needs.
So with that being the objective we’re certainly still looking at every opportunity to again sell power at prices premium prices to visible market prices; we’re continuing to look at opportunities to further reduce operating expenses.
We’ll look at opportunities to defer or reduce capital expenditures to the extent it’s prudent to do so and basically take actions to limit the financing needs for that business.
Other things that we’ve explored are things like we talked about today.
We’re engaged at FERC and in the process of getting approval to sell our Columbia CTGs to the City of Columbia again about $45 million of additional cash proceeds.
So we’re going to look at opportunities like that to close the gap if there is one in cash flows needed for financing at that business.
Okay and then just finally on the $17 million refund I know you guys are asking for a rehearing there but assuming that you don’t get any change on the treatment of that should we think of there being any ongoing issue in terms of this ruling other than the $17 million that you currently have to refund? Or is this just like a one-timer as it sort of would seem; in other words your ultimate exposure is $17 million as opposed to some ongoing potential impact from that? Right I understand Paul.
The exposure is limited because after our last rate case there was a change in the way these sales are incorporated into the overall rate making and into the base rates.
So the exposure was the $17 million but as we talked about on the call there was about $25 million of additional margins that have been recognized on these contracts for periods subsequent to the period affected by this ruling but prior to the new rates going into effect.
So there is a little bit of additional exposure however after our last rate case those sales and the margins on those were included in the overall base rate.
And I think that’s one of the reasons too why we’re seeing a little bit of a reduced margin in this Q1 compared to last year.
It has to do with the expiration of some of those contracts and the inclusion of margins associated with you know all of our sales being included in base rates.
Okay thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hey you know as I was looking at your recent integrated resource plan in Missouri it seemed as if you’re planning to move forward or could potentially move forward with new scrubbers at Rush Island.
I was just wondering if you could give us a sense as to CAPEX and timing and perhaps as you alluded to before how that meshes with perhaps your initial read on EPA’s Hat-Mac [ph] rules and then also as well tying in discussions- I think you talked about five further units with ACI so perhaps your overall Ameren Missouri environmental CAPEX plan.
Hi Julien this is Warner Baxter.
I can comment a little bit on what we put in the IRP and really where we’re at on the environmental compliance plan.
As you know we filed that IRP integrated resource plan in February and prior to that we had not seen at least the proposed new rules on the Mac standards and of course the transport rules are still pending.
And so that was based on a host of assumptions at that point in time and you’re right – we looked out in the next several years of putting some additional scrubbers on at Rush Island.
So where we’re at today is just as Tom said that we are taking a look at all these rules and carefully looking at our overall and environmental compliance plan.
As Marty talked to a little bit earlier we’ve made significant progress in that environmental compliance plan by putting on the Sioux scrubbers but we are still going to be continuing to look at all those proposed rules and look very carefully at all of our potential compliance options to do what we can to mitigate the increasing costs associated with those new rules to our customers.
So right now it’d be premature to say that we’ve finalized any of those determinations.
IRP put that as sort of our best view at that time but we will sharpen our pencil here over the next several months and get to a more refined view in the future.
Great.
And then secondly I know you kind of addressed it just now but with respect to the Missouri sale the Missouri asset sale to the co-op at this current point in time do you project needing to inject equity into GenCo in ‘12? Or is that more of a ‘13 ‘14 kind of decision at this point as far as you guys see out? No I’d go back to my prior comments Julien this is Marty.
That CT that we talked about just for clarity because I know you just transitioned and I know you realized this that we transitioned a little bit from a Missouri discussion over to a merchant discussion in GenCo.
There is a GenCo asset that’s being sold and that’s $45 million of potential additional cash for GenCo to finance its operations.
But Julien we’re at a point where I’d say we’re giving out any guidance with respect to ‘12 or ‘13.
I’d go back to my prior comments that we are looking at every opportunity to improve margins associated with that business and reduce operating and capital costs to avoid the need for additional financing and we’ll look at opportunities like the sale we talked about here – $45 million sale of the CT – to plug any cash flow needs that that business segment may need.
So those are our objectives and that’s what we’re working to achieve.
Great and then just a quick last question here with regards to the electric rate changes in Missouri the year-on-year plus 3.
Do you mind talking about or elaborating a bit with respect to the net of certain related expenses just how to think about those related expenses? Is that a full-year impact here and what those expenses are? Right no I wouldn’t necessarily annualize those.
I think that when you have a rate increase sometimes there are things that are annualized like increases in depreciation or amortizations however that would also include Julien things like changes in the timing of when fuel costs for example are recognized under fuel adjustment clause in Missouri.
To the extent that the timing of the inclusion of a base fuel cost changes from period to period that would affect the margins that we have for that segment.
So I go back a little bit to what we mentioned in the comments about we did see some lower margins.
We said part of that had to do with some of our weather-sensitive loads also some of it had to do with these long-term requirement sales which again were included in the overall net based fuel cost calculation in the last rate case.
So again incorporating those and incorporating a different timing pattern of fuel costs you’ll get to a little bit different margin month by month.
So I’m not sure you can get to a real run rate on the net other items.
Great well than you very much.
Our next question comes from Andy Levi with Caris &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys I’m all set.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Gregg Orrill with Barclays Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
I was wondering if you could touch on HB 14 in Illinois and sort of what are the prospects for that and the key issues that are the swing factors right now for whether it gets done or not? Good morning this is Scott Cisel and I’ll respond to your question.
We continue to proactively meet with the leaders and the member of the General Assembly and they remain curious and wanting to understand the merits and we are working hard to get a vote cast in both chambers before the end of this session.
Certainly it’s too early to predict the outcome but we believe there’s a fair chance that the bill will be heard and we’ll have an opportunity to have a vote cast again in both chambers yet this spring session.
Okay.
And also on the Coal County case in Missouri are you still expecting a ruling on the merits of that case or not given that you have a rate decision coming up? Hi Gregg this is Warner and with regard to the Coal County case I think you have to keep in mind we have appeals which are pending for both our 2007 and 2009 rate orders both on specific issues; and those are still pending and those will go through the normal process here over the next several months and maybe beyond just several but maybe close to a year when you look at our most recent rate case.
Those will go in the normal course.
If you refer to sort of the rate rollback and those type of issues if that’s what you’re referring to as Marty and Tom said those issues have been denied in three venues.
Whether there’s anything more that will happen associated with rate rollback remains to be seen but we vigorously defended those positions already and have been successful.
But there are still appeals pending and we continue to fight those issues with the courts.
Okay thanks.
Operator Our next question comes from Toran Miller with Knight Capital Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you’re willing to comment on what role what changes might occur as Entergy enters the Miso [ph] and how that might influence the development of a capacity market for Miso [ph].
This is Tom Voss.
I’ll take one stab at that and then maybe somebody else will want to jump in.
It’s kind of early right now to really state a lot about how the markets will be affected.
We certainly think that coming in it should help out with some of the administrative costs we’ve got at Miso and that would be a good thing.
Actually how the market’s going to flow I think it’s just too early to speculate on that at this time.
Agree Tom.
This is Andy Serry [ph].
We are as everyone else is looking at the impact of Entergy joining Miso.
Let’s not lose sight that it has to receive all the necessary approvals for that to happen.
But there is some transport capacity between Miso and Entergy as it currently exists and we’re looking at that as far as not only the ability to get capacity at Entergy into the Entergy markets but also just the state of the Entergy markets not only Entergy’s position but the different players in that market as well.
And can you just give us a broader update on what you think is going on with reference to the potential development in the capacity market? Sure.
As it stands right now Miso has plans to file a new capacity construct next month June of this year and that construct would basically go from a monthly requirement to an annual requirement.
It would be a single round with a vertical reliability target sort of a target number for capacity and locational pricing mechanisms to handle not only the export but import constraints of the different zones and across seams as well.
But the final implementation with that filing here in June will be for planning year 2013-14.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys just got a question for you – at what stage at both the non-regulated side but even the regulated side when you look at both the various rules kind of making your way through the EPA right now when do you have to make decisions by to potentially scrub units or start setting retirement dates for units? This is Tom Voss.
We’ve been planning for a long time.
We weren’t just waiting for these rules.
We had our own point of view you might say on where we thought they’d be and when implementation schedules and we were working towards compliance.
I don’t think anything that came out so far would change anything we’ve been working on as far as compliance.
We still have time we think in order to figure out exactly the best way to comply with these new rules.
As I said they have some flexibility involved with them that we’re pleased with and we have to study it a little further to ensure but we have time to change or adjust our implementation schedule.
This is Doug Fischer.
We have time for just one more question.
Our last question comes from the line of Neil Calton [ph] with Wells Fargo.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning everyone.
Just a quick question on capacity sort of following on a previous question about the Miso looking at a capacity market.
Is that shaping your hedging philosophy in terms of capacity as you look out to ‘13-’14? And then very quickly separately what kind of prices are you seeing out there in the market for capacity in the 2012-’13 timeframe out there right now? Sure several questions if I can address them if I don’t let me know.
We look at capacity not only capacity sales individually but also as we add full requirement customers and bundling energy with capacity sales on that.
Into that capacity construct we’re actively selling into that market both on the retail and the wholesale sector but as far as the construct we work actively with Miso to form that.
We were hoping to push the construct needs from a one-year to a multiple-year similar to what we’re seeing in PJM but yes.
I think your other question was as far as what we’re seeing for capacity prices in 2012 and ‘13? Correct.
Yeah I’ve got that Andy if I could be a help.
What we’re seeing out there right now for dollars per megawatt years in 2012 around $360 and in 2013 around $5300.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
This is Doug Fischer.
Thank you for participating in this call.
We look forward to meeting with many of you at the AGA Financial Forum in May in mid-May.
Let me remind you again that this call is available through May 12<sup>th</sup> on playback and for one year on our website.
Today’s press release includes instructions on listening to the playback.
You may also call or email the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer; media should call Susan Gallagher.
Our contact information is on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Second Quarter Earnings.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Douglas Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Voss; our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marty Lyons; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
The call will be available by telephone for one week to anyone who wishes to hear it by dialing a playback number.
The announcement you received in our news release include instructions for replaying the call by telephone.
The call is also being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at www.ameren.com.
This call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website to which we will refer during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with a brief overview of second quarter 2011 earnings and updated 2011 guidance followed by a discussion of recent regulatory and other business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of second quarter 2011 financial results and guidance as well as regulatory and financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here is Tom who will start on page three of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced second quarter 2011 core earnings of $0.59 per share compared to second quarter 2010 core earnings of $0.73 per share.
These results were on track with our expectations.
The decline in second quarter 2011 earnings compared to second quarter 2010 earnings reflected a 4% decrease in kilowatt hour sales to regulated utility native load customers.
The lower sales were due in part to milder temperatures through June.
Second quarter 2011 earnings also included a charge to earnings resulting from an April 2011 Missouri Public Service Commission order associated with our fuel adjustment clause or FAC.
You will remember from our first quarter call that a PSC order required the net margins associated with certain long-term partial requirement sales included in the FAC calculation and therefore be credited to customers.
Other factors reducing second quarter 2011 earnings included increased storm-related expenses higher property taxes as well as our higher effective income tax rate.
Factors that favorably contributed second quarter 2011 earnings compared to second quarter 2010 included rate increases the absence of a nuclear refueling and maintenance outage at our Callaway energy center and lower interest expense.
Turning to page four.
We were challenged by an unusually large number of storms in the first half of this year but in every instance in Illinois and in Missouri our employees responded aggressively and effectively to quickly and safely restore service and meet our customer’s expectations.
Our management team also took action during the quarter to align client spending with business conditions.
Further while we estimate that about half of the second quarter 2011 decline in electric sales to native load customers compared to the second quarter of 2010 was due to milder weather economic conditions and customer’s conservation efforts have also impacted sales.
As a result of our first half sales trends we have lowered our weather normalized sales growth expectations for the remainder of the year.
To offset these reduced sales expectations we have reduced our spending plans.
In addition we are taking actions to better align our overall spending with rate orders and related regulatory policies.
As a result today we’re able to essentially reaffirm our 2011 core earnings guidance with a narrow range of $2.30 to $2.55 per share.
This narrowed guidance incorporates the impacts of our recently concluded Missouri rate case.
And I would note that this guide also assumes normal weather conditions for the second half of 2011.
So far we are on track for a very hot summer.
We also remain on track to generate positive free cash flow this year.
Marty will provide more details on our earnings and cash flow guidance in a moment.
Moving to page five.
I would like to provide an update on our compliance plans recently proposed and recently finalized environmental regulations.
We have completed our initial review of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule or Casper which was issued in July of 2011 and have updated our strategy and capital expenditure estimates for meeting the requirements of this rule the Illinois multi-pollutant standard and the proposed hazardous air pollutant maximum achievement control technology or HAPs-MACT.
Casper requires significant reductions in sulfur dioxide or SO2 and nitrogen oxide or NOx emissions beginning in 2012 with additional reductions required in 2014.
Casper standards for reduced SO2 emissions were generally in line with the rules we expected the EPA to adopt.
With the standards for reduced NOx emissions were more stringent than we had expected.
For many years we have proactively worked to reduce our emissions of both SO2 and NOx in innovative and cost effective ways to improve air quality and keep generation costs low.
These steps have included making modifications to our energy centers several years ago to burn low sulfur coal.
NOx emissions have been lowered through the use of low NOx burners stage combustion over-fire air systems combustion control technology selective catalytic reduction and rich reagent selective non-catalytic reduction systems.
Recently we’ve installed a total of five scrubbers with three at our merchant generation energy centers in Illinois and two at our regulated energy centers in Missouri.
Just last year we put into service wet scrubbers at our Missouri Sue energy center at a total cost of approximately $600 million.
These proactive steps have significantly reduced our SO2 and NOx emissions over time and offered us greater flexibility as we analyze and explore options for compliance with these new rules.
For our Missouri operations compliance with these more stringent SO2 emission reduction levels might have required costly new equipment by 2014 or forced us to significantly reduce generation levels at our energy centers absent these proactive steps.
However today I’m very pleased to announce that at our Missouri regulated operations we’re moving ahead with the third option to meet the stringent environmental standards for SO2 emissions the purchase of ultra-low sulfur coal.
We recently entered into a coal purchase contract for approximately 90 million tons of ultra-low sulfur coal to be delivered between 2012 and 2017 at fair market prices.
Not only is the purchase of this coal consistent with our expected coal supply needs to serve our Missouri customers.
But most importantly this strategy will entirely eliminate the need for dry sorbent injection or fabric filters and will allow us to delay the installation of additional scrubbers in our Missouri fleet until after 2017.
We have also entered into additional rail transportation contracts at market rates to deliver coal supplied under the new coal purchase contract through 2017.
This compliance strategy is a win for our customers our shareholders and the State of Missouri.
As a result of this strategy we will be able to avoid estimated rate increases for our customers of approximately 15% to 20% by 2017 that might otherwise have been required to meet the SO2 emission standards of this rule.
We believe that this strategy will benefit the State of Missouri by keeping Ameren Missouri’s electric rates among the most competitive in the nation helping the State better retain and attract new businesses.
As a result of this strategy we’re able to reduce our planned Missouri capital expenditures for the period 2011 to 2015 by approximately $500 million compared to our first quarter 2011 10-Q disclosures.
This reduction primarily reflects the removal of scrubbers for two of our generating units from our five year capital expenditure estimates.
This strategy also meaningfully reduces potential increases in operations and maintenance expenses related to meeting the SO2 emissions standards of this rule.
Overall this strategy provides us greater flexibility to manage our spending as we seek to combat regulatory lag and earn a fair return on our investments in Missouri.
Moving to our merchant generation business in Illinois.
Our SO2 compliance strategy continues to include the already operating scrubbers at our Duck Creek and Coffeen energy centers as well as two scrubbers at our Newton energy center.
However we no longer plan to installed dry sorbent injection our DSI at our Joppa energy center.
Instead we will use DSI at our Edwards energy center in conjunction with the addition of a new baghouse to achieve overall system compliance.
Like the two scrubbers at Newton this baghouse has been included in our previously disclosed compliance and spending plans.
As I mentioned a moment ago the new CSAPR standards for NOX emission reductions are more stringent than we or the industry at large had expected and the required reductions must be achieved beginning in just five months on January 1 2012.
Both in our Missouri regulated operations and in our merchant generation business we are evaluating all options for compliance so at this time we do not expect that the ultimate plans will materially increase our capital expenditure requirements over the next five years.
We will update you when we firm up our compliance plans for the NOX component of the CSAPR rule.
As a result of our continued optimization of environmental compliance plans and reductions of discretionary non-environmental spending our merchant generation team has reduced our merchant generation 2011 to 2015 planned capital expenditures by approximately $200 million from the level we provided you in our first quarter of 2011 10-Q disclosures.
We are happy to have greater clarity on some of our environmental compliance plans and we are pleased to report anticipated savings versus previous cost estimates but it is critical that policy makers carefully consider the cumulative economic cost of complying with these environmental rules in relation to their benefits.
We will continue to proactively work to help shape pending rules so we can realize progress on the environmental front yet minimize to the greatest extent possible the impact of these rules on our operations and on our customers.
Moving now to page six.
I would like to discuss recent and pending developments across our regulatory jurisdictions.
In Missouri the Public Service Commission recently issued a decision on our electric rate case authorizing a $173 million rate increase.
In general we consider the rate order to be fair and reasonable in most respects.
Importantly it included in rates our full investment in the Sioux scrubbers and related operating costs and property taxes.
Further the decision maintained our existing fuel adjustment clause as well as the vegetation management infrastructure inspection pension and OPEB cost trackers all of which are important cost recovery mechanisms.
The allowed return on equity of 10.2% was a bit better than the level we received in our prior order and is close to the national average.
However it is still below the level we consider appropriate in part because of the regulatory lag we experience in Missouri.
In addition while the commission continued to permit full recovery of our energy efficiency investments we would have liked them to make more progress on the regulatory treatment of such investments to better align our companies and our customer’s interests in energy efficiency.
Finally we are clearly disappointed in the Missouri Commissions disallowance of $89 million of cost related to the rebuilding of the Taum Sauk energy center.
The opportunity to seek recovery of these costs was consistent with our settlement with the State of Missouri which allowed for costs for enhancements or costs we would have occurred absent the reservoir breach.
We believe this disallowance was not supported by the record in the case and we have appealed the matter to the Missouri Court of Appeals Western District.
Our filing at the Court of Appeals is consistent with newly enacted Missouri legislation that eliminates the ability of any party to stay a commission order while the appeal is pending.
As we have stated we will take appropriate actions to align our overall spending both operating and capital with this electric rate order in its policies it reflects.
With better alignment of our spending to both this order and our sales growth expectations we expect to make significant progress toward closing the gap between our earned and allowed returns on equity at Missouri – Ameren Missouri in 2012 from the 2011 levels.
Before I finish my discussion on Missouri I want you to be aware we filed the request in late July with the Missouri Public Service Commission for an accounting order.
If approved this accounting order would allow us to defer for potential future recovery $36 million of fixed costs not recovered as a result of the loss of random aluminum load due to a severe ice storm that occurred in January of 2009.
At this time there is no timetable set for the Commission to consider this matter.
Turning now to Illinois regulatory matters we filed our rebuttal testimony in our pending electric and natural gas slurry rate cases on July 26th.
We are now requesting a $90 million annual increase in these delivery rates.
Recall that our filing is based on a 2012 test year to provide an improved opportunity to earn a fair return on investment.
Marty will provide more on the status of these cases.
On the Illinois legislative front we continue to be proactively engaged in supporting Senate Bill 1652 The Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act in late May the Bill passed both chambers of the Illinois General Assembly with strong majority.
The bill is expected to be forward to Governor Quinn shortly and he will then have 60 days to act on it.
If the governor vetoes the bill we will continue to work for an override in the legislature’s fall veto session.
This legislation would benefit the State of Illinois and its electric customers by providing a more predictable rate making system.
The additional investments required by the legislation would modernize and upgrade electric systems and improve service reliability.
These investments would also create additional employment opportunities within and outside of Ameren Illinois.
The more predictable rate making system incorporates formulaic ratemaking for qualifying utilities including a rate of return on equity of 600 basis points above an average of 30 year treasury bond yields.
It allows for annual adjustment of rates while still providing appropriate regulatory oversight by the Illinois Commerce Commission to insure that the investments made in the costs incurred are prudent.
Finally moving to the federal jurisdiction in May the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved requested rate treatments for more than $1 billion of our planned transmission projects.
We anticipate that the Board of Directors of the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator will prove several of our projects in its December meeting and we are set to move ahead with engineering and construction upon approval.
While we expect the FERC’s recent order Number 1000 to have various impacts on transmission planning and cost allocation going forward we do not expect that the order will delay or impede our plans to construct the projects that are now before MISO.
Another matter before the FERC is MISO’s July filing of a plan to replace the current monthly construct for the capacity power market with an annual construct.
This plan is in response to FERC’s June 2010 order directing MISO to develop a plan that incorporates vocational capacity market mechanisms into its resource adequacy plan.
We were studying MISO’s filing and will file comments at FERC this September.
That said we continue to support a multi-year procurement construct one that is efficient and effective sending appropriate price signals for the development of new generation and the removal of barriers between markets.
While MISO’s filing is a step forward we believe it falls short of these objectives and we will continue to work with MISO on further developing the market.
Before I turn the call over to Marty I want to reaffirm our dedication to maintaining a sharp focus on customer satisfaction and on managing our expenditures in a disciplined manner.
We remain committed to seeking constructive regulatory frameworks and outcomes that allow us to recover our costs in a timely fashion and that provide a reasonable opportunity to earn a fair return on our investments.
These regulatory frameworks provide us with the necessary cash flows to invest in our energy infrastructure to meet our customer’s expectations and create jobs in both Missouri and Illinois and at both our regulated and merchant generation businesses we remain dedicated to operating in a safe reliable and environmentally responsible manner.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to page seven of the presentation today we reported second quarter 2011 earnings in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP of $0.57 per share compared to second quarter 2010 GAAP earnings of $0.64 per share.
Second quarter 2011 core earnings were $0.59 per share compared with second quarter 2010 core earnings of $0.73 per share.
Core results excluded net unrealized mark-to-market losses from the second quarters of 2011 and 2010 of $0.02 and $0.09 per share respectively.
These mark-to-market impacts are primarily related to non-qualified power and fuel related hedges.
Moving now to page eight we highlight key drivers of the variance between core earnings per share for the second quarter of 2011 and for the second quarter of 2010.
Factors adversely affecting the comparison included the decline in margins at our regulated utilities of $0.14 per share after excluding rate changes and net of certain related expenses compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Five of these $0.14 were due to milder temperatures compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Another $0.05 were due to the previously discussed charge for the Missouri Public Service Commission fuel adjustment clause related order and while mentioning this charge I do want to let you know that we have appealed this PSC order to the courts.
Regarding weather cooling degree days were 13% fewer in the second quarter of 2011 than in the very hot second quarter of 2010.
Expenses for the numerous 2011 storms that Tom mentioned earlier reduced earnings by $0.04 per share.
Tax related items reduced second quarter 2011 earnings by $0.04 per share.
Half of this variance reflected higher property taxes and the other half was due to a higher effective income tax rate.
The second quarter 2011 earnings comparison was also negatively impacted by reduced equity related capitalized financing costs of $0.02 per share.
The lower AFUDC equity primarily reflected the 2010 completion of the scrubbers at Ameren Missouri’s few Energy Center.
Lower margins for our merchant generation business segment reduced earnings by $0.02 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
This was primarily the result of lower generation levels and higher fuel and transportation related costs.
Key factors favorably affecting the core earnings variance between the quarters included lower plant operations and maintenance expenses.
This had $0.08 per share impact.
This lower plant O&amp;M reflects the absence of the Callaway Nuclear refueling outage in the second quarter of 2011 last year’s refueling outage reduced second quarter 2010 earnings by $0.11 per share.
Callaway’s typically refueled every 18 months with the 2011 refueling scheduled for this fall.
Planned outages at some of our fossil plants lead to operations and maintenance expenses which mitigated the Callaway reduction.
Rate changes net of certain related expenses increased second quarter 2011 earnings by $0.04 per share.
These rate changes included electric rate increases in Illinois and Missouri both effective in 2010 and a gas delivery rate increase in Missouri effective in early 2011.
A final key factor favorably impacting the comparison of second quarter 2011 earnings to those of the second quarter of 2010 was lower interest expense of $0.03 per share.
This reflected reduced levels of both long-term and short-term debt.
As Tom mentioned we have essentially reaffirmed our 2011 core earnings guidance within a narrow range of $2.30 to $2.55 per share.
This reflects a narrowing of core guidance for our combined Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois segments to $2.10 to $2.25 per share from our previous range of $2.05 to $2.30.
The core guidance range for our merchant generation segment has also been narrowed to $0.20 to $0.30 per share from our prior range of $0.15-$0.30.
The $0.05 per share increase from the lower end of the range reflects better than expected year-to-date margins and lower costs.
Before I leave the subject of guidance I would like to note the earnings impact of the July Missouri PSC rate order disallowance of $89 million of our Tom Sauk investment.
As a result of this disallowance we will take a third quarter 2011 charge estimated at $0.23 per share.
This charge is excluded from our 2011 core earnings guidance but will of course be included in our GAAP results.
As I close our discussion of 2011 earnings guidance I need to remind you that our guidance assumes normal weather for the second half of the year.
Further any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will affect our GAAP earnings but are excluded from our GAAP earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses for the full year.
Core earnings and guidance exclude any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses.
Further our earnings guidance for 2011 is subject to the risks and uncertainties outlined first or referred to in today’s press release including the forward-looking statement section of that release.
Turning now to page nine and our recently decided Missouri Electric rate case.
Here we provide some of the details of the Missouri Public Service Commission’s July order.
As Tom mentioned we were authorized to increase electric rates effective July 31st by a total of $173 million with 121 million of this being for non-fuel related revenues.
This compares to our revised total rate increase request of 211 million with 159 million being for non-fuel related expenses or excuse me non-fuel related revenues.
The decision was based on a 10.2% return on equity which comprised 52.2% of capitalization.
Further the order reflected an electric rate base of $6.6 billion.
The decision continued our fuel adjustment clause and its current 95% pass through to customers of deviations between actual net fuel costs and the level of net fuel costs included in base rates.
Other key aspects of this order are provided on this page.
Before we leave our discussion of the Missouri rate order I would note with new rates now effective we have stopped deferring depreciation and interest financing costs associated with the approximate $600 million Sioux scrubber investment.
Sioux scrubber depreciation will be approximately $21 million annually.
Turning now to page 10 and our pending delivery rate cases in Illinois.
As previously mentioned we filed our rebuttal testimony on July 26 2011.
Our combined electric and gas rate increase request has been lowered to $90 million annually from our initial request of $111 million primarily reflecting lower requested returns on equity and a correction related to insurance expense.
We are now requesting returns on equity of 11% for electric delivery and 10.75% for natural gas delivery.
Each of these numbers is a 25 basis point reduction from our initial request reflecting an updated assessment of capital market conditions.
On June 29th before we filed a rebuttal testimony the Illinois Commerce Commission staff and other interveners filed their direct testimony in the rate cases.
While these parties positions will be updated in the rebuttal testimony which is due August 23rd this page outlines their initial position in the cases.
The ICC staff recommended a combined revenue increase of $6 million based on electric rate decrease and a natural gas rate increase.
Of the $84 million difference between their position and our rebuttal position return on equity is by far the most material at $39 million.
The second largest difference relates to the staffs view of savings and costs related to the recent merger of our three Illinois utilities.
This represents a $19 million variance.
As you can see on page 10 we’ve also noted a few of the other differences between the staff and our positions.
Moving into Page 11 we outline key points of the Attorney Generals and Citizen Utility Board’s initial positions as well as those of the Illinois industrial energy consumers.
The Administrative Law Judges are scheduled to issue their proposed order on November 15th of this year with an Illinois Commerce Commission’s decision expected in mid-January 2012.
Turning now to Page 12.
I would like to provide updated 2011 projected cash flow information.
We now expect to achieve free cash flow of approximately $225 million up from our prior guidance of approximately 100 million.
The largest single reason for the improved cash flow outlook is the $45 million of cash flow proceeds we received from the sale in June of a remaining interest in the Columbia Energy Center.
This amount is netted in the capital expenditure line.
Recall from our 2011 cash from operations includes an incremental contribution to Ameren Illinois’ postretirement benefit plan of $100 million which we plan to make this month.
On this page we also have a breakdown of our consolidated capitalization which is now solid 52% equity.
Further we provide a breakdown of our debt balances by reporting segment as of June 30 2011.
On page 13 we update Ameren’s five-year capital expenditure outlook to incorporate the previously discussed improvements in our capital spending plans.
We now project that the four year 2012 through 2015 cumulative capital spending will range between 5.2 billion and 6 billion with an annual target range between 1.3 billion and 1.5 billion.
This brings down the midpoint of our capital spending range for the 2012 to 2015 period by about $400 million versus our first quarter 2011 10-Q disclosures.
On this page we also provide a percentage breakdown of our five-year infrastructure investment plan for our regulated businesses by jurisdiction and type.
As a percentage of planned investment you’ll note that FERC regulated transmission has grown.
This is in part due to reduced spending expectations and other categories coupled however with accelerated transmission spending.
We now expect to invest approximately 1.15 billion over the five-year period to harden and replace existing aging transmission infrastructure as well as to expand the transmission system.
Moving now to page 14 we outline our expected capital expenditures for our merchant generation business for each of the next five years showing the breakdown between expenditures for maintenance and for environmental compliance.
These merchant generation numbers are included in the total Ameren-wide capital expenditures that I discussed a few minutes ago.
Of course we will continue to review and adjust our merchant generation spending plans in light of evolving outlooks for power prices delivered fuel costs environmental standards and compliance technologies among other factors.
Moving now to page 15 we provide an update of our forward power sales and hedge data.
As you can see we have significant hedges in place which are at power prices above current market levels.
We now expect our merchant generation business to generate approximately 29.5 million megawatt-hours in 2011.
These 29.5 million megawatt-hours include 100% of the expected generation of the Electric Energy Inc.
or Joppa Energy Center a facility in which Ameren owns an 80% interest.
For 2011 approximately 27.5 million megawatt-hours of this generation are sold or hedged at an average price of $45 per megawatt-hour.
For 2012 we have hedged approximately 19.5 million megawatt-hours at price of $47 per megawatt-hour.
Further for 2013 we’ve hedged approximately 10 million megawatt-hours at an average price of $41 per megawatt-hour.
Our capacity sales are approximately 80% hedged for 2011 approximately 54% hedged for 2012 and approximately 26% hedged for 2013.
You will note that while capacity hedge percentages stayed flat or rose slightly expected revenues dropped a bit in each year.
This is due to the sale of the Columbia Energy Center which had provided capacity revenues offset in part by increased capacity revenues associated with our Elgin Energy Center which is located in the PJM West power market.
Turning now to page 16 we update our Merchant Generation segments fuel and related transportation hedges.
For 2011 we’ve hedged approximately 29 million-megawatt hours at about $23 per megawatt hour.
This cost is approximately $0.50 per megawatt hour lower than the figure we disclosed in May of 2011.
For 2012 we’ve hedged approximately 18 million-megawatt hours at about 2350 per megawatt hour which is approximately $1 per megawatt hour lower than our May disclosure and for 2013 we have now hedged approximately 7 million-megawatt hours at about $26.50 per megawatt hour which is approximately $0.50 per megawatt hour lower than the previous disclosures.
This hedging information completes our prepared remarks.
We will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Can you hear me? Yes Julien we can.
Hi good morning.
So I wanted to ask on your comments regarding environmental CapEx.
It seems like a pretty favorable move here to reduce it in Missouri.
Just curious to see or get some more flavor as to exactly how you were able to do that.
What is it about the coal what is it about the technology of the plants or perhaps what is it about the policy that’s changed quarter-over-quarter that gave you the flexibility here? Hi Julien this Warner Baxter.
I would say a couple things gave us the flexibility.
One frankly is really what we’ve been doing for several years and that is really converting our plants to burn the low sulfur coal.
But secondly the thing that gave us quite a bit of flexibility was the proactive installation of our Sioux scrubbers which we just installed late last year.
That gave us the option to take a look at this ultra-low sulfur coal strategy and consequently in looking at that and looking at our system we’re able to purchase this coal through 2017 and execute not only our coal purchase which is necessary for our customers’ needs but frankly is going to avoid significant capital expenditures for things like fabric filters as well as DSI and brought significant savings for our customers.
So I wouldn’t say it’s a meaningful change.
It’s something we’ve been doing for some time to try and anticipate where these regulations were going to come and we were able to execute the strategy successfully.
Just as a follow-up is it that you’re using treated coal of any sorts to avoid any kind of mercury complications? No.
Simply put we’re using ultra low sulfur coal and we’re able to enter into a contract for the term that Tom had laid out a little bit earlier today.
And just a clarification.
Is 2017 just the term of the contractor is there some meaningful regulatory change at that point in time that would alter this decision? No meaningful change in the regulatory framework.
It is – that was the term of the contract.
Of course we have the option to look even and purchase ultra-low sulfur coal beyond that should we want to but nothing beyond that.
That was just the appropriate term we felt to enter into the contract given that the – what we – we renewed not only were the regulations were but also obviously the tenure of such a long-term contract.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Paz with Banc of America Merill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Thanks for the environmental disclosures.
It’s very helpful.
Just had some questions.
What are your environmental plans for the Joppa Meredosia and Huntsville plants? Well I think overall what we’ve sketched out is the plans for compliance as we said on the call with the Multi-Pollutant Standard as well as the Cross State Air Pollution Rules as well as HAP MACT et cetera.
Our compliance plans have very much focused on keeping our overall fleet compliant and I think when we look at these rules as we outlined on the call the thing we’re still obviously taking a look at are the NOX compliance components of the – excuse me the CSAPR rule.
So as it relates to the rules and it relates to our plans our focus has been keeping all of those plants intact.
Of course when you look at the Multi-Pollutant Standard rule you look at CSAPR you look in at fleet wide averages and so controls on certain power plants say other than those ones can help to keep the whole fleet running.
Okay.
But before you guys were intending to use DSI Joppa and now you are not so I guess should we assume what...
Yes sure.
I think with respect to Joppa I think what you’re looking at there is simply moving the DSI from there to Edwards to get the compliance you need on the sulfur dioxide and mete your fleet wide emission reductions in a more efficient way where you’re taking advantage of that bag house that we have planned for Edwards.
So the DSI is moving from Jappa to Edwards but as you look at the Jappa plant for things like HAP MACT in particular matter control you’re probably still looking at things like ESP upgrades and the like.
ESP upgrades okay.
And how much does the DSI raise costs even on a per ton or per megawatt hour basis? Yeah I don’t have the based on a per megawatt hour.
There certainly will be some O&amp;M expense related to that DSI but I don’t have the per ton number with me.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Erica Piserchia with Wunderlich Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Hi thanks.
Just a couple of questions.
First just I guess on the environmental to continue with that I guess you mentioned you’re considering some options as far as NOx control are concerned and I’m just wondering if you can clarify are you talking about refined coal options on that side.
I know Julien was asking about the Sox side but I know there’s some options on the refined coal side on NOx to treat that and derive some tax benefits and such out of that.
Can you just provide a little bit more color there on options you’re considering? Hi Erica.
This is Warner Baxter.
I can speak for the Missouri side of the house.
We are looking at a variety of options.
Some of those options would not include purchasing different types of coal from a NOx perspective.
What we would be looking at would be things like doing some more over-fired area that some of our power plants potentially some reinjections.
Of course we now have the ability to potentially look at NOx allowances with this potential – with this rule.
Those types of things and of course you can always look at SCRs.
All those things are I guess part of the portfolio of things that we’ll look at.
We’re going to continue to assess those through the course of this year and make a determination towards the end of this year and execute that but it would not include a different purchase of coal.
Okay.
On the merchant side of the house Erica we already have substantial controls that are in place.
We have low NOx burners in all of our non-cycle plants over fire air at our cycling plants combustion optimization technology we have selective catalytic reduction at Duck Creek Coffine Edwards so we already have substantial controls in place for reduction of NOx because of course the Illinois multi-pollutant standard has been requiring us to reduce those emissions and positions us well for compliance with these Casper rules but we are still looking at additional options like selective non-catalytic reduction combustion optimization some of the things that Warner talked about as well.
Got you okay.
And then on the sales side you mentioned you adjusted your weather normalized expectations for sales demand.
Can you share what level of sales growth you’re now assuming? Sure Erica.
Thanks for the question.
I recall you asking a question about this last quarter.
As we’ve gone through the year what we certainly have seen is that while weather has played a role as we talked about we did have much milder temperatures this year than last.
They’ve been warmer than normal this year but certainly lower than last.
We had a very hot June last year.
And we estimate weather and strip that out.
For the six months year-to-date we are still seeing declining sales trends as it relates to our residential and commercial categories.
And so we have revised our expectations for the year.
I think Erica you’ll recall that we had talked about some very modest growth plus or minus 1% expectations in residential commercial when we talked last quarter but as we’ve gone through the six months and looked at the data we felt it more prudent to lower our forecast and what we’ve now got built in is sales declines of around 1% on residential with the expectation of really no growth in commercial this year.
We’re still seeing overall for the company positive trends in industrial primarily on the Illinois side of our business and we’re still expecting to see low to mid single-digit kind of growth in industrial but we felt it prudent to lower those sales forecast expectations and again as we talked about align our spending plans to make sure we’re able to deliver on the earnings guidance that we’ve provided so we have built those in.
Looking back at last year it’s interesting.
Last year we had pretty solid growth in 2010 over 2009 levels residential came in about 1.2% up commercial about 2.6% up so what we’re seeing here in the six months we feel like we need to adjust to and we’ll continue to assess it.
Okay.
And just maybe one last kind of bigger picture question here.
Can you share any thoughts on where you expect you can earn on an ROE basis this year or maybe put another way what sort of what coming out of this Missouri case and obviously the Illinois case but sort of what maybe at least on the Missouri side is kind of left to help you reduce regulatory lag that you’d have to seek in a future case? Sure Erica.
Let me take a stab at that.
If you look at our guidance range that we’ve got we’ve provided $2.10 $2.25 for the regulated portion of our business.
I think that implies an ROE range in the neighborhood of 8.3% to 8.9% and so if you take the midpoint of that for example obviously you’re right around 8% 8.6%.
As you look ahead we’ve just completed the Missouri rate case so we’re only getting a partial benefit of that rate case this year and as you point out we’ve got a rate case pending in Illinois that would adjust rates in January of 2012 and of course that’s based on a forecasted test year.
And also our commitment to continue to align our spending to the overall business conditions we face.
We are focused on improving our earned returns and on the call we talked about for instance in Missouri expecting to significantly narrow that gap between our earned returns this year and our allowed returns so that’s what we’re focused on and just as a metric I mean if we improve the earned returns from say that mid-point I gave you around 8.6% by 100 basis points to 9.6% that adds about $0.20 to $0.25 of earnings year-over-year to the guidance that range that I gave you.
Right.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
On the Casper rule you guys mentioned that it was more stringent than you thought it was but that you didn’t expect NOx CapEx to be meaningfully higher as a result of it or are you expecting any difference in operational costs and I’m talking particularly on the merchant side with respect to compliance with that or SO2 or is there any sense that what we might see there in terms of a potential increase on operational expenses? Yeah I don’t think Paul thanks for the question.
I wouldn’t say we’re expecting any operational cost increases either.
We are as I said before we’ve had good controls in place over time to reduce our NOx emissions.
We are looking at a low cost kind of options like the selective non-catalytic reduction combustion optimization and really evaluating all options and other options obviously have to do with certainly you could look at reduced levels of generation and low margin periods or purchases of allowances which right now I would say we don’t have much of a clear indication of what the value of those kinds of things are going to be but we’ll certainly look at all options on the table.
Okay.
So we look at this $200 million reduction.
It’s kind of meaningful.
You guys are lowering CapEx.
Is that just because you guys have been invented and you found things or is there I guess should we think of any change in the profit margin outlook do you see what I’m saying? I just want to make sure it’s a tradeoff here? There really wasn’t a tradeoff between those $200 million of reductions and profitability or margins and what the team has continued to do over time is look at spending plans both for environmental and non-environmental and some of the environmental what the team continues to do is to further design work do further value engineering work and seek ways to drive costs out of the plans that we have in place and on the non-environmental same thing.
Take a look at the planned spending we have in light of overall business conditions and look for opportunities to reduce bit plan spending and I’d note though when you look at our spending plans and you look at some of the investments we’re making this year we are still investing in our power plants and making what we consider to be prudent necessary investments to keep those plants running well and in fact this year they have been running very well.
Okay that’s just great.
Now let me ask you on the MISO capacity thing do you guys see any meaningful increase in capacity value as a result of what came out or you did mentioned that you weren’t completely happy with it but do you see any potential upside from that and also if you don’t get a potential upside from it can you do what these other guys have done and go to PJM? Yeah I think is that – this is Marty.
I’ll take the point about the capacity price themselves.
I think this is not all that we wanted to be as we outlined in the call and we don’t necessarily believe that this proposed construct which isn’t multiyear number one and number two we don’t think we’ll necessarily send the right price signals over time for investment in new capacity.
So we do believe that it is however a good first foundational step for moving forward.
We’re certainly going to provide comments to FERC with respect to MYSO’s proposal and obviously this isn’t the final rule.
We’ll see what comes out of FERC.
Okay.
Yeah.
And this is Tom Voss.
We also hope that we’ll get portable that we’ll be able to put our capacity across markets and across seems and so we’re going to work with MYSO on that option also.
Okay great.
And then just finally on the fuel FAC flow through what’s the outlook for that going forward in terms of the impact on earnings? Yeah I think that – I believe what you’re asking about is the...
The $0.05? Yeah the $0.05.
So what that related to was during a discrete historical period while Noranda Aluminum was down and we are seeing other industrial sales declines we had made some sales off system which the margins were held outside of the fuel adjustment clause what the Commission ordered was that certain of those revenues beflow through the fuel adjustment clause and so that was about $17 million $0.05 charge.
There was Paul one period subsequent to that – period subsequent of that were similarly we held certain revenues outside the fact there’s about another $25 million exposure there the Commission has not ruled on that at this time.
However beyond that there isn’t any exposure because after the last rate case we had all of those types of revenues from those types of sales were through the rate making process actually included in our base – net base fuel cost that go into the fuel adjustment clause.
So it was really a finite or discrete period in time.
It’s not something that is an exposure moving forward.
Then why not treat it like Taum Sauk and make it a one – and make it a non-core item I guess is what I’m wondering.
I mean is it just a judgment call? I’m wondering is there any reason not to do that though I guess? Well sure it’s a judgment call.
I think what we felt like however was that in prior periods we had reported these revenues as part of our core earnings in revenues and we felt like the appropriate thing to do then was to – as we backed these revenues out essentially because they were flowing through the fuel adjustment clause that we would include those in our core earnings but certainly it’s a judgment item.
When you look at the Taum Sauk charge that we have it’s certainly large and unusual in nature.
It’s a non-operating item and again in terms of differentiation there are no prior earnings recognized for Taum Sauk.
Thanks for the clarity.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Howard with Prospector Partners.
Please proceed with your question your line is live.
Hi.
Just wanted to check a couple things.
This may have been kind of implied in some of your other answers but just the decision to use the ultra-low PRB Coal in Missouri versus in Illinois I guess just wanted to kind of clarify the reasons is it really just the technologies in the various plants that is different enough so that it works in Missouri versus it wasn’t a decision to do in Illinois? This is Marty.
Thanks good question.
It does have somewhat to do with the technology.
Warner talked about in Missouri certainly having the benefit of the Sioux scrubbers on the merchant side we have more extensive scrubber equipment in place with scrubbers at Coffin Duck Creek scrubber and we certainly are using low sulfur coal and plan to use low sulfur coal there as well.
So there is a difference in some of the technologies that’s been deployed.
I would also note that the other differentiation is that in the merchant side of our fleet we’re also complying with the multi-pollutant standard so you’ve got the over layoff those rules on top of CSAPR that impacts your overall compliance decisions.
And lastly when you look at the sales profile in Missouri we certainly have steady regulated load growth to meet over time and in the merchant business we do seek to line the hedging between our power sales and our fuel hedges over time so those are some of the differentiating things that we think about.
Okay.
So we can’t say okay anybody out there in the country whose got some new state-of-the-art scrubbers that stayed like the Sioux plant can be sort of meet these requirements with ultra-low sulfur there is lot of these other factors going in there? Yeah I think that there are a number of factors that go in there.
Obviously the lower sulfur content in your coal is going to help you in terms of your overall emissions but what makes sense for any particular generator I think is a function of equipment they have in place and the various cost tradeoff they have.
Okay and then for the ultra-low sulfur how much of a premium is that in ballpark compared to what might be standard PRB coal? Hi this is Warner Baxter.
Certainly we don’t disclose the terms of our contracts but I’ll tell you that those arrived at fair market prices.
But I guess is it significant? I don’t is it something that’s tradable or I’m just trying to get a feel for is this something you have to pay a 10% premium on or some kind of ballpark? Yeah as Warner said we aren’t going to comment on the specific pricing related to the contract.
Okay.
Anyway then your merchant fuel hedges it looks like the new hedges were all kind of at lower prices.
Is that just market prices declining was there some other causes to get you better terms compared to the previous fuel hedges? Sure.
It is really related to market prices versus the coal costs that are embedded in the hedges that we put in place previously and so for I’d say a couple of quarters we’ve been suggesting that as we layer on additional hedges based on market prices broker quotes that you could go out and see that we would expect that the average price as we layered in additional hedges would come down.
As we sit here today I would say that those broker quote prices still look to be a little bit below the pricing that we have in the embedded contracts a little more than below as it relates to 2013 frankly where the embedded costs are a bit higher because of the mix of some of the coal purchases that we actually have in the embedded hedges so what you see on that fuel slide is as we’ve added megawatt hours hedged in terms of our coal its brought the blended average price down.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Hi guys.
Thanks for the update on Missouri capital spending.
Really two questions there.
One do you think the lower capital spending likely reduces regulatory lag and there for increases your ability to earn your authorized ROE in Missouri? Michael this is Warner.
With regard to any type of spending especially with regard to capital expenditures to the extent you can mitigate especially mandated capital spending that tends to have a more favorable direction from a regulatory lag perspective but of course when you’re doing these major environmental projects much of that is done and the key is making sure that you align the timing of any of these major environmental controls with when you put rates into place so there are actions you can take to mitigate that regulatory lag just as we did with the subscriber.
We used unique approach to really mitigate some of that regulatory likes.
So in a bigger picture it is helpful and no doubt and certainly it’s a tremendous benefit for our customers.
This is Doug Fischer.
We have time for one more question.
We want to respect some of the other calls coming right after us.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with the State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Dan.
First I was wondering on the Taum Sauk appeal.
What was the revenue requirement related to the Taum Sauk disallowance? Hello Dan.
This is Warner Baxter.
That impact was approximately $11 million from a revenue requirement standpoint in total.
And what kind of timeframe would you expect on the appeal? Is there any way to know? Yeah with regard to the appeal to the courts there is no set timeframe on that.
Typically it is several months and we’re not surprised to see that decision move out into 2012 but I can’t predict a lot of it depends upon the court’s docket in front of them and so we filed immediately as soon as we’re able to do that and so we look forward to presenting our case before the courts here in the near future.
And then you mentioned that you had I think a $0.11 positive benefit from no Callaway outage and with the scope and scale of the upcoming outage be similar that we would expect about an $0.11 hit in the second half comparison? Dan this is Warner Baxter.
I would say generally the scope and overall timing of the outage would be consistent and of course in any given outage you have sometimes the difference between the level of capital expenditures in O&amp;M but by and large it’s probably roughly in that ballpark.
Okay.
And then just on the July weather I assume it was a lot hotter this year than it was last year; is that correct? Yeah it was Dan.
It’s one of the – I’d say one of the hottest Summers in the last 40 plus years so it was very warm in July and August has started out pretty warm as well.
Okay.
And then I guess the last thing I was wondering was on industrial sales that looked for either slightly negative or flat in the second quarter.
Did you have any impact from say auto plants or anything there or what are you looking for or seeing? Yeah it wasn’t so much auto plants as you look through the various categories one that’s certainly sticks out in Missouri and Illinois is some that related to I’d say the building or construction industry like cement certainly popped out general manufacturing.
Some refining some of which we think is really temporary in nature in terms of just some specific plant outages in our service territory in the second quarter that we think will again short-term in nature that will be back online in the third quarter.
So I think some of what we saw looks like it might be a function of the economy and others looks like spotty and had to do with just specific outages at certain major industrial customers so that’s kind of what we’re seeing.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
This is Doug.
I’d like to wrap up.
Thanks for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available through August 11th on playback and for one year on our website.
Today’s press release includes instructions on listening to the playback.
You may also call or email the contacts listed on the release financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Susan Gallagher.
Our contact information is on the press release we issued today.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you all for your participation.
Good day.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Third Quarter Earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentations.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Douglas Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Voss; our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marty Lyons; and other members of Ameren’s management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call will be available by telephone for one week to anyone who wishes to hear it by dialing a playback number.
The announcement you received in our news release include instructions for replaying the call by telephone.
This call is also being broadcast live on the internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our webcast – website at www.ameren.com.
This call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live call.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website to which we will refer during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors section in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with a brief overview of third quarter 2011 earnings and updated 2011 guidance followed by discussion of recent business and regulatory developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of third quarter 2011 financial results and guidance as well as updates on regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here is Tom who will start on page three of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced strong third quarter 2011 core earnings of $1.57 per share compared to third quarter 2010 core earnings of $1.40 per share.
The increase in three quarter 2011 core earnings compared to third quarter 2010 core earnings reflected Illinois and Missouri electric rate increases and lower non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses as a result of continued cost discipline.
Improvement in earnings was also due to lower interest expense driven by debt reduction and also weather that was slightly warmer than that of the year ago quarter.
These positive factors were partially offset by reduced margins in the merchant generation segment due to lower realized power prices and higher fuel and transportation related expenses.
While temperate in the third quarter of 2011 were not significantly different than those experienced in the third quarter of 2010 they were much warmer than normal.
Before I move on to discussion of earnings guidance I would like to comment on our operating performance during the third quarter of 2011.
I’m proud to report that our energy centers performed exceptionally well during the summer months.
Equivalent availability at our base load energy centers was a strong 94% and the net capacity factor was a strong 84% in the third quarter of 2011.
This performance included our Callaway nuclear energy center which operated continuously from its last refueling which ended in June of 2010 until the beginning of its current refueling in mid October 2011 a period of 489 days.
This was the facility’s second longest breaker-to-breaker run since it began operating in 1984.
Turning to page 4 reflecting our strong third quarter earnings today we’re raising our 2011 core earnings guidance range to $2.50 to $2.60 per share up from our prior range of $2.30 to $2.55 per share.
Martin will provide further details regarding our third quarter 2011 earnings and 2011 guidance later in this call.
Moving to page five we now expect 2011 positive free cash flow to reach approximately $325 million an increase of $100 billion from the estimate we provided on our second quarter conference call.
We have been using our free cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings.
This has included not only the June 2011 maturity of $150 million of Ameren Illinois Company long-term debt but also a significant amount of short-term debt.
In fact at September 30 2011 cash and equivalents exceeded short-term debt and we expect this also be the case at year end.
These reductions in debt contributed to a common equity ratio that stood at a solid 53.9% of total capitalization at the end of the third quarter.
Reflecting the steps we have taken over the last few years to strengthen our financial performance and position on October 14 2011 Ameren’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend payment to common shareholders of $0.40 per share a 3.9% increase over the prior quarterly dividend rate.
This new annualized equivalent rate of $1.60 per share is at level that is well covered by earnings and cash flows from our regulated business segments.
This new annualized rate represents a 7% payout of 2011 core earnings from our regulated business segments based on the midpoint of our guidance range.
Turning to page six.
In addition to the positive news I’ve shared with you regarding earnings cash flows and dividends I’m also able to report significant progress on important strategic initiatives.
This progress is the result of our focused and sustained efforts to improve the performance of our company for the mutual benefit of our investors and customers.
On several occasions I have stated that we’re committed to seeking and obtaining constructive regulatory frameworks that allow us to recover our costs in a timely fashion and then provide a reasonable opportunity to earn a fair return on our investments.
As important constructive regulatory frameworks provide us with a – as important constructive regulatory frameworks provide us with the necessary cash flows to invest in our energy infrastructure so we can meet our customer’s expectation and create good paying jobs in our communities.
I’m very pleased that just last week the Illinois General Assembly approved a new constructive regulatory framework that provides electric delivery utilities in that state with the opportunity to choose performance-based formula rate making.
The legislature enacted into law Senate Bill 1652 the Energy Infrastructure Monetization Act and approved a trailer bill that will amend Senate Bill 1652.
Governor Quinn has 60 days to act on the trailer bill.
If he does nothing by the end of the 60-day period the trailer bill becomes law.
If he vetoes the trailer bill we sent back to the house and senate for further consideration.
This legislation is a win for the economy of the State of Illinois a win for our Illinois Electric delivery customers and a win for our Ameren Illinois Utility.
Utilities will have the opportunity to benefit from more predictable rate making that will allow them to invest in their businesses receive timely cash flows from these investments and have greater confidence that they will be able to earn close to their allowed return on such investments.
This law is designed to create nearly 2 500 additional good paying jobs throughout the state.
And further the additional investments required of participating utilities should provide customers with improved service quality and reliability as well as long-term savings.
The legislation includes a number of customer protections and other benefits many of which are listed on this page.
These protections include regulatory oversight by the Illinois Commerce Commission to ensure that the investments made and costs incurred are prudent.
Page seven provides highlights of the new regulatory framework.
Ameren Illinois plans to withdraw its pending electric delivery rate case and is developing plans for filing for performance-based formula electric delivery rates under Senate Bill 1652.
However our pending gas delivery rate case will continue to move forward and Senate Bill 1652 does not apply to the gas utility business Moving to page eight of of course our commitment to earnings fair returns on our investments also extends to Missouri.
Ameren Missouri expects to make significant progress towards closing the gap between its earned and allowed return on equity in 2012.
On October 21 we announced a voluntary retirement offer as part of Ameren Missouri’s efforts to tighten its belt during this challenging economic period.
This action should lower overall costs to our customers as well as allowing spending with regulatory outcomes in economic conditions and improve earned returns at our Missouri utility.
The voluntary retirement offer has been made to approximately 715 management and union employees of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Services.
Ameren Services provides support services to Ameren and all of its subsidiaries.
Those accepting the offer are expected to retire by year-end 2011.
While we do not know how many employees will accept this offer a similar offer in 2009 had an acceptance rate of approximately 30%.
In connection with this program there’s one thing I want to be clear about.
We will not reduce our workforce to allow all that will impact our employee’s ability to deliver safe and reliable service to our customers.
Looking ahead Missouri will continue to explore options to reduce regulatory lag to enhance our cash flows and earn returns and thereby facilitate more timely investments in our energy infrastructure.
Facilitating such investments will improve reliability and create jobs to the benefit of all our stakeholders in the entire state of Missouri.
In addition to these developments that are regulated utilities our merchant generation business recently took steps that are expected to further reduce operating costs and capital spending plans.
These steps are part of our ongoing efforts to ensure that this business is well-positioned to weather the current period of low power prices and benefit from the expected improvement in such prices.
In early October our merchant generation business announced that it will cease operating in the Meredosia and Hutsonville energy centers in Illinois by the end of 2011.
These two smaller older energy centers provided approximately 4% of our merchant generation segments total generation over the last two years.
The closures are primarily the result of complying with a Cross-State Air Pollution Rule or CSAPR issued by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency in July of 2011.
CSAPR tightens sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission levels – emission limits to point their continued operations of these facilities is not economic.
Closure of Meredosia and Hutsonville will reduce our merchant generation fleet emission levels.
However we will retain the emission credits for SO2 and NOx associated with these plans through 2015.
As a result we no longer plan to use dry sorbent injection at our Edwards plant to comply with the SO2 limitations of the Illinois multi-polluting standard and CSAPR.
Moving to dry sorbent injection from our complying strategy Edwards eliminated one of the reasons for planned bag houses at that energy center.
The other reason for bag houses was of course for a particular control and anticipation of the half macros.
However as a result of further testing we now expect that upgrading the existing electrostatic precipitators at Edwards will allow us to achieve the anticipated particular compliance requirements without the need for bag houses at a reduced net capital cost.
As a result we’ve further reduced our expected 2011 through 2015 merchant generation segment capital expenditures by approximately $70 million.
These reductions are in addition to the approximately $200 million of lower planned merchant generation capital expenditures for the 2011 to 2015 period which we announced on the second quarter conference call.
In summary we believe that the following recent developments approval of a new constructive regulatory framework for Illinois electric delivery businesses receipt of new electric rates in Missouri this past July disciplined cost reductions at our Missouri utility to align our spending with business conditions reduced environmental capital spending plans for our merchant generation business along with plans that we have discussed in detail in prior presentations for significantly growing our investments in Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulated electric transmission projects together place Ameren in an improved position for future success.
Finally we believe that to be successful we must and we will remain dedicated to operating in a safe both in environmentally responsible manner.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Martin.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to the page nine of the presentation today we reported third quarter 2011 earnings in accordance with general accepted accounting principles or GAAP of $1.18 per share compared to a third quarter 2010 GAAP loss of $0.70 per share.
Third quarter 2011 core earnings improved to a $1.57 per share compared with third quarter 2010 quarter earnings of $1.40 per share.
The following items were excluded from third quarter 2011 and 2010 core earnings.
A charge for the Missouri Public Service Commission’s July 2011 disallowance of costs of enhancements related to the rebuilding of the Taum Sauk energy center which reduced third quarter 2011 earnings by $0.23 per share this disallowance was appealed to the courts.
Impairment and other charges related to Ameren’s merchant generation segment reduced earnings by $0.09 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
Goodwill impairment and other charges also related to the merchant segment reduced earnings by $2.19 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
The 2011 charges were related to the decision to cease operations at the Meredosia and Hutsonville energy centers by the end of 2011.
And finally the net effect of unrealized mark to market activity primarily related to non-qualified power and fuel related hedges reduce third quarter 2011 earnings by $0.07 per share an increase third quarter 2010 earnings by $0.09 per share.
Moving to page 10 here we highlight key drivers of the variance between core earnings per share for the third quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Key factors driving the earnings improvement included rate changes net of certain related expenses.
This factor increased third quarter 2011 earnings by $0.10 per share compared to the third quarter of 2010 reflecting an electric rate increase in Illinois effective in November of 2010 and an electric rate increase in Missouri effective in late July 2011.
A second key driver was lower core non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses which increased third quarter 2011 earnings by $0.09 per share compared to the third quarter of 2010.
The lower O&amp;M reflected discipline cost management across all of our business segments.
Lower interest expense was also a factor behind the improvement in third quarter 2011 earnings compared to the third quarter of 2010.
This increased earnings by $0.03 per share.
Weather was significantly warmer than normal in the third quarter of 2011 and slightly warmer than that of the year ago quarter.
This boosted earnings by an estimated $0.02 per share compared to the third quarter of 2010 and by an estimated $0.14 per share compared to normal.
The primary factor negatively affecting the comparison between third quarter 2011 earnings and third quarter 2010 earnings was lower margins at our Merchant Generation segment which reduced earnings by $0.05 per share.
These lower margins reflected lower realized power prices and higher fuel and transportation related expenses.
While margins were down Merchant Generation Energy Center operations were strong.
Equivalent availability was 92% and the net capacity factor was 80% at this segment’s base load energy centers in the third quarter of 2011.
As Tom mentioned we have raised our 2011 core earnings guidance range to $2.50 to $2.60 per share up from our prior range of $2.30 to $2.55 per share.
This increase in guidance reflects strong third quarter core earnings driven by warmer than normal weather and continued disciplined cost management.
The core earnings guidance for our combined Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois segments was raised to a range of $2.25 to $2.30 up from our prior range of $2.10 to $2.25.
The core guidance range for our Merchant Generation segment was narrowed to a range of $0.25 per share to $0.30 per share in the upper half of our prior range.
Before I leave our discussion of 2011 earnings guidance I would like to remind you that fourth quarter earnings results will be impacted by cost related scheduled 2011 Callaway nuclear energy center with fueling and maintenance average which is currently in progress.
In addition I would like to discuss a pending regulatory matter in Missouri that could impact fourth quarter GAAP and core earnings.
In Missouri the staff of the Public Service Commission is required to initiate a prudence review of costs subject to the fuel adjustment clause at least every 18 months.
The staff recently initiated its second such review since implementation of Ameren Missouri’s fuel adjustment clause.
This second review covers the period from October 1 2009 through May 31 2011.
In its first review the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission recommended at the – and the PSC ruled in April of 2011 by a three-two vote that Ameren Missouri flow through the FAC and credit to customers all margins associated with certain long-term partial requirement sales they were made by Ameren Missouri due to the loss of load from Noranda Aluminum’s Missouri smelter plan.
You’ll recall this loss of load was caused by a severe ice-storm in January of 2009.
As a result of this order we recorded a second quarter of 2011 pretax charge of $18 million to core earnings or about $0.05 per share.
We continue to disagree with PSCs order in its classification of these sales and believe that the terms of the FAC tariff did not provide for margins from these sales to be flowed through the FAC.
Therefore we have appealed this decision to the courts.
As we have previously disclosed Ameren Missouri recognized additional margin associated with the same long-term partial requirement sales contracts subsequent to September 30 2009.
The recently initiated second FAC prudence review covers the subsequent period.
On October 28 the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission recommended that the PSC required these additional margins which it calculates to be $26 million also be flowed through the FAC and therefore credited the customers.
The staffs report dealt only with this issue and it plans to file a report on the balance of its FAC review by the end of February 2012.
The PSC has not indicated whether we will rule on the treatment of this $26 million before it receives the staffs report from the balance of its review.
If the PSC rules that this $26 million should be flowed through the FAC and the courts have not overturned the PSCs prior FAC prudence review decision we would expect to take a charge to core earnings of approximately $0.07 per share in the period when such a decision is issued.
Such a potential charge has not been assumed in our 2011 earnings guidance.
As I close our discussion of 2011 earnings guidance I need to remind you that our guidance assumes normal weather for the fourth quarter of this year.
Further any charge that may result from the recently announced voluntary retirement offer to certain employees as well as any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will impact GAAP earnings that are excluded from GAAP earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses for the full year.
Core earnings and guidance exclude any charge resulting from the voluntary retirement offer and any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses.
Further our earnings guidance for 2011 is subject to the risks and uncertainties outlined or referred to in today’s press release including the forward-looking statement section of that release.
Turning to page 11 I would now like to provide updated 2011 projected cash flow information.
We now expect to achieve free cash flow of approximately $325 million up from our prior guidance of approximately $225 million.
The improved cash flow outlook reflects increased 2011 earnings expectations lower capital expenditures and updated working capital expectations.
Turning now to page 12 in a discussion of our pending delivery rate cases in Illinois in October the parties filed initial and reply briefs in these cases.
Our rate increased request continued to total $89 million annually with $39 million of this related to electric delivery service and $50 million related to gas delivery service.
We planned to withdraw our electric delivery case as permitted by the recently passed trailer bill and move to the newly authorized performance based formula rate making.
However the gas rate case will still proceed to completion.
On this page and the next we have provided a breakdown of the electric and gas service numbers included in our and other party’s positions.
The ICC staff is now recommending a combined revenue increase of $33 million with $29.5 million of this related to the gas rate case.
By far the most material difference between our position and that of the staff is related to return on equity.
On page 13 we outlined key points of the attorney general’s and Citizen Utility Board’s for vital positions as well as those of the Illinois industrial energy customers.
The administrative law judges are expected to issue their proposed order on November 15 of this year and the deadline for Illinois Commerce Commission decision is January 12 of 2012 with new rates expected to be effective shortly thereafter.
Moving now to page 14 in our Merchant Generation business I would like to provide additional details on the financial impact of shutting down Meredosia and Hutsonville by year-end 2011.
Combined these energy centers are expected to be about breakeven in 2011 from a cash flow perspective.
Going forward we expect to closure of these facilities in the resulting 2011 impairments will improve perspective earnings by about $0.01 to $0.02 per share annually.
Tom already mentioned the ceasing operations at these two energy centers enable us in part to reduce our planned Merchant Segment capital expenditures due primarily to the elimination of the previously planned baghouses at Edwards.
On this page we provided you with our revised lower Merchant Generation plant capital expenditures for 2011 through 2015 by year.
On page 15 we provide an update on our four power sales and hedged data as of September 30 2011.
We continue to expect our Merchant Generation business to generate approximately 29.5 million megawatt hours in 2011 with approximately 27.5 million of this coming from our five largest coal-fired energy centers the Coffeen Duck Creek Edwards Joppa and Newton facilities.
These 29.5 million megawatt hours due include 100% of the expected generation of the Electric Energy Inc.
or Joppa Energy Center a facility in which Ameren owns an 80% interest.
As you can see our projected 2011 power sales are very close to fully hedged.
For 2012 we have now hedged approximately 21.5 million megawatt hours at an average price of $46 per megawatt hour.
Further for 2013 we’ve hedged approximately 11 million megawatt hours at an average price of $41 per megawatt hour.
Our capacity sales are approximately 63% hedged for 2012 and approximately 42% hedged in 2013.
Turning to the last page of our formal presentation page 16 here we provide an update of our Merchant Generation’s segments fuel and transportation related hedges.
For 2011 we have hedged essentially all of our expected generation.
For 2012 we have now hedged approximately 25 million megawatt hours at about $24 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 we have now hedged approximately 9 million megawatt hours at about 26.50 per megawatt hour.
This is hedging information then completes our prepared remarks.
And we will now be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
We’ll now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Scott Senchak from Decade Capital Management.
Hi.
Thank you.
Just a question on slide 15 your 2013 hedged price how should we think about that is that a full requirement’s hedge is it block power or...
Sure Scott.
This is Martin.
So on slide 15 2013 you’re looking at the $41 per megawatt I guess for the 11 million or so megawatt hours that we sold.
The way you ought to think about ‘13 in terms of what’s in there is and round-the-clock kind of product usually has about 47% to 48% on peak.
Our generation profile is typically more about 52% on peak and basically what you see in there is megawatt hours that have been sold more like our generation profile more like that 52% on peak 48% off peak and that does include any kind of hedges or forward sales we’ve made.
So whether they be financial products or physical products most of that I would say in that period of time does represent physical contracts that we have with counterparties and would include then some energy some capacity and some other services.
Got you.
Thanks.
And then just turning to Illinois with this new Illinois legislation how should we think about the ROEs there now with this legislation? Is the – I know it’s matched to the 30-year treasury yield in 2012 will your ROE be within the band of the average treasury yield in ‘12 or is it off of the treasury yield in ‘11? Yeah Scott this is Martin again.
Good question it’s my understanding that that would be based on the 2012 treasuries and the spread over the average 2012 treasuries.
Got you got you.
And then also I’m not sure if I missed this the impact of weather versus normal for the year at Ameren Illinois and Ameren Missouri this year? I don’t know that I gave it out necessarily by legal entity but basically the effect of temperate for this year in the third quarter we talked about it being about $0.02 positive versus last year we estimate that it was about $0.14 positive versus normal.
And then for the full year on a year-to-date basis it was probably a positive $0.21 versus normal conditions year-to-date actually down about $0.05 versus last year based on strong weather we had primarily in the second quarter of last year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys congrats on a great quarter and a good update real quick two questions.
One can you walk us through of the rate increases that you received in both Missouri and Illinois? How much you’ve already taken and what’s left to be taken in the coming quarters? Yeah I don’t know when you say what’s left to be taken or to be taken.
I can tell you this when you look at slide 10 we talked about on the quarter that the impact of rate changes was about $0.10.
And that broke down in the quarter Michael about $0.08 for Missouri and about $0.02 for Illinois.
So as you know the Missouri rate case didn’t go into effect until very last part of July.
So maybe that information is helpful to you.
Okay.
And do you – just quickly on that one.
Do you have the year-to-date for that as well? What the electric and gas rate changes mean on a year-to-date basis? We do – maybe somebody can – can dig that out and provide that information.
I don’t have it here in front of me.
That sounds fine.
One last one non-fuel O&amp;M you guys have done a great job in managing O&amp;M and the $0.09 benefit in this quarter that does not reflect the impact of the voluntary severance plan you just announced this is kind of before that goes into effect as well? Yeah I guess you’re asking in terms of I think you’re asking the overall benefit of voluntary plan when we recognize that Michael or? No I’m trying to think about the – did you – are you already receiving some of the benefits of the cost reduction related to that voluntary severance plan? Or is that in addition to the $0.09 of O&amp;M savings that ….
Oh yeah.
That you got this quarter? Yeah yeah I think we are on the same page.
No I mean the voluntary severance offer/retirement offer that’s been made is really outstanding.
So employees have until around the end of the year to decide whether they are going to accept that or not.
Our historical experience with this kind of a program is to have gotten about a 30% type opt-in-rate hard to tell whether you get that or not but to say 30% to 40% kind of opt-in-rate might be expected.
But the benefits of that in terms of cost savings would actually be realized next year.
We are not realizing any of that right now because none of those employees have yet retired.
Got it.
Okay thanks guys.
And once again congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Erica Piserchia from Wunderlich Securities.
Hi just following up a little on the operating cost savings here.
Just more broadly when you think about the business as far as the cost structure I mean is your cost structure now sort of optimally configured or there are more opportunities for this did you feel like where you are now is sort of where you’d like the business to be from that perspective? Yeah Erica thanks for the question.
I think that what – we’re certainly committed to doing as you know is improving our earned returns.
And so we’re going to stay focused on disciplined cost control disciplined investment as we seek to improve those earned returns.
You’ve asked a question on the past couple of calls about sales levels.
As you know the economy has in part caused our sales level to be fairly sluggish.
In fact as you know we’ve seen some declines in residential and commercial sales this year when you strip out the impacts of weather.
And so as a result of that we’ve certainly been looking to tighten our belt keep costs under control and importantly that also helps to – help contain costs for our customers as we recently have been going in for rate cases and of course the benefits of those costs savings eventually accretive to customer in terms of lower rate increases.
So that’s what we are doing.
I’d say looking forward given Senate Bill 1652 certainly in Illinois we’re going to be looking to add employees as we look to make investments in that state to improve service reliability service quality and roll out some of the smart grid plant so that we laid out and are laid out in the legislation.
So just those are some of the thoughts I guess on how we’re trying to manage the business.
Okay.
And just I guess a follow up to that I mean does that – does where you stand now given some of these sort of optimization efforts that you’ve put through on the cost side.
Does that change your view as far as just where you think you can be I mean in the past you’ve talked about obviously reducing that regulatory lag and obviously in the Illinois side we have this legislation but I’m thinking on the Missouri side as well does that increase your confidence in your ability going forward or was this kind of optimization is something that you had contemplated when you sort off initially – sort of that – maybe not initially but earlier this year when you were talking about that did you kind of have this more optimal cost structure in mind I guess? Well good questions Erica.
And I think with respect to – we’ll start with Illinois I think one of the benefits of Senate Bill 62 is we talked about with the formulaic rates is it does give you more confidence to be able to make investments to be able to add your workforce and feel confident that you’re going to be able to earn something close to your allowed returns.
So certainly that does give us a greater confidence.
And then in Missouri we talked about last quarter making significant progress in terms of closing the gap between our weather normalized earned returns this year and our allowed returns as we look to go from 2011 into 2012.
And what we’re doing is executing on plans that we believe will allow us to achieve that goal.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank your next.
Our question comes from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Hey how are you doing? Great.
Thanks.
Well how are you? All right.
Let’s just go over the Illinois thing I’m afraid that I’ve been distracted slightly when you were going over with the few other people.
What was your ROE – given your guidance that you’ve had here we’re in the fourth quarter.
What should we think about as your ROE that you guys are going to earned roughly speaking in 2011 in Illinois on the electric side? Yeah we really haven’t broken that down Paul.
I mean I can tell you that overall based on the guidance we’ve given for the regulated segments the implied ROE there is about 9% 9.2% but of that – of course that includes the impacts of weather.
And if you strip that out the weather you’re probably talking about an implied ROE of around an 8.2-ish kind of percent.
Okay.
Well that helps me though.
So we’re at 9.2 right now now you’re going to be opting for this legislation and withdrawing your rate case et cetera.
So that means that – I mean I guess what it sounds like to me though is I mean I guess we should assume that there is not going to be – you don’t expect much of a lag I guess beginning in 2012.
The ROE and given the fact that it’s now lower the kind of with the mechanism and stuff.
We really should expect all that much out off – in terms of growth at least 2012 does that make sense? I don’t know if that exactly makes sense or not.
I mean I think with the questions that came up earlier is ultimately I think what we are earned in Illinois in 2012 will be somewhat – well not somewhat but will be – and somewhat in part dictated by what the treasuries are in 2012.
So the question came earlier ultimately when you go through the formulae a great making in 2012 what is the formulaic rate tide to and it’s going to be based on an average of treasuries… 2012 plus the (inaudible).
Yeah.
And just we don’t know what they’re going to be obviously.
But I mean I’m just looking at where they are now I guess is what I’m sort of saying.
I mean looking at – just assuming that like interest rates stay flat which obviously is a little bit – obviously quite a leap.
But just assuming that though we wouldn’t necessarily expect I mean depending on what interest rates do you wouldn’t be making that much more if interest rates stayed flat and regardless of whether whatever would seem to be that you guys would pretty much be in the same category or am I missing something? Well again I think the thing is that when you look at it I guess we haven’t said exactly what our earned ROE is going to be in Illinois this year.
But I mean I guess what I’m trying to say is ultimately what it is next year you’re right we don’t know what treasuries it will be it will be based on whatever the average of the 30-year treasuries are next year plus the adder.
If you took a 12-month history of treasuries today you’d get a different answer than what the treasuries are today at this point in time.
Paul in complete answer to your question when you look at Ameren Illinois I’d also not forget that the gas rates will be reset based on the forecasted test year we filed.
And so that will have an impact on the earned ROE and it’s also important to remember that we have a decent size transmission rate base in Ameren Illinois as well.
Okay no.
I was just trying to isolate the electric I’m sorry.
Just was trying to get the – I don’t want to belabored either.
I think I’ve got a pretty good sense here.
The other thing I want to ask you about is the write-off.
What was behind that the Merchant Generation write-down? Sure.
The Merchant Generation write-down really as you know had to do with the closure of Meredosia and Hutsonville.
You know when we had our last quarterly call we talked about the fact that we thought like we are getting pretty good clarity on getting our arms around our environmental capital expenditures and what was necessary to comply with the various rules that were out there.
And the one I known really was and how we’re going to comply with respect to the tighten NOx submission standards.
And so as we look at specifically that the tighten NOx submission standards ultimately it was decided that we were forced to really shutdown Meredosia and Hutsonville to be able to comply with those CSAPR rules the NOx component of CSAPR rules so that was the big driver there.
But then Paul as we talked about on the call what that allowed us to do is once that decision is made you look at your overall SO2 and NOx allowances given that those plans are no longer in the mix.
And then that allows you to kind of relook at your overall compliance strategy for SO2 for your fleet that led us to the conclusion that we could actually reduce our capital expenditures or excuse me eliminate the use of DSI I would say at Edwards.
And then that triggered basically our ability to relook at the baghouses in the need for those versus upgrades to our precipitator.
So the CSAPR rules were certainly the cause of the decision to shut down Meredosia and Hutsonville but that lead to sort of a chain of decisions that led to reduced capital costs at our Edwards facility.
Okay.
And then with the PGM portability of the capacity that seems an issue that you guys were obviously looking at and given the big disparity in capacity pricing any more thought I know I asked this last quarter and I know it’s little early but just wondering if you guys have anymore thoughts about what might be happening there? No.
I don’t think there is any meaningful update.
We’ve certainly filed our positions with FERC that are in line with the positions that – we articulated on our second quarter call.
So I wouldn’t say at this point there is any meaningful update to report? Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Paz from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
Question – my question on the dividend.
Can you give us a flavor on what your target payout ratio on regulated earnings will be going forward? Clearly are you comfortable with the current 70% based on the mid-point of 2011 guidance but I guess just – what that range could be is that 70% on the high-end or low-end? Anything you can see there? At this time I think generally there would be a little bit on the high-end of the regulated earnings but our goal was to try and get somewhere between 55% and 70% of the regulated earnings as a payout range.
The important thing about this particular time was that we thought it was good to reaffirm that the dividend is solid it’s not at risk.
We think it’s in good shape.
We’ve had very positive cash flows and we thought it was a good time to raise dividend.
Okay.
And those regulated earnings includes transmission earnings as well right? Yeah David.
It includes all of our regulated earnings in the Missouri and Illinois transmission.
And as we look forward any earnings from Ameren Transmission Company? Yes correct.
Okay.
And then on Illinois can you actually – two things what is the baseline electric distribution spend that you’re looking at per the law I believe it was average of 2008 2010.
We are just not clear on whether that includes transmission excludes transmission just what is that base line to which you can add to $625 million over a ten year period? Yeah.
David I do believe that it does include the transmission Doug you have the base line number or no.
The base line number for electric delivery only.
Scot why don’t you… This is Scott Cisel the base line on the electric side is $275 million.
Okay.
So that doesn’t include transmission line? That’s right you’re correct about that David I’m….
That’s fine.
And then so then in your 2011 CapEx for Ameren Illinois we don’t provide any further breakout but on your 2011 plan CapEx what percentage is fine what is the breakout for electric distribution or sorry electric delivery transmission and gas? David I don’t have that here in front of me in terms of that breakout I mean are you trying to get a sense for how much of that 625 is going to be incremental or invested… Yes.
I mean – look we’re going to blend a filing with the ICC.
We’ve got some work to do to put together our exact spending plans but I think it’s safe to assume that out of that 625 over the next five years you’d see about half of that invested over the next five years I think is a safe assumption.
And when I say invested I think that would be incremental to what has been disclosed in terms of our capital spending plans.
Okay.
All right.
And then are there any similar efforts whether it’s on legislative or on the regulatory front in Missouri and maybe not a bill similar to this but any other efforts to reduce regulatory lag there in Missouri such as reducing the time between filing a rate case and actual rate case decisions? Hello David.
This is Warner Baxter how are doing? Good.
How are you Warn? I’m terrific thanks.
It’s time it stayed little bit earlier.
At Missouri we’re going to continue to explore several options to reduce regulatory lag and certainly one of those options could be a legislative route and potentially one like SP1652 which I believe in Missouri would yield many of the same benefits as they really are in Illinois.
Now because importantly as Tom said reducing regulatory lag if that enhanced our cash flows and returns but most importantly facilitate greater investments in energy infrastructure to improve the liability great good paying jobs and ultimately benefit our customers in the state.
But I think well that’s a legislative.
I think we are not supporting them.
We also consider other alternatives to reduce lag including speaking ways to reduce lag potentially through the regulatory process.
So we will look at both of those but in the interim as Martin said what we are doing we are taking steps to better align our spending to be consistent with the regulatory outcomes in the economic conditions in order to reduce lag and make significant progress towards closing that gap.
So we are looking at both regulatory approach a legislative approach and then really an operational approach.
We are very focused on it.
Great.
Thank you so much guys.
It’s all right David.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Hi good morning.
Hi Julien good morning.
Good morning.
First question on the timing of the implementation with the comment bill.
I wanted to get a sense there I mean what month’s should we assume our – these “new rates” going to effect? Yeah new rates.
You wouldn’t expect new rates to go into effect until sometime in the second half of 2012.
All right great.
And then secondly I understand there is an energy procurement element of the bill just wanted to get your senses to your participation and kind of what you see that product kind of coming out as initially? Yeah I don’t know but “product” but as we look ahead obviously one of the things we have to do with respect to that business is manage our overall plans whether it be for capital expenditures or procurement of power to be mindful of the 2.5% capital on increase in rates.
We feel pretty good about our ability to achieve that through the 2014 markets that’s in the legislation based upon lot of the hedges that we already have in place power procurement hedges for Ameren Illinois.
So as we move forward we’re in pretty good shape with those but will be very mindful of that 2.5% cap as we put together our plans for the future.
Great.
Also I’ve seen some comments recently talking about energy efficiency in reduction and your plants spending on that front in Missouri just kind of wanted to get a sense why pull back on that what kind of load reduction was it leading and then what are the financial ramifications if you will? Julien this is Warner Baxter really from the outside one thing I want to make clear we have supported and continue to support statewide efforts to increase synergy efficiency of our customers but we’ve also stated that we need to make progress on the regulatory framework not only recover our energy efficiency program costs but really the fixed cost that we lose due to these power sales.
And so in our last rate case we saw at the putting our framework that would have addressed that the commission reviewed that and rejected our proposal.
And so we’re really we’re left with no reasonable choice but to reduce those level of expenditures in the interim until we really get a framework that’s in place.
And we continue to explore that.
And we do expect to propose yet another framework that will address some of our concerns to really continue to move forward with energy efficiency in Missouri.
But today we are still spending millions of dollars on energy efficiency in Missouri both when you combine both the electric and gas side and we’re going to continue to stay focused on trying to find a solution to this issue.
Great.
And then lastly more on the merchant side with regards to retail switching in your service territory in Illinois it seems like that sort of started to take off somewhat.
Do you anticipate sort of broadening your retail ambitions in any senses as that opportunity is in front of you? Julien I would say that and remind everybody we have had a marketing effort overtime associated with our generation it’s not a new thing.
We’ve also had a retail marketing effort as well.
I think you’re right we are seeing some increases in switching within the state and we’re staying active in the State.
I think if you look back at some of our sales overtime like if you look at this year I’d say that about 45% of the sales we’re making this year from our generation are going to sort of physical delivery physical end use.
So as far as our merchant business that’s something we’re going to continue to focused on and we’re going to target something greater than 50% of our generation to go to physical delivery customers as we move forward.
Great.
Thank you for the time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Greg Gordon from ISI Group.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Greg good morning how’ve you been? Good good.
Looking forward to seeing you in paradise.
So just think of some high level sort of question as I look at how you guys have positioned your company over the last 12 months I mean you have addressed the cost side in Missouri and through legislation you’ll hopefully be addressing the revenue side and there were no way on the utilities and so you’ve gotten some visibility on an earnings trajectory to get you the authorized return and thus the signal with the dividend which is great? And on the power generation side you can control the denominator you can’t really – you have a limited control over the numerator but you do in your regardless to reduce the cost so you don’t want have to add investment at leverage right.
So I mean what’s the current leverage that’s allocated to the Genco is it about 1.5 billion is that right if I take a look at the parent debt and the Genco debt? Yeah we talked about –we broke down I think last quarter similar debt levels by segment and I think it was about 1.5 1.6 to the merchant segment overall but you know I would say as you look Greg at the balance sheet at the end of this quarter when we put out our queue you look at year end we have been generating as we mentioned positive free cash flows overall for the company projected to be 325 this year of that free cash flow nearly 200 of that coming from the merchant business about 150 from Genco itself.
So that segment has been producing positive free cash flow and we have been using that to pay down parent company borrowing so.
So I guess my point of that is.
Well I guess that’s the rub I mean if you can – if people got comfortable that this was a $200 million cash flow business then it’s more than covering the debt and there’s equity value if they are not comfortable that it’s a $200 million cash flow business than it doesn’t.
Just using 7 to 8 times EBITDA these are rough multiples.
So I guess the last leg of the stool here from a strategic perspective is you’ve done a fantastic job addressing the utility side of things and hopefully you will execute and get to the earned returns.
You are really doing a great job controlling the investment on the cost side but – and just of all the other questions I’ve heard on the Genco is when are we going to see the – when are we going to see the offsetting revenues notwithstanding how bad the forward curve looks? Yeah.
Well yeah I here you Greg I mean we’re dealing to your point we’re doing what we can to take the positive free cash flows we have reduce our outstanding leverage we’ve taken nearly – actually more than $250 million of cost out of our projected capital expenditures.
We are keeping a lid on O&amp;M costs in that segment.
So we’re doing what we can to control the costs.
We’re paying down debt decreasing leverage.
And we’ll see what happens in terms of the market recovery.
We certainly think that the impact of some of the environmental regulations that are out are going to have an impact on reserve margins in our regions.
And we think we’ve gotten our arms around our environmental compliance plans.
Great.
And one last question just onto follow up on another question that 9.2% ROE was that on book equity or rate base equity? That was based on rate – it will be based on book equity actually the 9.2%.
It’s tangible book at the utilities.
Great.
Thanks guys.
See you soon.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan from Visium.
Good morning.
Good morning Ashar.
Martin can I just go so the rate case you’re going to withdraw and you said the new rates are going to get implemented what like June or something under this plan? Yeah we were saying the rate impacts would really be in the second half of 2012.
So August 2 have so like what our July 1.
No not to say of July 1 I should have committed that to memory but I don’t have the exact day just and I think it will be based on when we are ready to file.
Frankly I think that there is a lot of work that goes into actually making the filing for the formulary grades and whether it be the capital spending plans the hiring plans the smart grid rollout plans the plans to measure the improvements in our service et cetera.
So a lot that goes into the filing when we are ready to make that filing we will make it but ultimately the date that the rates we have changed will be somewhat dependent upon filing.
And then if I read correctly you said they are going to base the numbers from the Form 1 is that correct? Yes.
So what – like we have the FERC form so can you just guide us what numbers are they going to take they are going to take your net plant from the FERC Form 1 and then apply the ROE from there is that what they are going to do? Ashar this is Doug.
I think that’s a discussion maybe we can offline as we go through the process.
I don’t think we – I think we will get bogged down if we get into all the details here.
Okay.
And then if I can just follow-up as I look into next year rate the Missouri rate case is going to is still not fully right we got a decision late so that should help earnings going forward because the full impact is not in there next year is that correct? That is correct.
The new Missouri rates went into effect at the end of July of this year.
So we will get the benefit of a full-year of rate.
I think – On last one please.
Yeah and if I’m right there’s going to be no Callaway outage next year am I correct? That is correct.
And that is how much in earnings benefit? Well this – one we had last year was about $0.11 impact the cost of the outage back in the 2010.
Okay.
So there’s an $0.11 gain.
Okay thank you so much.
Thank you Ashar.
Thank you Ashar.
I want to just bring the call to a close and thank everyone for participating.
We’re looking forward to seeing many of you at the EEI Financial Conference next week.
Let me remind you again that this call was available through November 11 on playback and for one year on our webcast.
Today’s press release includes instructions on listening to the playback.
You may also call or e-mail the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analysts inquires should be directed to me – Doug Fischer.
Media should call Brian Bretsch our contact information is on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
This call has completed.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Douglas Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Voss; our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marty Lyons; and other members of Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at www.ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the Investor section of our website under webcasts and presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors section in our filing with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of 2011 earnings and 2012 guidance followed by a discussion of recent business and regulatory developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of 2011 financial results our 2012 guidance and regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here’s Tom who will start on page three of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Core earnings for 2011 were $2.56 per share in line with the increased guidance range we provided in November of last year.
As expected these 2011 results were below the $2.75 of core earnings per share achieved in 2010.
This reflected lower electric sales to native load utility customers due in part to summer temperatures that while warmer than normal were below those very hot 2010.
In addition merchant generation margins decline as a result of lower realized power and capacity prices as well as higher fuel and transportation related expenses.
These factors were offset in part by increased electric utility rates in Missouri and Illinois.
Further core non-fuel operations and maintenances expenses were lower reflecting continued disciplined cost management and interest cost fell as we used our free cash flow over the last two years to reduce outstanding debt.
Beginning on page four you will find a list of our key accomplishments in 2011.
These accomplishments are clear evidence of our commitment to providing customers with safe reliable environmentally responsible and reasonably priced energy while at the same time enhancing value for our shareholders.
To put these accomplishments into context it is important to summarize some of our key financial objectives.
At our regulated utilities we seek to earn fair returns on our investments which allow us to attract on competitive terms the capital we need to provide the level of service our customers expect.
We are working around fair returns by maintaining solid operating performance while improving our regulatory frameworks and seeking rate release as needed.
Further we are committed to allocating capital to those projects on which we expect to earn fair returns and aligning our spending with regulatory outcomes and economic conditions.
At our merchant generation business we seek to protect and enhance shareholder value by minimizing operating and capital spending during the current period of low power prices while advocating for regulatory policies and power market improvements that will lead to improved economics.
While I’ll not touch on each of the 2011 accomplishments listed on pages four and five I would like to summarize and highlight a few of our successes.
At Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois we posted another year of solid distribution system reliability.
At Ameren Missouri and our merchant generation business availability of our energy centers remained high.
Our restoration efforts following severe storms in both Missouri and Illinois won praise from government officials.
In addition in 2011 we actively pursued legislative and regulatory agendas that we expect will improve predictability and level of earned returns at our regulated utilities.
The most notable development on this front was the enactment by the State of Illinois of legislation established on performance based formula ratemaking for electric delivery service.
Further we thought and obtained electric and gas rate increases in Missouri and a gas rate increase in Illinois the latter of which was authorized in January of 2012.
Continuing on page five at our merchant generation business we updated our environmental compliance strategy during 2011 leading to reductions in capital spending plans and expected future operating costs compared to our prior plans.
Ameren Transmission Company also notched important successes allowing us to move forward with our plans to improve the region’s electric transmission system and also create jobs.
In May the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC approved requested constructive rate treatment for two transmission projects.
And in December the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator or MISO approved three major transmission projects.
On the financial front we concluded another year of successful cost management with a decline in core non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses.
In addition we generated enough cash flow from operations to fund more than $1 billion of investments.
And the common dividend while also reducing outstanding borrowings and more than 85% of these investments were for infrastructure at our regulated utilities.
Finally in October of 2011 Ameren’s Board of Directors increased the quarterly common dividend by3.9% per share.
Moving now to page six in a forward focus today we announced 2012 GAAP and core earnings guidance of $2.20 to $2.50 per share.
The projected decline in 2012 core earnings per share compared to 2011 is primarily due to expected lower margins at our merchant generation business and an assumed return to normal temperatures.
These factors are expected to be partly offset by increased utility rates as well as reduced non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses in Missouri.
Turning to page seven on pending regulatory matters in January of 2012 Ameren Illinois elected to participate in Illinois’ new performance based formula ratemaking process for electric delivery service by making an initial filing with the Illinois Commerce Commission.
As a result we expect Ameren Illinois’ electric delivery earnings in 2012 and beyond to reflect formula ratemaking which will enable us to invest in a state improving infrastructure and creating jobs.
The improved infrastructure will enhance reliability and provide customers with the energy usage options made possible by smart meters.
Turning to Missouri we are focused on modernizing the existing regulatory framework.
Our modern regulatory framework that allows us to recover and earn fair returns on our investments on a timely basis will improve our ability to bring aging infrastructure up to 21st standards allowing us to meet customer expectations and create jobs.
Earlier this month Ameren Missouri filed an electric rate case with the Missouri Public Service Commission seeking to recover its operating and capital costs and to earn a fair return on investments it has made to serve its customers.
Marty will provide details of the filings in a few minutes.
However I would like to highlight two proposals we have made in this case to enhance the existing regulatory framework.
First we are seeking approval of a storm cost tracking mechanism that wd provide the opportunity to recover costs to restore service after major storms in a manner that is fair to both our customers and our investors.
Second we are seeking approval of a new plant-in-service accounting proposal.
This proposal is designed to reduce the impact of regulatory lag on earnings and future cash flows related to assets placed in service between rate cases.
In addition to the pending electric rate case in January 2012 Ameren and Missouri filed its first request with the Missouri Public Service Commission for approval of new and expanded energy efficiency programs under the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act.
Our proposed energy efficiency programs are expected to provide significant long-term benefits to our customers.
The energy efficiency legislation was designed to enable utilities to pursue cost effective energy efficiency programs by requiring that the regulatory framework properly align the utility’s financial incentives with those of customers.
Ameren Missouri’s ability to move forward with these proposed energy efficiency programs will require a regulatory frame work consistent with this legislation.
And our energy efficiency proposal is consistent with the legislation and industry best practices.
Before I conclude my comments on pending regulatory matters I want to mention that we support the MISO’s filing at the FERC for an annual capacity construct as a first step although we continue to advocate for a multi-year capacity construct to ensure properly functioning power markets.
Further we strongly support MISO’s effort at FERC to increase the amount of capacity that can be shared across the MISO PJM seen.
Constructive action on these matters is the right thing for FERC to do because it’d lead to prices that more accurately reflect the value of capacity improve efficiency and reliability and benefit customers over the long-term.
Turning to page eight.
Our merchant generation business has produced positive free cash flows in recent years including over $200 million in 2011.
This reflects the benefit of our forward power sales in hedging programs and actions we have taken to control spending.
For 2012 we’ve again sold forward or hedged nearly all of our expected 2012 merchant generation output at prices above current market levels.
As a result we expect our merchant generation segment to be free cash flow positive in 2012 and for Genco with the benefit of existing money pool receivables to provide for its own cash needs.
As we look beyond 2012 we cannot ignore the potential negative impact of lower prices on our cash flows.
As most of you are aware since late 2011 there has been a sharp decline in forward power prices.
We attribute this most recent price decline to the U.S.
Court of appeals order staying the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule or CSAPR as well as the recent decline in natural gas prices.
It is unclear to us exactly when legal and regulatory uncertainties related to CSAPR will be resolved and when natural gas and power prices will recover.
This decline has prompted us to again revise capital spending plans for our merchant generation business.
As a result we have decided to immediately decelerate construction of the Newton scrubber project postponing installation until such time as the incremental investment necessary for completion is justified by the visible market conditions.
In addition we are moving from our forward five-year expenditure plans to previously planned Edwards 3 helper electrostatic precipitator.
We believe that these actions are the best path to ensuring appropriate returns on incremental environmental investments and achieving continued positive free cash flow at our merchant generation business segment during this period of low power prices.
We estimate that these actions will reduce 2012 through 2014 capital needs by a total of approximately $270 million compared to prior plans.
As we work to ramp down the Newton Scrubber Project we will do so in a manner that preserves the value of work commissioned to-date.
We plan to take delivery and place the various completed components and materials into a safe store condition over the remainder of this year.
Thereafter we’ll perform minimal amounts of ongoing construction activity such that when the economics merit completing the Newton Scrubber Project in earnest we’ll able to do so in an orderly and cost effective manner.
We have already initiated discussions with our partners and vendors on the task timelines and cost associated with decelerating the project.
Based on these discussions we have removed the vast majority of capital spending related to the Newton Scrubber Project from our 2013 and 2014 plans and we have reduced our expected 2012 spending level on the Newton Scrubbers to approximately $150 million reflecting work commissioned to-date.
These developments highlight the critical need for a viable multiyear capacity market in the MISO region as well as a need for portability of capacity between MISO and PJM.
The current state of uncertainty arising from low power prices and uncertain environmental rules has a potential in my view to negatively impact electric reliability within MISO and elsewhere in the nation.
Moving now to page nine we remain very excited about our plans to symmetrically grow our investments in FERC regulated electric transmission projects.
In fact Ameren expects to invest a total of approximately $1.7 billion in such projects over the five-year period ending in 2016.
Customer should benefit from improved reliability in a more efficient electric system.
Our investors should benefit because we expect to earn fair returns on such investments.
At this time we are investing in FERC regulated transmission through two different entities Ameren Illinois Company and ATX.
Ameren Illinois has significant opportunities to invest in projects that are focused on local load growth and reliability needs.
This business expects to invest nearly $900 million in such projects over the five-year period.
ATX plans to build Greenfield regional transmission projects initially within Illinois and Missouri and to invest approximately $750 million in such projects over the next five years.
In December of 2011 MISO’s Board of Directors approved three of ATX projects as multi-value projects.
These projects represent more than $1.2 billion of ATX investments over eight years and we are moving ahead with development of these projects.
In fact for the largest of these the $800 plus million Illinois Rivers project we are moving forward with the line routing and siting process.
I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to page 10 of the presentation today we reported 2011 earnings in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP of $2.15 per share compared to 2010 GAAP earnings of $0.58 per share.
Excluding certain items in each year Ameren recorded 2011 core earnings of $2.56 per share compared with 2010 core earnings of $2.75 per share.
2011 core earnings exclude three items that are included in GAAP earnings.
The first of these non-core items is employee separation charges related to the 2011 voluntary retirement offer which reduced earnings by $0.07 per share.
The second non-core item is $0.02 per share loss from the net effect of unrealized mark-to-market activity.
The third of these full year 2011 non-core items is goodwill impairment and other charges taken into the third quarter of $0.32 per share.
These charges were the results of Missouri Public Service Commission’s disallowance of cost of enhancements related to the rebuilding of the Taum Sauk Pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center as well as our decision to cease operations at the Meredosia and Hutsonville merchant generation energy centers.
Turning to page 11 here we highlight key factors driving the variance between core earnings per share for 2011 and 2010.
Key factors adversely affecting the comparison include a decline in margins at our regulated utilities of $0.30 per share after excluding rate changes.
We estimate that $0.13 of this decline was due to lower weather-normalized loads and $0.10 was primarily the result of temperatures that were below those – very hot 2010.
Another $0.05 of the decline was due to a second quarter 2011 charge related to Missouri public service commission requirement that certain revenues be flow-through the fuel adjustment clause.
A decline in margins at the merchant generation business reduced 2011 earnings by $0.21 per share.
The reduced margins reflected lower realized power and capacity prices and higher fuel and related transportation costs.
Several severe storms in the first half of 2011 reduced earnings by $0.09 per share with $0.06 of this related to Ameren Missouri and $0.03 related to Ameren Illinois.
Key factors favorably impacting the comparison of 2011 core earnings to 2010 core earnings included electric rate increases in Missouri and Illinois.
Changes in electric and gas rates net of certain related expenses increased earnings by $0.23 per share.
These rate changes included higher electric rates in Illinois effective in 2010 and an electric rate increase in Missouri effective in late July 2011.
The other key factor positively impacting earnings was lower core non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses which benefited 2011 earnings by $0.20 per share excluding the previously discussed storm restoration costs.
Turning to page 12 I would now like to discuss the key drivers and assumptions behind our 2012 earnings guidance for our Missouri and Illinois regulated utility businesses of $2.20 to $2.40 per share.
In 2012 we expect to achieve an earned return on equity of approximately 9% to 9.6% on average regulated utility common equity of approximately $6 billion.
This guidance assumes a return to normal weather reducing earnings by an estimated $0.16 per share compared to 2011 results.
While 2011 summer temperatures were milder than those experienced in 2010 2011 summer temperatures were much hotter than normal.
Weather normalized margins are expected to increase as a result of the 2011 Missouri electric rate increase and the 2012 Illinois natural gas delivery rate increase.
Our guidance also reflects the implementation of the new formula ratemaking process for our Illinois Electric delivery business.
Our earnings expectations for this business assume a formulaic midpoint allowed return on equity of 9.2% which incorporates a forecasted 2012 average 30-year treasury yield of 3.3%.
This treasury yield forecast is based on the blue chip consensus estimate as of February 1st 2012.
Finally our outlook for regulated margins assumes little growth in weather normalized electricity sales.
Regulated utility earnings guidance for 2012 incorporates increased non-fuel O&amp;M spending at our Illinois utility as we begin to implement our electric delivery modernization action plan.
At our Missouri utility we expect 2012 non-fuel O&amp;M spending to be lower than that experienced in 2011.
Headcount in Ameren Missouri and Ameren Services declined by approximately 340 at the end of 2011 as a result of the voluntary retirement program.
In addition the absence of a scheduled refueling and maintenance average at the Callaway Nuclear Energy Center in 2012 is expected to lower O&amp;M expenses by $0.10 per share.
Callaway is refueled approximately every 18 months.
Finally we expect 2012 regulated earnings to be impacted by increased depreciation and amortization expenses.
Moving to page 13 let’s now shift to a discussion of the key drivers and assumptions behind our 2012 earnings guidance for our merchant generation business.
We expect this segment to post earnings of zero to $0.10 per share this year.
The most significant driver of the expected earnings decline in 2012 compared to 2011 is a decrease in margins of $0.20 to $0.30 per share due to lower realized power and capacity prices and higher fuel and transportation related costs.
We expect our Merchant plans to generate approximately 27 million megawatt hours in 2012 with approximately 25 million megawatt hours of this sold or hedged at an average of $44 per megawatt hour.
Our guidance assumes that un-hedged expected generation is sold at current market prices.
In 2012 we anticipate having available generation of up to 32.5 million megawatt hours from our coal-fired merchant generation energy centers in the event power prices rise and support higher generation levels.
Our base load fuel and transportation related costs are about 93% hedged at approximately $24 per megawatt hour.
Finally we project 2012 merchant generation non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses will be essentially flat with those of 2011 or approximately $290 million.
Regarding key Ameren wide assumptions our earnings guidance reflects an effective consolidated income tax rate of approximately 36% and the number of common shares outstanding in 2012 is expected to average $242.6 million.
In 2012 we plan to purchase shares on the open market for a dividend reinvestment in 401-K plans.
During the past several years we have issued new shares to fund these plans.
As I close our discussion of 2012 earnings guidance I’ll remind you that any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will affect our GAAP earnings but are excluded from our GAAP earnings guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses.
Core non-GAAP earnings and guidance also exclude any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses.
Further earnings guidance are subject to the risks and uncertainties outlined or referred to in the forward-looking statements section of today’s press release.
Turning then to page 14 we provide both our actual 2011 and projected 2012 cash flow information.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our cash flows from operating activities and subtracting from it our capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and net advances for construction.
In 2011 free cash flow reached $381 million $56 million more than our November guidance.
For 2012 we anticipate free cash flow will be negative by approximately $230 million.
The decline in free cash flow primarily reflects lower cash flow from operations and higher capital spending plans.
Cash flow from operations is expected to decline in 2012 compared to 2011 as a result of lower projected core earnings at our merchant generation segment reduce tax refunds and greater utility spending subject to deferred rate recovery amongst other matters.
The higher 2012 capital expenditures reflect increased expected spending primarily at our regulated utilities.
We anticipate that our merchant generation business will be free cash flow positive in 2012 despite expected lower earnings and higher capital expenditures.
Our only material long-term debt maturity in 2012 is $173 million senior secured note at Ameren Missouri.
Moving now to page 15 impending rate cases.
As Tom mentioned in January Ameren Illinois made its initial filing under the new performance based formula rate making framework for its electric delivery business.
This initial filing is for a $19 million annual rate decrease because it is based on 2010 cost.
This rate change is to be effective in late October 2012.
However 2012 electric delivery service earnings will reflect a true-up for 2012 year-end rate base and 2012 actual cost of service and include historical ICC rate making adjustments.
The allowed return on equity will be based on the prescribed formula I discussed earlier.
Moving to page 16 in Missouri in February we filed for $376 million increase in annual electric rates with the Missouri PSC.
The filing incorporates a 10.75% return on equity a 52% equity ratio and rate base of $6.8 billion.
$103 million of this request is related to higher net fuel cost.
Note that 95% of these higher net fuel cost would be reflected in fuel adjustment clause or FAC rate adjustments absent this filing.
The request also includes $81 million to recover the annual cost including revenues to offset throughput disincentives of the three-year energy efficiency programs Ameren Missouri proposed in its MEEIA filing which Tom mentioned earlier.
As he stated our ability to move forward with our proposed energy efficiency programs will require a regulatory framework consistent with the energy efficiency legislation.
In addition to recovery of higher fuel cost and cost associated with our proposed energy efficiency programs the rate request includes recovery of investments made to improve the reliability of our aging infrastructure and to comply with renewable energy regulations as well as other cost increases.
A PSC order is expected in December of 2012 with new rates expected to be effective in January of 2013.
On page 17 we detail our new five-year regulated utility capital expenditure outlook.
In 2012 we plan to invest approximately $1.2 billion and over the four-year period from 2013 through 2016 the midpoint of aggregate capital spending is projected to be approximately $5.7 million with an annual target range of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.
The environmental expenditures embedded in this outlook are those required to meet current environmental rules and regulations including the State CSAPR and the recently issued MATS as well as our assessment of the likely impact of the coal combustion by product rules.
The pie chart on the right side of this page breaks down our five-year regulated capital spending plan by business segment and activity.
A little less than half is for Missouri with almost 30% targeted for our Illinois electric and gas delivery businesses and almost a quarter slated for FERC regulated transmission projects.
The Illinois regulated capital spending numbers reflect additional investments to modernize its electric distribution system as required by our participation in Illinois performance based formula rate program.
Moving now to page 18 here we provide an update on our 2012 and 2013 forward power sales and hedges and introduce our 2014 hedge data for our merchant generation business.
As you can see we have significant hedges in place at power prices greater than current market levels.
We already discussed our 2012 power hedges.
For 2013 we have hedged approximately 14 million megawatt hours at an average price of $40 per megawatt hour further for 2014 we have hedged approximately 7 million megawatt hours at an average price of $44 per megawatt hour.
To assist you and understanding our merchant generation business segment’s margin drivers we have provided a pie chart that breaks down our 2012 expected revenue by type.
Turning to page 19 here we update our merchant generation segment’s fuel and related transportation hedges.
We previously discussed our 2012 fuel hedges.
For 2013 we have hedged approximately 12 million megawatt hours at about $25.50 per megawatt hour.
For 2014 we have hedged approximately 5 million megawatt hours also at about $25.50 per megawatt hour.
Similar to our previous slide detailing merchant generation revenues we’ve included a pie chart that breaks down forecasted 2012 all in fuel cost to provide a perspective on how each component contributes to our overall cost.
On our final page number 20 we outlined capital expenditures for our merchant generation business for each of the next five years showing the breakdown between expenditures for maintenance and for environmental compliance.
As Tom mentioned in light of current forward power and capacity prices as well as uncertain environmental regulations we are decelerating construction of our Newton Scrubber project and removing the Edwards Helper Electrostatic Precipitator from our five-year spending forecast.
The estimated environmental expenditures in 2012 include approximately $150 million of spending on the Newton Scrubber project.
And capital expenditures in 2013 through 2016 assume approximately $20 million per year of ongoing external construction costs for this project.
Newton Scrubber project related capitalized interest and overheads are not included in the 2013 through 2016 numbers.
As you can see on this page projected environmental expenditures are quite limited over the 2013 through 2016 period.
Of course we will continue to review and adjust our merchant generation spending plans in light of evolving outlooks for power and capacity prices delivered fuel cost environmental standards and compliance technologies among other factors.
This completes our prepared remarks.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Ladies and gentlemen thank you.
We will now be conducting a question and answer session.
Thank you our first question is from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning can you hear me? Yeah Paul.
This is Marty Lyons.
Yes we can hear you now.
Listen I want to ask you...
I apologize.
That’s fine.
I just want to ask about these the delay in these merchant generation CapEx projects one in Newton and the precipitator.
Is there a operating earnings impact that’s associated with any of these MEEIAs which do you have to buy emissions or anything I mean is there any operational issue we should be thinking about in terms of this significant change in CapEx.
Right Paul.
I understand.
It’s Marty still.
No not in the near-term these projects really design to help with compliance really when you get out into the 2015 timeframe so in the near-term really no impact on operating earnings or cash flows as a result of decelerating the projects.
Okay and then with respect to just the capital expense itself delaying this and what have you is there any change in terms of the total capital expense that you would be expecting? Well I guess that’s – it’s teasing to tell I guess whether the ultimate cost of the project will change but just to give you a sense so with respect to the Newton Scrubber project through the end of 2011 we had invested about $100 million roughly in that project.
As we said on the call this coming year as we decelerate the project we do plan to take materials that have been built or material that have been commissioned a lot of those to be completed take those to the site put them in a safe store condition.
So we expect to incur about another $150 million this year in doing that.
At that point we’ll be taking the capital expenditures down to more of the minimum levels that we described in the call and continued to monitor changes in power market conditions capacity markets changes environmental rules and the like.
And certainly asses how we might absence reacceleration of that project go about complying with environmental rules out in that 2015 timeframe.
But I think Paul when you look back to the guidance we gave last fall I think the total project cost that was sort have embedded in the guidance was somewhere around $490 million for the Newton Scrubber project.
If we move to reaccelerating it some point in the future we’ll certainly provide an update on what we think the costs are that time to complete the project.
We are estimating as we sit here today if we were to reaccelerate the project at some point in the future it would probably take in the range of say 20 months to 24 months to complete the project.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes we can.
Julien this is Marty.
Thanks for joining.
Yes of course.
I just wanted to clarify a little bit more on the Merchant CapEx front just what you’re thinking about compliance with MATS and your own Illinois State specific standards 2015 and beyond I mean status quo I would imagine that it would result in some sort of operational impairment of the assets rate without putting in the CapEx I mean there is some sort of reaction in your ability to dispatch some certain units? Is that the right way to think about that? Yeah Julien.
This is Martin again.
That’s a fair assessment.
I think without the Newton Scrubbers being reaccelerate out in 2015 timeframe it’s frankly it’s really the Illinois multi-polluting standard that becomes the challenging standard for us to comply with.
As you know out in that timeframe in our fleet wide SO2 emissions need to be reduced down in the 2015 timeframe.
Between now and then we really don’t expect that we would have any forced reductions in generation levels as a result of CSAPR or multi-polluting standard or other rules.
When you get onto 2015 as it relates to MATS compliance absent the Newton Scrubber we think we have other ways to comply activated carbon and precipitators low sulfur coal and the like compliance there.
And as it turns out with the CSAPR rules obviously they’re uncertain right now because they’ve been stayed.
But based on the allowances that came out in the final rules based on our decision to shutdown Meredosia and Hutsonville the CSAPR rules really aren’t seen as a significant limitation either.
Great.
So if I were to kind of hit between lines here frankly from a compliance perspective a couple of years you could decide let’s say a couple of years down the road and still they’ll move forward.
You said 20 to 24 months there to complete the Newton Scrubber so there is still a couple of years latitude all in give or take is that kind of the right way to think about that in order to...
Yeah.
That’s fare.
We feel like as we decelerate today that we’ve got some optionality for a while before what actually impact future general levels and in the meantime we can also look at how we might go about alternatively complying with some of those rules and again assess whether a reacceleration is appropriate.
Excellent and then just a final question here on the Genco a guidance the breakeven cash flow for this year.
Are there any exceptional items there to bear in mind as we’re looking at your EPS guidance translating then to free cash flow guidance anything notable to take note of? I don’t know that there is anything notable to take note of in the – in that regard as you reconcile.
Okay.
So EPS guidance should equate to positive free cash flow? Yeah.
I think so.
I mean nothing has come into mind off hand.
We’re certainly as we mentioned in the call we’re expecting positive free cash flow overall at the Merchant business.
And I guess one think of note early in this first quarter we did sell one of our assets with Medina Valley co-gen facility a fairly small facility.
I think about $17 million and cash flow coming from that.
So that may factor into our net CapEx for this year but other than that earnings should translate into cash flow.
Great and then just tiny clarification here in terms of your guidance that for coal.
It seems like that came down a buck a megawatt hour in 2013 just wanted to clarify is that basically a lower PRB price or lower transport price.
Well it’s really a little off each Julien so the price dropped I guess from about $26.50 to $25.50.
We did increase the amount of transportation that we have hedged.
We also increased the amount of coal we have hedged and as you saw a little bit of fuel surcharge so frankly all three of those things would have gone into the mix.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Rebinoff with Fore Research and Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Can you hear me.
Yeah we are little bit flank but we think we can hear you okay.
This is Marty.
Great.
Hey Marty.
So I had a question on your cash flow going forward basically it sounds like that you have indicated that basically in 2012 you Merchant business would cash flow positive and I think you have mentioned that you’re going to get the benefit of the money pool receivables there to kind of help you with that.
So I’m kind of curious as to what that number is that that’s going to become from the Manipur receivables.
But really more interested in 2013 when obviously you’ve kind of given where the current strip is and where prices are today that Merchant business will burning I’ll call it a $100 million plus of cash.
So are you going to explicitly support that business going forward and you’ll kind of bridge that shortfall or like what’s the thinking in terms of actually helping with the casual situation post 2012.
Sure.
So let me start with the 2012 so when we talked about the Merchant business overall being cash flow positive in 2012 I’m talking about Ameren Energy Resources overall which has Genco subsidiary as well as the eight AERG subsidy area assets and overall that would be cash flow positive.
And then as you point out we said Genco which is a subsidiary of the Merchant Segment would utilize some of its Manipur receivables.
As of yearend it had about $74 million of Manipur receivables.
And we project some more in the neighborhood of around half of that might be utilized this year by Genco.
As you look out in 2014 and beyond we certainly haven’t given any cash flow guidance.
We have said before and we’ve repeated that and our goal is for the Merchant segment as well as for Genco to be able to support their cash flow needs.
And we feel like the decisions we have made here with respect to decelerating the Newton Scrubber project and deferring the precipitator at Edwards are certainly very helpful to us in achieving that goal.
Got it.
So maybe then the question really is – I mean at the end of the day I am kind of running my own math and I am sure you guys have your own projections but maybe the right question then to ask is assuming that the business is cash flow negative in 2013.
Then how would you think about the Merchant business at that point in time like you know just help us kind of think through the various options.
Well I think in the various options first of all have to do with the segment and with the way the segment operates its business.
So we are certainly going to be looking for further opportunities to reduce operating expenses to carefully and continually examine even the capital expenditures that we still have in the forecast and we’re continuously seeking opportunities to market the power that we have at above market prices.
So first and foremost we’re going to be look into that segment to provide for its own needs And like I said I do think that these capital expenditure reductions that we’ve made go a long way to helping that business cover its own cash needs over at least the next couple of years.
Got it.
Got it.
And then what about my another question as in terms of coal to gas switching Calpine last week obviously said that they were definitely seeing that in PJM are you guys seeing something similar in MISO at this point? No.
I think within MISO at least within certainly our part of MISO gas prices being as low as they are we’re seeing maybe a little bit of gas fire generation coming into the mix.
Certainly as we look ahead ourselves to this coming year we’ve talked about having about 25 million megawatt hours that we’re going to generate.
I think our coal-fired plants are going to produce about 26.5 million megawatt hours and maybe 0.5 million megawatt hours coming from our gas assets so we’re expecting a little bit more contribution this year from our gas assets.
Overall though within MISO in our part of MISO the low cost delivered PRB coal is still pretty competitive with the gas assets that exist in our part of the country.
So certainly will – with these low gas prices there will be more gas generation but I think to a lesser extent than you may be seeing in other parts of the country.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate the color.
Our next question comes from the line of David Paz with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a question on the parent level note the $425 million note are there any covenants in there that prevent you from divesting any of your segments particularly in your Merchant segment.
David it’s Marty.
I am certainly not aware of any covenants in that indenture.
Great.
And then on the Merchant power hedges and forgive me if you went through this earlier I might have missed this but just was trying to get a feel for the three to four terawatt hours that you added in your hedges in 2012 and 2013 as well as your 2014 hedges particularly 2014 was the 7 terawatt hours at the average price of $44 entered into last year or are these part of like a multiyear contracts that predate post September 30 2011.
Yeah.
David I think look we’ve been entering into those over all those periods of time so some of the contracts date back to probably pre 2012.
I don’t have the exact date but other hedges that are embedded in that mix have been entered in 2010 2011.
We have been building that hedge block and that hedge piece up over time.
Okay.
So can you give me a percentage [indiscernible].
No.
I don’t have it I don’t have a percentage breakdown.
Okay.
And on the capacity-only hedges that just closed I’m sorry did you say why that is not in the current presentation.
No I didn’t but yeah you did notice change.
Frankly we took it out.
I mean capacity revenues as you can see from the revenue breakdown at this point are unfortunately only about 1% of our overall revenue.
So breaking that out didn’t seem all that necessary at this point in time.
Certainly as those capacity revenues improve over time.
We certainly maybe break it out again.
I mean I think it’s safe David to be thinking about $15 million to $30 million of capacity only kind of revenues over the next couple of years given current prices.
As you can see it from the pie chart the majority of the capacity that we fell is embedded in some of our four requirements contact.
So the capacity only sales like I said about $15 million to $30 million is probably a safe number to put in your model.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Senshak with Decade Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
It’s actually Reza Hatefi.
Just I guess given your pretty solid CapEx program over the next few years could you talk about need for trip or dribble or equity how should we think about that over the next few years? Good question.
As you may you have picked up in our talking points we – our stop in this year issuing shares for those programs so you shouldn’t expect to see any dilution from those program this year.
However moving forward in time we will assess that on a year-to-year basis as we look at our cash flow needs to in particular finance the regulated CapEx plans that we have.
I think that to the extent that we can support these capital expenditures through reinvestment of earnings that we make in our regulated business we’ll certainly seek to do that but also at all times thinking about maintaining sort of the financial strength that we have today.
Certainly we’d like to have the equity content and our cap structure somewhere between I’d say 50% to 53% equity range.
And so our goals as we move through time are to keep that equity content solid in their balance sheet keep our credit profile strong and stable and fund these capital expenditures in a prudent way.
Hopefully you can see through time we are trying to be very careful and thoughtful about our allocation to capital and the returns we’re earnings on those capital investments.
And just a follow-up on an earlier question I guess the cash flow question on the Merchant segment a lot of things can change going forward but is it in your tool box to use any cash from the corporate segment to fund any shortfalls at the Merchant segment is that part of the potential equation? Yeah I mean it’s in the toolbox.
It’s something that we could use to do.
But as we’ve said repeatedly our goal is for the Merchant segment and for Genco to work to provide for their own cash need.
So that remains our focus.
Great thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Actually a couple of questions of the regulated side of the house.
First in the transmission spending guidance that you give five year look how backend or frontend loaded is that and if you could touch on both AIC and at ATX.
And follow up to that in Missouri you talked about trying to get a clause in this rate case that reduces lag on kind of plant being put in service.
Do you need legislative relief to actually get that done? I thought there was an used and useful clause in state regulation in Missouri.
Michael this is Marty again.
I’ll try to take both of those questions.
With respect to the transmission spend what you really ought to see with respect to the Ameren Illinois utility spend with respect to transmission it’s being more ratable over the five year period.
So you see in the pie chart that we’ve got $900 million of spend over the 2012 through 2016 period.
And as we’ve said in the call I think it’s somewhere in the neighborhood of $180 million or so that we’re spending this year so in 2012.
So you should see kind of a stable run rate over that period of time.
With respect to the transmission company spend however that $750 million that is more backend loaded.
We’re going to be working through the routing process the siding we’re working on getting an ICC certificate in place and then moving forward and so that capital spending really starts to ramp up in 2014 and more so in 2015 and then 2016.
Got it.
The Missouri regulation legislated question.
Yeah.
Your Missouri question.
What we’re proposing and I would say in this current rate case is Michael somewhat similar to the accounting treatment that we got relative to scrubber investment that we had between the time that asset went to into service and the time we got into rates.
You may recall that in that particular case we were allowed after it went into service to differ depreciation as well as caring cost on that asset from the time it went in service to the time rates became effective and what we are seeking here is something similar but allowing us to have that kind of construction accounting on a broader basis with respect to plant put in service.
Got it.
Okay thanks guys and congrats on both a good quarter.
Thank you Michael.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Reiss with Catapult.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys my questions have actually been answered already thanks.
Okay Greg thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Howard with Prospector Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Wondering about just the latest decline in prices is that kind of changed your hedging strategy at all for the Merchant business? Yeah Robert this is Marty.
No I wouldn’t say it really is affecting our hedging practices.
What we’ve really tried to focus on over the past few years – several years is working to market our power to higher margin customers and when we hedge also looking at how we get the best location if you will to minimize basis risks.
So we are still looking at putting on hedges as sales opportunities come along.
We’re still pursuing those and certainly focusing on the more higher margin opportunities that we get but we are continuing to put hedges on.
I’d say for the past year or so we’ve been putting the hedges on and operating to sort of the lower end of our hedge policy parameters but sitting here today certainly feel happy that that we did that that we’ve locked in some power prices in our hedge portfolio that are above current market prices.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then I think it was kind of related to Julien’s question earlier slightly different though.
Is there kind of a time limit that just delayed construction must be completed I mean if you don’t have it done by 16 or 17 some rule kick in that okay the plant can’t run or is there anything like that at all or can you just kind of delay indefinitely? You can’t.
This is Martin again.
You can delay in definitely but the Julien’s question and hopefully I was responsive but where you would start to see some reduction in terms of generation capability is out in the 2015 timeframe when the Illinois multi-pollutant standard has another ratchet down in terms of SO2 emission rates for the fleet.
So out in that period we absent other ways to comply might need to or would need to ratchet down to generation from our uncontrolled generating plants.
Which plants would do that how that might take place that’s all something that we have to asses and examined here over the coming months in terms of again absent the Newton scrubbers how we would best go about complying.
Okay.
And that delay that – when you made the decision to delay was that really driven by this latest decline in prices since your last call or was it kind of where you sort of on the track to come up to this decision anyways even with power prices being a little bit higher from like last fall’s levels.
Well I would say that the power prices that we’ve seen here in the first quarter to us don’t look supportive of continuing with the investment at the space we were making at.
So the prices did have a significant impact on the decision.
But also the continued low capacity prices certainly about a capacity program within MISO.
The other things though that also effected the decision where the stay of the CSAPR rules and the final match rule that came out as well as our decision last year to shut down Meredosia and Hutsonville.
Those things – shut down of Meredosia and Hutsonville changed our emissions profile for a fleet so that impacted our outlook.
The stay of CSAPR affected our outlook but again getting to your question certainly the power prices were a very factor in the decision.
There hasn’t been there’s been enough other things going on that is power prices were to certainly jump to where they were in October.
So is it necessarily enough for you to say hey we’re going to put this back on schedule? Right.
So that’s a good point.
I think that look we’re going to take the time that we’ve bought through this deceleration to really access the power markets capacity markets change in environmental rules and like I said but very closely at how we might alternatively comply with the rules that exist and make a reassessment at some point in the future.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Green Arrow.
Please proceed with the question.
Hi guys can you just give an update on what you’re seeing in the Illinois’ government aggregation market and what kind of opportunity that could be for you? Yes so that’s – good you broke up a little bit for folks that maybe couldn’t hear I think the question was about municipal aggregation in Illinois and we do see that as an opportunity frankly for the Merchant business.
We certainly as part for that business – we certainly have been very active as I said a little while ago offering our product to industrial customers large commercial and municipal customers.
And we certainly see this is an opportunity to some more generation to these aggregated municipal buyers through there are fee processes.
So when you see there is an opportunity on the Merchant side of our business.
And again we are very much focused on seeking opportunities to market and sell our power at prices that offer attractive margins about relative to say in the hub spot price.
Great.
Excellent.
This is Doug Fischer operator we have time for just one more question.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from the line of Alex Tai with Standard General.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
How are you doing? Good.
Thank you.
I just want to clarify a little bit on the timing of any decisions that’s going to be made on the CapEx spend.
You had previously said that 2015 is sort of the timeframe that you sort of have to – you have that something in place and you also said that it would take about 20 month to 24 months to complete that project if you were to reaccelerate the new scrubbers.
Just rough math at least maybe 12 months with which to decide whether or not to resume the project is that correct am I sort of thinking about this the right way? Yeah.
That’s right.
I think so as we will continue to asses I’d say that the timeframe to if we were to reaccelerate reaccelerate the project what the exact timeframe would be.
But like I said sitting here today we’re thinking it’s 20 month to 24 months so I’d say certainly sometime next year we’ll be at a point in time where we’ll be making some decision as it relates to compliance with those 2015 targets.
Got it.
And in terms of the some of the other options you had mentioned activated carbon or – I don’t specifically remember if you’ve mentioned this but dry sorbent injections what’s the lead time for converting to an alternative system for environmental combines.
I think one thing about Illinois as it relates to Mercury is we’re already are using a lot of activated carbon for compliance there already so you know that sort of underway.
In terms of DSI I can’t really sitting here today give you a timeline on what it would take to put that in place.
I think that is probably a shorter timeframe than the one we’re talking about in terms of the scrubber project.
Got it and so I guess to get a little bit more clarification if you decide to not resume the scrubber what I mean can you sort of just layout I guess a roadmap of what the other options look like? Not at this time.
I think it’s really too soon and premature to say.
I think that we’ll asses all alternatives we have with respect to compliance and look we’re talking about 2015 and certainly a lot can change in terms of forward power prices and capacity prices.
And so we’ll be assessing all of those compliance options at the same time as we’re really watching how the power markets and environmental standards unfold.
Okay.
All right.
Well thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in our call and thank you especially for your patience with our technical difficulties today.
This is Doug Fischer.
Let me remind you again that this call is available on our website for one year.
Today’s press release includes instructions on listening to the playback telephonically or accessing it on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Brian Bretsch.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren Corporation.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation’s First Quarter 2012 Earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
If anyone should require operator assistance during the conference please press star zero on your telephone keypad.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Voss; our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Marty Lyons and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at Ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the investor section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors section in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of first quarter 2012 earnings and 2012 guidance followed by a discussion of recent regulatory and business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of first quarter 2012 financial results as well as regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here is Tom who will start on Page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced a first quarter 2012 net loss in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP of $1.66 per share compared to first quarter 2011 GAAP net income of $0.29 per share.
This first quarter 2012 GAAP net loss included a non-cash pre-tax asset impairment charge of $628 million related to the write-down of our Duck Creek merchant generation energy center which was triggered by the first quarter 2012 sharp decline in forward prices for electricity.
Excluding the impacts of this charge a related tax adjustment and mark-to-market activity first quarter 2012 core results were positive with earnings of $0.22 per share compared to first quarter 2011 core earnings of $0.25 per share.
The decrease in first quarter 2012 core earnings compared to first quarter 2011 core earnings primarily reflected the impact of warm winter weather on our regulated utility electric and natural gas sales.
First quarter 2012 winter temperatures were among the warmest on record with heating degree days approximately 30% fewer than those experienced in the year-ago quarter.
As a result kilowatt hour sales of electricity to weather-sensitive residential and commercial utility customers declined 9%.
Natural gas sales were also negatively impacted by the much warmer weather with first quarter 2012 volumes down 21% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
In total we estimate that warmer temperatures reduced first quarter 2012 earnings by $0.13 per share compared to the first quarter of 2011 and by $0.10 per share compared to normal.
On a positive note kilowatt hour sales to industrial customers rose 5% compared to the first quarter of 2011 a sign of economic improvement in our region.
A second key driver of lower first quarter 2012 core earnings compared to the year-ago quarter was reduced margins in the merchant generation segment.
The decreased margins reflected reduced generation to the merchant segment due to lower market prices for electricity.
The effects of the warm weather and lower merchant margins were partially offset by increased electric utility rates in Missouri increased natural gas delivery rates in Illinois and lower non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses including reduced storm-related costs.
Turning now to Page 4 today we are affirming our core earnings guidance range of $2.20 to $2.50 per share for this year.
The much warmer than normal weather led us to reduce core guidance for our regulated utility business by $0.05 per share at both the high and low ends of the range to $2.15 to $2.35 per share.
This reduction in earnings guidance for the utilities is offset by an increase in the core guidance range for our merchant generation business segment of $0.05 per share at both the high and low ends of the range to $0.05 to $0.15 per share.
The increase in merchant generation guidance primarily reflects lower expected depreciation expense due to the write-down of the Duck Creek energy center.
I would now like review some of our business plans and some recent business developments at our regulated and merchant generation businesses.
Moving to Page 5 and our strategy for regulated businesses we continue to believe that modern constructive regulatory frameworks which provide timely cash flows and a reasonable opportunity to earn fair returns on investments are clearly in the best long-term interest of our customers in the states in which we operate.
These frameworks support our ability to attract capital on terms which facilitate timely investment in order to modernize our regulated companies’ aging infrastructure.
Such investments enhance reliability and the quality of service we can deliver to our customers and also help create good paying jobs.
Further these investments help us meet our customers’ and states’ energy needs and expectations which ultimately drive higher levels of customer satisfaction.
Constructive formula ratemaking is in place for both our Ameren Illinois electric delivery service and our FERC-regulated electric transmission business.
As a result we are able to move forward with plans to invest meaningful incremental capital in these businesses.
Over the next 10 years our Illinois electric delivery business plans to invest $625 million over and above levels we have been spending in recent years and create 450 jobs during the peak program year.
The improved infrastructure resulting from this investment will enhance reliability and provide customers with the energy usage options made possible by smart meters.
At our electric transmission businesses the need to replace aging infrastructure and improve the capacity of the high-voltage highway in our region coupled with the constructive formula ratemaking utilized by the FERC are driving our plans to invest approximately $1.7 billion in transmission projects over a five-year period ending in 2016.
I am pleased to report two recent positive developments related to these transmission growth plans.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved forward test year rate treatment for Ameren Transmission Company or ATX effective March 1 2012; and on May 1 we began our public participation process on route design for ATX’s $800 million-plus Illinois Rivers project a MISO multi-value regional line.
This process is required prior to our filing for a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the project with the ICC a filing we plan to make in the fourth quarter of this year.
In Missouri however we continue to see the need to enhance the existing regulatory framework to support investments in our aging infrastructure and to meet our customers’ rising expectations as well as to provide our company timely cash flows and a reasonable opportunity to earn a fair return on those investments.
One approach we are pursuing is through the regulatory process.
In particular we’ve made several proposals in our pending electric rate case designed to enhance the existing framework.
First we are seeking approval of a storm cost tracking mechanism that would provide the opportunity to recover costs to restore service after major storms in a manner that is fair to both our customers and our investors.
Second we are seeking approval of a new plant-in-service accounting proposal.
This proposal is designed to reduce the impact of regulatory lag on earnings and future cash flows related to assets placed in service between cases.
And finally in January we made a filing under the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act or MEEIA and requested an enhancement to the existing regulatory framework for energy efficiency programs and the related throughput disincentives that result from these programs.
In the interim we continue to better align the level of our spending with the monies provided through the existing regulatory process as well as with economic conditions.
In summary if our utilities have modern constructive regulatory frameworks in place we will be able to increase investment to modernize aging infrastructure allowing us to better meet customers’ expectations for higher quality service and create good paying jobs for our local economy.
That is why we are allocating increasing amounts of capital to Illinois electric delivery service and FERC-regulated transmission projects.
On Page 6 we illustrate our plans to allocate increasing amounts of investment dollars to these two businesses in the five-year period ending in 2016 compared to the prior five-year period ending in 2015.
As you can see we have increased our spending plans for the Illinois regulated electric and gas delivery services by approximately $400 million from the prior five-year period primarily reflecting the increased spending on electric delivery service that I mentioned a few moments ago.
We have increased our spending plans for transmission by approximately $500 million from the prior five-year period; meanwhile our spending plans for the Missouri electric utility business for the five years ending in 2016 are essentially flat.
I want to be clear that I recognize that in all circumstances it is our obligation to provide safe and adequate service to our customers and we have certain minimum expenditures we must make.
Those investments have been and will continue to be made.
Turning to Page 7 here we translate the capital spending plans we just discussed into regulated rate base.
We expect growth of approximately 6% annually over the 2012 to 2016 period.
Further this growth is skewed toward regulatory jurisdictions with constructive formula ratemaking.
We believe this will enhance our ability to earn fair returns on our utility investments.
Moving to Page 8 as we are taking steps today to address our aging infrastructure keep our service reliable and our rates competitive we are also looking to the future to be sure that our company is well positioned to meet our customers’ and our states’ long-term energy needs.
In light of our aging coal fleet along with continued uncertainties with environmental regulations and commodity prices we believe it is prudent to maintain effective resource options for the future.
As a result we announced just a couple weeks ago that Ameren Missouri has entered into agreement with Westinghouse Electric Company a world leader in nuclear technology and development.
Under our agreement we will exclusively support Westinghouse’s application to the Department of Energy for funds to support the design and commercialization of American-made small modular reactors for the United States and for the rest of the world.
This agreement is consistent with our commitment to maintain nuclear energy as an important option to meet Missouri’s future energy needs.
In addition it presents Missouri with significant economic development and job creation opportunities.
In essence Missouri could ultimately become the hub for the design development and manufacture of American-made small modular nuclear reactors.
Our alliance with Westinghouse has broad statewide support including every electric utility provider in the state Governor Nixon a bipartisan group of federal and state legislative leaders labor businesses universities and others.
The potential DOE funding when combined with our investment to date in new nuclear development and our agreement with Westinghouse provides Ameren Missouri with the opportunity to obtain a nuclear combined construction and operating license or COL from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a small modular reactor at the Callaway site with minimal incremental investment.
Obtaining a COL would preserve an important energy option for Ameren Missouri and its customers and be a viable long-term asset.
Pursuing and obtaining a COL does not obligate our company to build a nuclear plant but it does preserve an important energy option and positions Missouri to move forward in a timely fashion should conditions be right to build a small modular reactor in the future.
The grant application will be submitted this month and we expect the Department of Energy to make their decision later this summer.
Turning to Page 9 I will conclude my prepared remarks with an update on our merchant generation business.
We have sold forward or hedged all of our expected 2012 merchant generation output at prices above current market levels.
As a result we continue to expect our merchant generation segment to be free cash flow positive this year and for Ameren Energy Generating Company or Genco to provide for its own cash needs with the benefit of existing money pool receivables.
However as we look beyond 2012 we cannot ignore the potential negative impact of low energy and capacity prices on our cash flows.
As you are aware in early 2012 there was a sharp decline in forward power prices.
In response in February we announced an approximately $270 million reduction in capital spending plans for our merchant generation business for the years 2012 through 2014.
In the first quarter decline in power prices also led to the write-down of our Duck Creek energy center which I mentioned earlier.
More recently we have taken several additional actions to better position our merchant generation business to weather the current period of very low power prices.
In late March Genco entered into a put option agreement with an affiliate.
The agreement provides Genco with an additional source of liquidity if such liquidity is needed in the future.
It remains our goal for the merchant generation business segment and Genco to provide for their own cash needs.
In a second recent action just yesterday our merchant generation business filed a request for a variance from the Illinois Multi-Pollutant Standard or MPS with the Illinois Pollution Control Board.
In our petition we are seeking additional time to comply with sulfur dioxide emission levels currently set to become effective January 1 2015.
In exchange for delaying compliance with these levels through 2020 we have proposed a plan that restricts our sulfur dioxide emissions through 2014 to levels lower than those required by the existing MPS offsetting any environmental impact from the variance.
We have indicated to the Pollution Control Board that if we are not granted the variance or power prices do not materially increase there is a significant risk that we’ll have to mothball some of our unscrubbed merchant generation coal-fired energy centers beginning in 2015.
The Pollution Control Board is expected to rule on our request by late summer 2012.
Now I will turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Page 10 of the presentation today we reported a first quarter 2012 GAAP loss of $1.66 per share compared to first quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $0.29 per share.
Excluding certain items in each year Ameren recorded first quarter 2012 core earnings of $0.22 per share compared with first quarter 2011 core earnings of $0.25 per share.
First quarter 2012 core earnings excluded three items that are included in GAAP earnings.
The largest of these non-core items was the non-cash asset impairment charge in our merchant generation business that Tom mentioned earlier.
The triggering event for this impairment was the sharp decline in power prices which occurred during the first quarter of 2012.
Specifically we recognized a $628 million pre-tax non-cash impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of our Duck Creek energy center to its estimated fair value.
This reduced earnings by $1.55 per share.
The second non-core item was a non-cash quarterly reduction in the income tax benefit recognized in conjunction with the Duck Creek asset impairment.
This reduction in income tax benefit was the result of a combination of seasonally low first quarter earnings with the GAAP requirement to recognize income tax expense using the annual estimated effective income tax rate.
This item decreased net income by $0.36 per share in the first quarter of 2012 and is projected to fully reverse over the balance of this year.
I note that the effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 24% on a GAAP basis while on a core basis we continue to expect a 2012 rate of approximately 36%.
The last non-core item is a $0.03 per share gain from the net effect of unrealized mark-to-market activity.
On Page 11 we highlight key factors driving the variance between core earnings per share for the first quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Key factors adversely affecting the comparison included a decline in margins at our regulated utilities of $0.14 per share after excluding rate changes.
We estimate that $0.13 of this $0.14 decline in utility margins was due to lower retail sales as a result of the near-record warm winter temperatures.
The decline in margins at the merchant generation business reduced earnings by $0.05 per share reflecting reduced generation levels due to low spot market prices for energy and higher per megawatt hour fuel and transportation-related expenses.
The reduction in first quarter 2012 earnings compared to the first quarter of 2011 also reflected a one-time contribution to the Illinois Science and Energy Innovation Trust related to Ameren Illinois Company’s participation in the state’s electric delivery formula ratemaking framework.
This $7.5 million pre-tax contribution which is not recoverable in rates reduced earnings by $0.02 per share.
Key factors favorably impacting the comparison of first quarter 2012 core earnings to the first quarter 2011 core earnings included changes in electric and gas rates net of certain related expenses which increased earnings by $0.06 per share.
These rates changes included an electric rate increase in Missouri effective in late July 2011 and a gas delivery rate increase in Illinois effective in January 2012.
A second factor favorably impacting the earnings comparison was the recognition of revenue related to the Illinois electric delivery formula ratemaking.
In the first quarter of 2012 Ameren Illinois recorded a regulatory asset of $12 million with a corresponding increase in electric revenues.
The revenue recognized represents our estimate of future cash flows expected to be collected in order to recover first quarter operating costs and in formulaic returns on Illinois electric delivery investments.
We will continue to adjust revenues in the associated regulatory asset over the remainder of the year such that at the end of the year these amounts represent Ameren Illinois’ estimate of future cash flows expected to be approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission through the annual formula rate update process.
I’ll discuss this process more in a moment.
The final positive factor I would like to mention is lower core non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses which benefited the earnings comparison by $0.09 per share with $0.05 of this due to lower storm-related costs.
Turning now to Page 12 today we are also affirming our 2012 cash flow guidance.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our projected cash flows from operating activities and subtracting from it expected capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and net advances for construction.
For 2012 we continue to anticipate that free cash flow will be negative by approximately $230 million; however as Tom stated we are also continuing to expect that our merchant generation business will be free cash flow positive.
Turning now to Page 13 and back to a discussion of Illinois formula ratemaking – since January of this year we have made a series of regulatory filings required by law based on Ameren Illinois’ election to participate in Illinois’ new performance-based formula ratemaking process for electric delivery service.
While the results of certain of these filings which I will discuss in a minute will establish the level of rates charged to customers in late 2012 and 2013 I want to emphasize that full-year 2012 Illinois electric delivery earnings will reflect a true-up for 2012 rate base and actual cost of service and include historical ICC ratemaking adjustments.
The same will be true in 2013.
The return on equity recognized in 2012 will be based on the 2012 12-month average of 30-year treasury yields plus 590 basis points with a plus or minus 50 basis point collar.
To the extent that revenues and regulatory assets are recognized in 2012 in accordance with our formula ratemaking expectations they will be subject to ICC review and recovery will occur in 2014 as shown on the timeline.
Moving now to Page 14 Ameren Illinois’ January initial filing under the performance-based formula ratemaking framework for electric delivery service was based on 2010 actual costs and 2011 and 2012 expected net plant additions.
The filing called for a $19 million annual rate decrease.
In April the ICC staff and other intervenors filed their direct testimony in this case.
The ICC staff has recommended that rates be decreased by $6 million annually more than Ameren Illinois has proposed.
This variance between our request and the staff’s recommendation primarily reflects a lower calculation of 2010 capitalization primarily lower 2010 average common equity.
On Page 15 we have summarized the positions of the other major intervenors in the case.
The revenue requirement recommended by these parties range from 24 to $37 million lower than our filing with 14 to $22 million of this difference reflecting the incorporation of estimated 2011 and 2012 accumulated deferred income taxes which are direct reductions to rate base  Since rates and earnings will be trued up for actual rate base these adjustments for accumulated deferred income taxes are not expected to impact our reported earnings; however we and the intervenors in this case do have different views on another issue related to the rate base amount to be used in the eventual true-up calculation.
We argue that the legislation specifies that the true-up for a given year should be based on actual rate base at the end of the year.
The ICC staff and other intervenors recommend that the ICC use average rate base for that year for the true-up.
In an unrelated matter the Attorney General has recommended an additional $7 million revenue reduction by crediting Ameren Illinois’ electric delivery cost to service with the benefit of the full amount of electric late payment revenue including the over 50% related to power supply rather than just the portion related to delivery service.
Finally the Illinois industrial energy customers are recommending limiting the common equity ratio to 50% rather than the amount in our filing.
We strongly believe that the rate formula does not permit such a limitation of the equity ratio and thus consider this proposed adjustment unjustified.
The ICC administrative law judge are expected to issue their proposed order in this case in August with an ICC decision expected in late September and new rates to be effective in late October 2012.
Turning to Page 16 in April Ameren Illinois made its initial annual electric delivery formula rate update filing.
This filing calls for an incremental $15 million annual rate decrease compared to the rates filed in January and is based on 2011 actual costs and 2012 expected net plant additions.
The rate filing calls for a reduction in rates beyond those filed in January primarily because of lower rate base and return on equity.
The $128 million lower rate base in this filing compared to the January filing reflects the incorporation of 2011 accumulated deferred income taxes including bonus depreciation.
Under the formula rate template accumulated deferred income taxes for the prior year – in this case 2011 – are not incorporated into rate base estimate until the spring update rate filing each year.
However once again it is important to understand that the earnings for a given year will be trued up to that year’s actual rate base which will include the deduction for actual accumulated deferred income taxes for that given year.
The electric delivery rates established in this case will be effective in January 2013.
On these next two pages 17 and 18 we remind you of the highlights of the pending Missouri electric rate case.
At the bottom of Page 18 are the key dates in the rate case schedule.
The Missouri Public Service Commission staff and other intervenors are required to file direct testimony on revenue requirements by July 6 and a PSC order is expected in December 2012 with new rates expected to be effective in January 2013.
Moving now to Page 19 here we provide an update of our 2012 through 2014 forward power sales and hedges for our merchant generation business.
Before we move to the updated hedge numbers at the top of the page we indicate that expected 2012 merchant generation is approximately 25.5 million megawatt hours as of the end of the first quarter.
This is down approximately 1.5 million megawatt hours from the estimate we shared with you on our February call and reflects our expectation that we will more aggressively cycle our base load generation stations in order to improve overall margins in this weak power price environment.
You will also note that for 2012 we have hedged an amount greater than our expected generation – approximately 27.5 million megawatt hours.
This amount is hedged at an average price of $43 per megawatt hour.
The approximately 2 million megawatt hours of hedging in excess of expected generation is expected to be settled on a profitable basis using financial instruments or additional generation to the extent power prices improve.
Moving to 2013 we have now hedged approximately 19 million megawatt hours at an average price of $37 per megawatt hour.
Further for 2014 we have hedged approximately 11 million megawatt hours at an average price of $38 per megawatt hour.
To assist you in understanding our merchant generation business segment’s margin drivers we have provided a pie chart that breaks down our 2012 expected revenue by type.
Finally turning to Page 20 here we update our merchant generation segment’s fuel and related transportation hedges.
For 2012 we have hedged approximately 25 million megawatt hours at about $24 per megawatt hour.
For 2013 we have hedged approximately 18 million megawatt hours at about $24.50 per megawatt hour approximately $1 per megawatt hour less than the number we provided in February.
For 2014 we’ve now hedged approximately 9 million megawatt hours at about $24.50 per megawatt hour again approximately $1 per megawatt hour less than the number we shared with you in February.
Similar to our previous slide detailing merchant generation revenues we have included a pie chart that breaks down forecasted 2012 all-in fuel costs to provide perspective on how each component contributes to our overall cost.
This completes our prepared remarks.
Can you just give the drivers behind the revised guidance kind of what drove merchant up?  I guess it was weather that took the regulated down.
Sure Paul this is Marty.
In terms of the overall guidance obviously the guidance is affirmed and unchanged; but within the guidance the regulated upper and lower ends came down about $0.05.
In merchant lower and upper ends went up by about $0.05 and they netted out obviously.
The big driver for the quarter really in the regulated business was weather as you heard on the call.
Weather impacted our earnings negatively versus last year by about an estimated $0.13 and versus normal about $0.10.
We had very warm winter weather and it was that $0.10 weather variance versus normal that caused us to move our guidance down for the regulated businesses by about $0.05.
On the merchant side our guidance had been zero to $0.10 of earnings.
We moved it up to $0.05 to $0.15.
As a result of the impairment of our Duck Creek energy center depreciation expense will actually be lower going forward and so the increase in our guidance for merchant reflects that reduction in depreciation expense.
And is there any precedent for delaying the environmental that you’ve proposed? This is Marty again.
The Illinois Pollution Control Board who we’ve filed with has a history of weighing a number of things – impacts of a proposed variance to the environment as well as the cost of coming into compliance and economic impacts of the compliance plan that is either planned or the alternatives to that plan.
So they have a history of balancing environmental issues with economic issues and there has been precedent in the state for variances to be granted.
In fact there’s some precedent even here with us where variances have in the past been granted by the Pollution Control Board.
So we’re optimistic that our proposed plan will be received favorably by the Board.
And how is the interplay with EPA regs? Well as you know some of those EPA regs are a bit in flux as we saw the appeal of the CSAPR rules and then the MATS rules come into play later down the line.
You may recall as a result of our compliance with the Illinois multi-pollutant standard we’ve made significant investments in environmental controls.
We burn low-sulfur Powder River Basin coal.
We control mercury through the use of activated carbon.
We’ve got a lot of controls in our plants and those controls those investments are positioning us well in our merchant business for compliance with MATS and then we’ll see how CSAPR evolves although we feel like we were positioned well for compliance with the CSAPR rules that existed before as a result again of our use of Powder River Basin coal the scrubbers we have on some of our plants as well as the decision last year to shut down a couple of our older uncontrolled plants.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes Paul we can.
Good morning.
With respect to the $0.36 of tax adjustment that gets fully reversed is that going to be showing up in operating earnings going forward for the rest of the year? No.
Let me describe what that is.
Basically what it is from a GAAP accounting standard we’re required to book to the estimated end of year effective tax rate which given the impairment charge that we took and projecting out to the end of the year we’re forecasting about a 24.5% effective tax rate.
So we’re required to book to that in the first quarter.
Because our earnings excluding the impairment charge are seasonal and heavily weighted towards the third quarter the earnings in the first quarter excluding the impairment charge are pretty low.
So when you take that impairment charge and you tax effect it at say a 40% kind of effective tax rate it has the effect of really pushing the effective tax rate down for the quarter down to a very low level.
So we had to—we described the decrease to the benefit of the Duck Creek impairment tax effect basically increased the effective tax rate up to that 24.5% level in the first quarter.
But between now and the end of the year and likely between now and the end of the third quarter that will reverse out.
And will that show up in earnings? Well yes it would show up in GAAP earnings but not core.
Okay but it won’t be showing up in core earnings.
And the $0.05 that’s for the three quarters ended—I’m sorry the last three quarters of this year and I guess the full-year impact will just be—you know we just annualized that impact?  Is that how we should think about it? Are you talking about the depreciation from— Yes the deprecation from Duck Creek yeah.
Yeah it’s about—Paul it’s about $25 million so I think that’s probably about $0.06 per share so the $0.05 per share is really this current year expected impact.
And why only Duck Creek?  That was the only one that was impaired.
Is that because of pollution control equipment or how should we think of that? Well you’re right Paul.
That’s exactly right; it’s part of the answer anyway.
When you do an impairment test from an accounting perspective first you look at the expected gross cash flows undiscounted over the remaining lives of the generating assets and then compare it to the carrying values.
The Duck Creek facility did have a high book value or carrying value per megawatt and that was really a function as you mention of the environmental equipment that is on that plant and that we invested in.
But also you might recall Paul that generating unit was actually acquired when Ameren acquired CILCORP years ago and as a result at that time in purchase accounting that plant was written up to its then fair value.
So it had a higher book value as a result of that purchase accounting and then on top of that the investments were made for environmental controls so it had a fairly high book value compared to our other plants.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Good morning.
Two follow-up questions – first is if the Illinois regulators make a decision on the environmental issues is that going to be precedent-setting for the state or do you think it’s just limited to your request? Well I think it’s specific to our request.
As I said earlier I think there is precedent for the Pollution Control Board to grant variances like the one we have requested so I don’t think it’s precedent-setting in terms of the Pollution Control Board ruling favorably in terms of our specific request.
But I don’t think that then would apply to others.
It’s really an Ameren Energy Resources specific variance request.
Okay and just as a follow-up from Paul Ridzon’s question if CSAPR rules are not changed can you get to 2020 without having to scrub? Well I think we’re positioned pretty well for those rules.
I guess I don’t have the data here in front of me to say whether we’ll well positioned all the way out through 2020 or what some of the impacts may be but we are positioned well for it again as I mentioned earlier for the reasons I mentioned earlier.
When we looked at the emission allowances or the credits that we had as a result of the shut down of the Meredosia and the Hutsonville facilities we did last year as well as the pollution control equipment we have in place and the use of the Powder River basin coal so we’re positioned well.
We’ll see what happens with the CSAPR rules where they come out; but again I talked about this on the February call when we looked at the deceleration of the Newton scrubber when we looked at the rules that were most restrictive for us out in that 2015 time frame it was the Illinois multi-pollutant standard that was the significant limitation absent the scrubbers.
Okay thank you.
Hi Marty how are you doing?  Marty I just wanted to understand—I guess Genco’s doing really well in terms of free cash flow this year but the hedging slide that you gave us updated kind of nearly shows if one puts in the remaining non-hedged portion that the price could be dropping something like $9 or $10 on a base around ’12 to ’13 which would imply that the business becomes negative cash flow next year.
So can you tell me what is the plan – is the parent going to provide or how are we going to address this negative cash flow going forward?   What is the strategy behind funding the business? Sure Ashar.
I think Ashar we’re still focused on the merchant business and Genco maintaining an ability to meet its own cash needs and to stay cash flow positive so we haven’t given any guidance yet so I’m—I know you’ve got your own model I’m not going to comment on the figures you threw out.
But that is our goal that is our focus and as you saw earlier this quarter we did put in place a put option that to the extent Genco found itself needing financial resources could put its gas-fired assets over to its affiliate for an immediate $100 million of cash and then that would be trued up to fair value so that it would actually receive fair value for the assets.
That’s consistent with one of the things that we’ve been talking about for a number of quarters that Genco does have certain assets that it could sell.
We have as you’ve seen over the past couple of years we’ve sold some of our smaller gas-fired units and that’s an option for Genco to the extent that it did need to raise cash as a fall-back.
But it’s certainly focused on trying to reduce its capital expenditures reduce operating costs continuing to work to market its power to higher margin customers and meet its own cash needs.
Okay but does the parent in terms of the write-down—or I guess what you’re saying is you’re going to sell the assets to fund it or does the parent need equity to fund it as well going forward?  Is it going to be a combination of both or it’s just the Genco selling assets and plugging the hole? Well Ashar I guess the answer I’m trying to convey is first and foremost they’re going to try to manage operating costs and capital expenditures to work towards a cash flow positive situation.
With respect to Genco it could then pursue sales of assets if needed to generate cash and those are the primary focus areas.
In terms of the impairment the impairment was not a Genco asset; it was an energy resources asset but over in the AERG subsidiary so the impairment really didn’t affect Genco the legal entity.
It basically rolls up and impacts only Ameren’s financial statements and as you see today nearly 52% equity in our total capital structure after the write-off and we have plenty of liquidity – over $2 billion of liquidity.
So really no impact on cash.
Our equity content and our cap structure remain strong and so overall don’t see a need for additional equity at this point.
Okay thank you so much.
Good morning.
I have a question just a follow-up on Ashar’s question.
If the Genco put option is exercised would AERG issue its own debt or would it borrow from the parent? Yeah David – no AERG would borrow from the parent.
AERG doesn’t have any borrowing capacity of its own so it could borrow from the parent but then the idea David is that AERG would be buying those assets from Genco at fair value and could turn around and sell those assets at that price generate the cash and pay down that borrowing.
So that’s the idea of it – that if some amount of money goes into Genco for those assets an equivalent amount of value comes out in the form of power plants which could then be resold to pay down the debt.
Got it okay.
My original question was on dividend policy – I’m curious if you have an update how should we think about dividend policy going forward.
I know you have 6% or roughly 6% rate base growth.
Should we expect continued dividend growth? This is Tom Voss.
You know we really haven’t articulated a dividend growth policy but it’s management’s objective to continue to grow our utility earnings by making disciplined investments in the utility infrastructure and as we grow the earnings and cash flows of the regulated business we’ll continue then hopefully to grow the dividend.
But any future increase will be a Board decision and it will be based on our recent financial performance and current financial position as well as our outlook for earnings cash flows and financial position.
Now is that outlook to earnings exclusive to regulated or is it overall? Regulated earnings.
Great.
Okay thank you.
Hi thank you.
I guess you have a great utility rate base kegger but I assume that’s probably running a little negative cash flow and then we’ll see what happens with the merchant segment.
How should we think about financing over the next two three years to achieve this rate base kegger?  Do you need to reinstitute the DRIP-dribble or will there be equity in 2013 ’14?  How is that going to get financed I guess? Good morning Reza this is Marty.
I think when you look out and you do your modeling I think you should assume that over time we’re going to look to keep the equity content in our cap structure in alignment with generally where it is.
I’ve talked about this before – generally in that 50 to 53% kind of equity content in the total capital structure.
So as we move through time we’ll want to keep a strong balance sheet and a strong equity content in our cap structure.
As you know we don’t have the DRIP-dribble program currently issuing any new shares but as we said I think on our first quarter call that that’s something that we’ll evaluate on a year-to-year basis; and to the extent that equity is needed to keep the balance sheets of our utilities in that strong and that kind of category that I mentioned we’ll certainly act to do that.
But it’s important when you look out over time to remember that these businesses do generate significant earnings each year over and above that which is paid out in dividends so there’s the ability to reinvest retained earnings over time.
And I’d also point out that you see the 6% kegger in the overall rate base but you’ve also got an allocation going to those jurisdictions that have formulaic ratemaking which over time should allow us to continue to bring up our blended earned ROE on that rate base.
So in addition to the 6% rate base you’ll hopefully also see a little bit of growth in the blended average earned returns which helps as well.
And then just finally kind of thinking about your regulated earnings power should I just basically take this new rate base slide and use that or is there anything else that I’m missing in terms of getting your regulated earnings power? No I think you’re on the right track.
I think we just talked about a few things that you would have to consider and that’s the rate base growth the allocation of the capital to the various jurisdictions and how that affects the blended earned ROE and then over time as you model it out how we would go about financing that which again I said largely would be through reinvestment of retained earnings some debt financing and then depending on your model some consideration of additional equity but the objective getting to that 50 to 53% equity ratio.
Okay thank you very much.
Hey guys.
Congrats on a good quarter and obviously in terms of some of the regulatory improvements you’ve made in your jurisdictions over the last couple of years.
O&amp;M – can you talk—I just want to make sure I understand – year-over-year from 2011 to 2012 both at the regulated side and at the merchant side what’s embedded in guidance for year-over-year changes in O&amp;M.
Thanks Michael.
I think we would refer you back to the first quarter call transcript but I think when you look at overall it’s in Missouri you’re seeing actually a trend down in O&amp;M.
You’ll recall that late last year we actually had a voluntary retirement or severance plan that ended up having about a 340 headcount reduction overall between Ameren Missouri as well as our business in corporate services area.
So that’s rolling through in terms of cost savings this year.
For the merchant business we actually kind of gave out a specific number that was down a little bit from the prior year which was about—an expectation of O&amp;M expense of about $290 million.
Again like I said it’s a little bit down from last year.
And then in Illinois I think the important thing to remember there is whatever the O&amp;M costs are those will actually be included in the formula ratemaking adjustment that we book this year.
So whether they were to go up or down it would result in more or less revenue being recognized under the formulaic rate adjustment.
We do expect those O&amp;M expenses however to go up as we are ramping up to meet the requirements of the law in terms of investments and job creation.
So those O&amp;M expenses are going up in Illinois this year.
Okay.
And thinking about Illinois in your guidance what rate base is assumed in guidance for 2012 and what earned ROE level is assumed in your guidance level for this year? I’ll see whether somebody has the rate base number – I don’t have that off the top.
But we did—you know Michael overall in terms of the ROE the midpoint of our ROE reflects about a 9.2% earned ROE or assumed earned ROE in Illinois.
That assumes average treasury yields of about 3.3% for the year so that’s the ROE that we had embedded as a midpoint.
You’ll recall that there is a—you know where the ROE actually ends at the end of the year will be a function of where the 30-year treasury yields actually go over the course of the year and then there’s a plus or minus 50 basis point collar on that ROE.
One thing I might mention is that that plus or minus 50 basis point collar equates to about a plus or minus $0.025 per share so there’s a band or a collar on the ROE based again on the formula.
One of the things I’d point you to just in terms of rate base was that in our January 3 filing – and this was on Slide 14 – the rate base in that January 3 filing was about 2.16 billion actually shown on that slide.
What that represented was the rate base from the 2010 FERC Form 1 plus 2011 and 2012 net plant additions.
And then what that wouldn’t reflect is simply adjustments to the deferred tax balances.
Got it because I noticed that in the Com Madison (ph) filing process there was about a $500 million difference in the rate base between the ALHA order and a lot of the company and even the intervenors which has a significant impact.
Are you guys facing a similar issue? I would say Michael that it’s probably in the $200 million range for us I would believe.
The other thing to remember about Illinois and that’s just we’re talking about the electric delivery rate base.
You’ve also of course got the gas rate base that we’re earning on as well as the transmission rate base in Illinois so that’s not total Illinois rate base.
Understood.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Hey guys good morning.
Just a quick question – I wanted to go back to CSAPR one more time.
I just wanted to make sure that I understand what you were trying to convey.
So basically you guys said you are well positioned for CSAPR.
So what does that mean exactly then?  I guess if Illinois does not approve—sorry if Illinois does approve your request would you have to spend any more money on CAPEX beyond what you’ve told us already or is that going to be it?  And then I guess how do we think about what you mentioned on the last call in terms of having to start thinking about the scrubbers for Newton by the end of this year maybe early next year? Yeah sure.
You know I think in terms of CSAPR again when we looked out to 2015 absent the Newton scrubber and if the multi-pollutant standard wasn’t in place we believe we were positioned well for compliance with CSAPR and don’t believe the Newton scrubber would be needed to meet the CSAPR requirements.
That’s why we’re very focused on the multi-pollutant standard variance and relief.
Your question about the considerations around the Newton scrubber – obviously we’re pursuing this relief from the Pollution Control Board relative to the MPS.
Absent that relief we would be sort of back to where we were I would say when we last talked on our year-end earnings call which would be that we believe that if we reaccelerate the scrubber project it would take about 20 to 24 months to complete that; and again the way the multi-pollutant standard currently works there’s a ratchet down in terms of SO2 emissions out in the 2015 time frame.
So sometime in the first half of next year is sort of the point that is critical and if we decided to reaccelerate sometime in the first half of next year we’d be in a position to have the scrubbers in place the first half of 2015.
But again there are a lot of factors we’ll consider in making that evaluation and making that decision.
Today as we’ve said market prices and capacity prices just don’t seem to justify completion of that scrubber and we’ll continue to evaluate things as we move through time.
Okay got it.
And so then a quick follow-up question – I guess it’s the Illinois Pollution Control Board that will have to opine on your request.
Now is the MISO—or I guess does the MISO have a say in this at all or no? No I don’t believe so.
Okay got it.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
Hi guys good morning.
I actually just wanted to follow up on Tom’s question there.
Specifically you said that you probably will not need a scrubber if you comply you believe with the EPA regs.
So what about other forms of capital expenditure?  Would you need anything else or do you think you’re all set period? You were breaking up a little bit but I think your question was would the capital expenditures that we’ve got or the pollution control equipment that’s in place we’d be sort of all set.
I think the answer is yes.
We’ve made significant investments in pollution control equipment.
We’re incurring significant O&amp;M costs today for compliance with the multi-pollutant standard and those things position us well in terms of the federal air emissions rules that we’re aware of today.
Got it okay.
So it really is only the state pollution rules that are imposing the need for new environmental capital expenditures? Well yes for this Newton scrubber project that’s right; and again I’d refer you to our five-year CAPEX plans that we put out in our 10-K and you’ll see them updated in the 10-Q but really no change.
Based on the equipment we’ve got in place the capital expenditure plans we’ve laid out we believe we’ll be positioned well.
Okay.
And this is a slightly different but same line of questioning I guess – you’ve disclosed that you’ve increased the hedges on the merchant generating segment.
Is there any breakdown of where those new hedges are?  Are they within the Genco or within AERG? Yeah no breakdown there.
You know they’re AER overall hedges.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thank you guys.
This is Doug Fischer.
Operator we’ve exceeded our scheduled hour but I think we’ll take just two more questions.
So Operator if you’d please put those through.
Hey good morning.
So first you’ve talked a lot about the peaker asset sales.
Just kind of curious – any outlook in terms of getting that done and the follow-up there?  The Grand Towers unit I imagine that one has got a better heat rate.
How much did it run in the quarter? Julian I don’t have any specific data on Grand Tower or the other couple of peakers to share with you.
We do expect the Grand Tower will be running more this year than it has in the past given the low power prices.
Overall on your other question really no update on the overall process.
Again the put option was put in place really as more of a—if an emergency situation need arose Genco could put those assets.
You know one of the things we pointed out on our year-end call was that Genco had money pool loans that were made to affiliates at year-end.
Those balances have actually grown a little bit here in the first quarter.
I think when you see their balance sheet I think they’ve got about $95 million loan to affiliates so really no immediate need for cash.
There is—you know the loans that have been made to affiliates so there’s really no process underway right now to sell those assets.
Great.
And just to make sure I heard you loud and clear here in terms of actually achieving that 0.38 standard under the new 2020 extension there really is nothing incrementally for you to do – it’s probably just running a little bit more of the call it running perhaps your scrubber just a little bit harder or something like that.
Is it something akin to that? Julian that’s right.
We have the ability given the controls we’ve put in place to meet that more stringent standard and with no additional cost.
So we again believe that’s something that as you say if we push the scrubber equipment that we’ve got in place we’ll be able to achieve that.
All right great.
Thanks for being explicit there.
Hey guys.
Thanks for the call.
A couple of my big questions were answered with respect to where you were getting the cash on the put and the intercompany loan; but can you talk about how you guys are thinking about—I think in your K you indicated that you may trip to your covenant.
Should we just assume that bank line you can’t access that going forward?  And just to clarify you indicated if you were to comply with the Illinois rule here that you probably wouldn’t see much of an incremental increase in the operating costs if you got the variance? Right.
So that is what I just said – is that we wouldn’t expect to see incremental operating costs as a result of the variance being granted.
And I think your other question was—I’m sorry could you repeat the other question? Well you guys indicated in your K that you may sort of trip an interest covenant test.
Can you talk about how you’re thinking about that and how you may try to deal with that or if you think you can deal with it at all? Yeah yeah.
I’m sorry – I was focused on the second question and had forgotten the first.
But yeah when you end up seeing our disclosures for the first quarter they’ll mirror those from year-end that essentially based on the covenant that borrowings at Genco we forecast to be restricted by the end of the first quarter of next year.
So there won’t be any change in the disclosures in the Q relative to the K which is why we put the put option in place.
We wanted to make sure there was clarity in terms of if Genco needed access to cash access to liquidity how would it arrange that because as you say looking ahead one might assume really no borrowing access under the revolver based on that disclosure that we’ve made.
Okay thanks.
Okay this is Doug Fischer.
I want to thank everybody for participating in today’s call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for one year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or to Matt Thayer.
Media should call Brian Bretsch.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren Corporation and have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer you may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I am Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Marty Lyons our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at Ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced during this call.
To access this presentation please look in the investor section of our website under webcasts and presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statement.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factor sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of second quarter 2012 earnings and 2012 guidance followed by a discussion of recent regulatory and business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of second quarter 2012 financial results and regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Here’s Tom who will start on page three of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I’m pleased to report that today we released second quarter 2012 core earnings of $.73 per share compared to $.59 per share of core earnings in the second quarter of 2011.
This improvement reflected increased earnings from our regulated utility operations partially offset by decreased earnings from our merchant generation operations.
Key drivers of the higher regulated utility earnings were a favorable federal energy regulatory commission order related to a disputed Ameren Missouri power purchase agreement that expired in 2009 the absence in 2012 of a 2011 Ameren Missouri charge to earnings related to the fuel adjustment clause and 2011 Missouri electric and 2012 Illinois gas rate adjustments.
Other factors having a favorable effect on second quarter 2012 regulated utility earnings compared to second quarter 2011 regulated utility earnings included reduced storm-related costs and increased electric sales to native load customers resulting from warmer temperatures.
Merchant generation earnings were negatively impacted by lower prices for electricity.
Marty will provide more details on our second quarter earnings in a few minutes.
Turning to page four based on second quarter results today we are raising our 2012 core earnings guidance range to $2.25 to $2.55 per share from a prior range of $2.20 to $2.50 per share.
Our core earnings guidance range for our merchant generation business segment remains $.05 to $.15 per share.
The favorable earnings impact of warmer-than-normal second quarter temperatures and the previously mentioned FERC order on the disputed power purchase agreement have led us to raise core guidance for our regulated utility businesses by $.05 per share at both the low and high ends of the range to a new range of $2.20 to $2.40 per share.
This guidance assumes normal temperatures for the second half of the year and so far third quarter temperatures have been much warmer than normal and I am very pleased to note that during the current extended period of very warm weather which began with record temperatures in May our utility systems have performed well demonstrating the value of the significant reliability investments we have made in recent years.
Extreme weather puts strains not only on our system but also on our customers we serve and our employees.
We continue to provide a range of assistance to help low-income customers cope with the impacts of warm weather.
These include promoting and contributing to programs that assist low-income customers with their bills and annual donations of residential air conditioning units to local charities for distribution.
I also want to commend our employees especially our generating center substation mechanics and line workers for their dedication and focus on safety.
They work hard in the heat so that our customers can stay cool.
Moving to page five we have significant electric rate cases pending in both Missouri and Illinois with decisions from utility regulators in these states expected later this year.
While Marty will update you on other details of these proceedings I want to touch on some policy issues.
We continue to believe that modern constructive regulatory frameworks which provide timely cash flows and a reasonable opportunity to earn fair return on investments are clearly in the best long-term interest of our customers and the states in which we operate.
These frameworks support our ability to attract capital on terms which facilitate the timely investment needed to modernize our regulated utilities companies’ aging infrastructure and meet customers’ expectations for safe reliable and clean energy.
Constructive regulatory framework and the investment they facilitate also help create good-paying jobs.
In our pending electric rate case in Missouri we are seeking recovery of costs and investments we have already made to serve customers.
Further we are seeking to enhance the existing regulatory framework in the state.
As a result we have made several new proposals in this case.
First we are requesting approval of a storm cost-tracking mechanism that will provide the opportunity to recover costs to restore service after major storms in a manner that is fair to both our customers and our investors.
Second we are requesting approval of a new plant in service accounting proposal.
This proposal is designed to reduce the impact of regulatory lag on earnings and future cash flows related to assets placed in service between rate cases.
In a related regulatory matter early this year Ameren Missouri filed the request with the Missouri Public Service Commission for approval of new and expanded energy efficiency programs for the three-year period beginning in January 2013.
This was the utility’s first request under the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act or MEEIA.
Last month all of the parties to the energy efficiency proceeding filed a stipulation in agreement with the Missouri Public Service Commission resolving all related issues and yesterday the PSC unanimously approved this agreement.
This agreement aligns the utility’s financial incentives with those of customers consistent with the MEEIA legislation that provides timely recovery of the expected costs of the energy efficiency programs we will implement beginning in January of 2013 and the revenue requirement for these program costs will be included in our pending electric rate case with true-ups to actual costs in future rate cases.
And also for the first time we will receive timely recovery through rates that is designed to offset revenue losses of fixed costs occurring as a result of implementing our energy efficiency programs.
Further the calculation for such recovery will be based on predetermined values for specific energy efficiency actions rather than difficult and often contentious after-the-fact measurement.
Here also the associated revenue requirement will be included in the pending rate case with true-ups in future rate cases.
Finally the energy efficiency agreement will provide an opportunity for us to earn a performance incentive to reflect the rate base growth foregone as a result of our energy efficiency programs.
Any earned performance incentive will be calculated and collected after 2015 with any earnings benefit expected to be recognized in 2016.
Moving now to Illinois constructive formula ratemaking is in place for our state-regulated electric delivery service and as Marty will discuss our initial and first annual uptake formula rate cases are pending before the ICC.
Given the constructive formula ratemaking framework we are moving forward with plans to invest meaningful incremental capital in this business.
Over the next 10 years our Illinois electric delivery business is required to invest $625 million over and above levels we have been spending in recent years and create 450 jobs during the peak program year.
The improved infrastructure resulting from these investments will enhance reliability and provide customers with the energy usage options made possible by smart meters.
Turning now to page six I would like to update you on progress on growing our investments in FERC-regulated transmission projects at the Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission companies.
Such projects benefit from constructive FERC formula ratemaking.
Ameren Illinois is moving forward with its plans to invest approximately $900 million across some 300 projects over the five years ending in 2016 which are focused on reliability and local load growth needs.
As shown in the pie chart three-quarters of the planned $900 million investment is in projects that do not require regulatory approval because they are improving or rebuilding existing lines.
The remaining investments which are for five Greenfield projects do require regulatory approval and as noted on the slide two of these projects have already been granted such certificates.
On page seven we provide an update on Ameren Transmission Company our ATX projects.
ATX is moving forward with its plans to invest approximately $750 million in Greenfield regional projects within Illinois and Missouri over the five years ending in 2016.
The bulk of ATX’s investment over this period will be in the $800 million+ Illinois Rivers project a MISO-approved regional multi-value project to build a transmission line across the state of Illinois.
We are currently holding public meetings on route design for this project.
Later this year we plan to file for a certificate of public convenience and necessity and an ICC decision will be issued by July of 2013.
Once we receive the certificate we will begin to acquire right of way.
Preliminary construction may start as early as 2013 with a full range of construction activities in 2014.
Meanwhile we recently filed with the FERC requesting the same constructive rate treatment that we’ve already received for the Illinois Rivers Project for ATX’s two other MISO-approved regional multi-value projects.
Turning now to page eight I would like to comment on our merchant generation business.
We continue to act to adjust this business to weak power prices and an uncertain timeline for their recovery.
As we discussed in our first quarter call our merchant generation business filed a request for a variance within the Illinois Multi-Pollutant Standard or MPS with the Illinois Pollution Control Board in May.
In our petition we outlined our need for additional time to comply with SO<sub>2</sub> emission levels currently set to become effective January 1<sup>st</sup> 2015.
In exchange for delaying compliance with these levels through 2020 we have proposed a compliance plan that restricts our SO<sub>2 </sub>emissions through 2014 to levels lower than those required by the existing MPS thereby offsetting the environmental impact of granting the variance relief.
Further our variance compliance plan will also comply with federal emission rules that are currently stayed but are under review by the federal courts.
There has been significant public interest in our variance request with various citizens’ groups and the Illinois Attorney General’s office opposing and labor and local community interests supporting the variance request.
Only the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and our merchant business are parties to proceedings.
The Illinois EPA has filed a neutral recommendation but has noted that our compliance plan results in a net environmental benefit.
If we are not granted the variance or power prices do not materially increase there is a significant risk that we’ll have to mothball two of our three unscrubbed merchant generation coal-fired energy centers beginning in 2015.
The Pollution Control Board held a hearing on our variance request just yesterday and must decide the matter by September 20<sup>th</sup> of this year.
I want to conclude my prepared remarks by noting that the focus of our dedicated employees on maintaining solid operating performance and improving customer service our active management of our merchant generation business and our disciplined cost management and capital allocation all reinforce my optimism as to the future prospects of Ameren.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to page nine in the presentation.
Today we reported second quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of $.87 per share compared to second quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $.57 per share.
Excluding certain items in each year Ameren recorded second quarter 2012 core earnings of $.73 per share compared to second quarter 2011 core earnings of $.59 per share.
Our second quarter 2012 core earnings excluded two items that are included in GAAP earnings.
The largest of these non-core items was the increase in income tax benefit as a result of the first quarter 2012 non-cash asset impairment charge at our merchant generation business and the GAAP requirement to recognize quarterly income tax expense using the annual estimated effective income tax rate.
This item increased net income by $.18 per share in the second quarter of 2012 partially reversing the $.36 per share first quarter 2012 charge.
We expect the remaining $.18 per share of this year-to-date expense to be fully reversed by the end of the year.
The second non-core item is a $.04 per share loss from the net effect of unrealized mark-to-market activity.
On page 10 we highlight key factors that drove the $.14 per share improvement in second quarter 2012 core earnings compared to second quarter 2011 core earnings.
These key factors included electric and gas rate adjustments net of certain related expenses which increased earnings by $.09 per share.
Electric rates changed in Missouri in late July of last year and gas delivery rates changed in Illinois in January of this year.
A second factor favorably impacting the comparison was the previously discussed favorable FERC order regarding a disputed power purchase agreement.
This added $.07 per share to second quarter 2012 earnings.
The earnings comparison also benefited from the absence of the previously discussed second quarter 2011 FAC-related charge of $.05 per share.
In addition lower storm-related costs benefited second quarter 2012 earnings by $.04 per share.
You’ll recall that we experienced severe storms in the second quarter of last year resulting in high storm restoration expenses.
Further warmer-than-normal temperatures boosted earnings by an estimated $.03 per share compared to the second quarter of 2011 a period that was also warmer than normal.
We estimate that the warm second quarter 2012 temperatures increased earnings by $.07 per share compared to normal offsetting a significant part of the estimated $.10 per share negative impact compared to normal experienced in the first quarter of this year due to mild winter temperatures.
Second quarter 2012 cooling degree days were 30% greater than normal and 15% greater than those experienced in the second quarter of 2011.
Reflecting this second quarter 2012 KWh sales of electricity to weather-sensitive residential and commercial utility customers rose 2% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impacts of weather we estimate the second quarter and first half 2012 KWh sales for residential and commercial customers were flat with those of the second quarter and first half of 2011.
A decline in margins at the merchant generation business reduced earnings by $.10 per share primarily a result of lower power prices.
Turning now to page 11.
We have raised our 2012 cash flow projection.
We now expect 2012 negative free cash flow of approximately $190 million an improvement of 40 million from our prior projection.
The improved cash flow outlook reflects higher expected cash flows from operations as a result of the previously-discussed favorable FERC order and our increased earnings expectations.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our projected cash flows from operating activities and subtracting from it expected capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and net advances for construction.
While we anticipate that free cash flow will be negative for Ameren as a whole we expect our merchant generation business will cover its own cash needs.
Moving to page 12 of our presentation I would like to update you on selected recent regulatory developments impacting our various business segments.
Beginning with Ameren Missouri as I mentioned earlier the FERC has issued a favorable order in a longstanding case involving the disputed power purchase agreement that expired in 2009.
The FERC’s May 2012 order confirmed its 2010 ruling that Entergy Arkansas should not have included additional charges to Ameren Missouri under the power purchase agreement and required Entergy to refund the improper charges with interest.
Ameren Missouri received cash reimbursement from Entergy in June.
The portion of the reimbursement related to power purchased before implementation of the Missouri Fuel Adjustment clause in February of 2009 an amount that was never included in customers’ rates was reflected in second quarter 2012 earnings.
Meanwhile Entergy has appealed the FERC order in the U.S.
Court of Appeals.
In a second recent regulatory development involving our Missouri Utility the state circuit court has reversed the Missouri Public Service Commission’s 2011 order requiring that $18 million related to sales ending in September of 2009 under certain wholesale contracts be flowed to customers through the FAC.
As a result of that 2011 PSC order we took a charge to earnings in the second quarter of 2011 and have completed flowing these funds to customers through the FAC.
In response to the favorable circuit court ruling the PSC recently appealed the matter to the Missouri Court of Appeals and a decision is not expected until 2013.
As a result we have not reversed the charge we took in 2011.
The PSC has reviewed the final $26 million relating to these same wholesale contracts for the period ending in May 2011 and is expected to issue a decision later this year as to whether this additional amount should be flowed to customers through the FAC.
A negative PSC decision on this matter would result in a charge to earnings.
At the top of page 13 we list a recent positive development impacting our Ameren Illinois electric delivery business.
Last month the ICC decided to consider Ameren Illinois’ modified Smart Grid Advanced Metering Infrastructure or AMI deployment plan.
Installing Smart Grid equipment and advanced two-way electric meters is critical to meeting the infrastructure enhancements required under the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act that authorized formula rates and such expenditures comprise about half of the increase in capital spending required by the act.
In March 2012 Ameren Illinois submitted its original Smart Grid Advanced Metering Infrastructure deployment plan to the ICC and the ICC subsequently denied that plan in May of 2012.
The ICC ruled that Ameren Illinois’ original plan did not provide enough support to prove that it was cost-beneficial for electric customers.
Ameren Illinois asked for a  rehearing and filed the modified deployment plan designed to address the ICC’s concerns about cost justification.
Our rehearing filling demonstrated a positive net present value for a plan which provides for the installation of advanced electric meters for 62% of electric customers within 10 years.
The ICC is scheduled to rule on our modified plan in November of 2012 and we are optimistic about a positive outcome.
Assuming ICC approval we would begin our construction of infrastructure in the third quarter of 2013 with the first meters to be installed in the second quarter of 2014.
And finally I would like to update you on a recent FERC regulatory development.
In June the FERC issued an order in the electric capacity construct filing of the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator or MISO.
The FERC approved MISO’s request to change the capacity construct to an annual from a monthly capacity construct beginning with the 2013-2014 planning year.
We are disappointed with the FERC’s order and continue to maintain that a multi-year or forward capacity construct is necessary to provide the transparent price signals needed to ensure electric reliability over the long term.
However in an encouraging aspect of the order the FERC directed staff to solicit comments in a separate proceeding on the issue of capacity portability between MISO and PJM.
This includes an examination of administrative rules that may act as barriers to capacity transfers across the MISO-PJM scene and potential solutions.
We continue to support the removal of unnecessary barriers to capacity portability across the scene as a means of improving market efficiency.
Moving to page 14 I would like to update you on the first of our two pending Illinois electric delivery formula rate case.
While the outcome of the initial case filed in January of this year will establish the level of rates charged to customers from October through the end of this year it is important to emphasized that full-year 2012 electric delivery earnings will reflect a true-up for 2012 rate base actual cost of service and the formula-based return on equity as well as historical ICC ratemaking adjustments.
To assist you in thinking about the expected 2012 earnings power of our Illinois electric delivery business we have provided estimates of several of the key inputs into the rate formula.
Moving to a discussion of the pending initial formula rate case this filing as we updated it in July called for a $20 million annual rate decrease compared to current rates.
In July the ICC staff filed their most recent testimony in this case.
The ICC staff recommended that rates be decreased by 29 million annually more than the Ameren Illinois’ updated proposal.
The ICC staff’s recommended revenue requirement reflects $20 million of lower rate base with $14 million of this $20 million the result of downward rate base adjustments for estimated accumulated deferred income taxes.
We have listed several of the other staff-recommended adjustments to the revenue requirement on this page.
On page 15 we have summarized the positions of the other major interveners in this case.
The revenue requirement recommended by these parties range from $33 to 37 million lower than our updated request and many of their positions on the issues are similar to those of the staff.
We and the other parties to this case have different views on another issue related to the rate base and capitalization amounts to be used for both ratemaking and the eventual earnings true-up calculation.
We argue that the legislation specifies that rate base and capitalization for a given year should be based on year-end values.
The ICC staff and other interveners recommended that the ICC use average values for a given year.
In fact the ICC adopted average values in a recent Commonwealth Edison order.
However in late June the ICC voted unanimously to rehear certain parts of its May Commonwealth Edison order including the use of average as compared to year-end rate base and the method for calculating interest on the revenue requirement reconciliation.
In addition to these issues the Attorney General has recommended an additional $7 million revenue reduction by crediting Ameren Illinois’ electric delivery cost of service with the benefit of the full amount of electric late payment revenue including the over half related to power supply rather than just the portion related to delivery service.
Finally the Illinois Industrial Energy Consumers recommended limiting the common equity ratio of 50% rather than the higher amount in our filling.
We strongly believe that this proposed adjustment is unjustified.
The ICC administrative law judges are expected to issue their proposed order in this case in August with an ICC decision expected in late September and new rates to be effective in October 2012.
Turning now to page 16 in April Ameren Illinois made its first annual electric delivery formula rate update filling.
Again while the outcome of this update case will establish the level of rates charged to customers beginning in January 2013 full-year 2013 electric delivery earnings will reflect a true-up for 2013 rate base actual cost of service and formula return on equity as well as historical ICC ratemaking adjustment.
As updated in July this filing calls for an incremental $16 million annual rate decrease in addition to our updated request in the initial formula rate case that I just discussed.
The reduction in rates beyond those filed in the initial case primarily reflects lower rate base and return on equity.
The lower rate base in this filing compared to the amount we supported in the initial case primarily reflects the incorporation of 2011 accumulated deferred income taxes including bonus depreciation.
The ICC staff and other interveners have filed their initial recommendations in the update case.
Details of their positions are outlined at the bottom of page 16 and on page 17.
The advocated incremental rate decreases that range from $12 to 23 million more than our proposed $16 million rate reduction.
Their arguments were along the same lines they put forward in the initial formula rate case.
Further the ICC staff argued that the equity ratio should be limited to 51% which reduced the revenue requirement by 4 million.
In addition the Attorney General of the Citizens Utility Board argued that the revenue requirements should be reduced by 5 million and 3 million respectively to reflect the impact on deferred taxes of the 2011 change to the Illinois corporate income tax rate.
The ICC administrative law judges are expected to issue their proposed order in this case by early November with an ICC decision expected in December and new rates to be effective in January 2013.
Moving now to page 18 in an update on our pending Missouri electric rate case.
We have requested a $376 million increase with 273 million of this related to non-fuel costs.
In addition we are seeking approval of a new two-way storm cost tracking mechanism and a new plant-in-service accounting proposal as Tom has already discussed.
Finally the pending rate request includes the revenue requirement of Ameren Missouri’s new and expanded energy efficiency programs under the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act or MEEIA.
On page 19 we summarize the Missouri PSC staff’s recent recommendations in the pending electric rate case based on our calculation.
The staff recommended a $210 million increase which included $121 million for higher net base fuel costs.
The staff’s net base fuel costs were $18 million more than Ameren Missouri’s request reflecting updated costs since our initial filing in February.
The staff’s recommended a non-fuel revenue increase of 89 million which was $184 million less than our request.
The primary driver of this $184 million difference was the staff’s recommendation of a 9% return on equity versus our 10.75% request which accounted for $98 million.
On this page we list other key drivers of this difference such as the exclusion of property tax increases for 2012 over the actual amount paid in 2011 the staff’s recommendation that all of the Entergy purchase power refund be credited back to customers over three years the rejection of a weather normalization adjustment a lower rate base number primarily due to lower working capital and a recommendation that we not recover 2011 voluntary separation costs as well as a number of other adjustments.
Turning now to page 20 in other rate case issues the staff’s revenue recommendation incorporated $80 million related to the energy efficiency settlement that was ruled on by the MPSC yesterday.
Also the staff supported continuation of the pension/OPEB vegetation management and infrastructure inspection cost tracking mechanism.
However the staff called for changing the FAC sharing mechanism to an 85/15 split rather than the 95/5 split currently in effect.
This change in the sharing percentages is similar to what the staff has recommended in past rate cases.
Finally the staff recommended that the Missouri PSC reject our storm cost tracking mechanism and plant in-service accounting proposal.
On page 21 we outline the Missouri Industrial Energy Consumer group’s recommended reductions to our rate request.
As you can see their positions are similar to those of the Missouri PSC staff though they recommend adoption of a slightly higher return on equity than the staff at 9.3%.
Page 22 completes our discussion of the pending electric rate case in Missouri.
The Office of Public Counsel made several recommendations in the case and we note them on this page.
Missouri PSC is scheduled to hold a hearing in the case beginning in late September and continuing through mid-October with a decision expected in December 2012 and new rates to be effective in January 2013.
Moving now to page 23 here we provide an update on our 2012 through 2014 [inaudible] power sales and hedges for our merchant generation business.
Before we move to the updated hedge numbers at the top of the page we indicate that expected 2012 merchant generation is now expected to be approximately 26.5 million MWh as of mid-2012.
This is up approximately 1 million MWh from the estimate we shared with you on our May call and it reflects increased generation due to the warmer-than-normal summer weather driving higher spot power prices and increased utilization of gas-fired generation assets.
You will also note that for 2012 we have hedged an amount greater than our expected generation approximately 28 million MWh and this amount is hedged at an average price of $43 per MWh.
The approximately 1.5 million MWh of hedging in excess of expected generation we expect it to be settled on a profitable basis using purchase power or additional generation to the extent power prices improve.
Moving to 2013 we have now hedged approximately 22.5 million MWh at an average price of $37 per MWh.
Further for 2014 we have now hedged approximately 12.5 MWh at an average price of $38 per MWh.
Finally turning to page 24 here we update our merchant generation segment’s fuel and related transportation hedges.
For 2012 we have hedged approximately 25 million MWh at $24 per MWh unchanged from what we communicated to you on the May call.
For 2013 we have now hedged approximately 22 million MWh at about $23.50 per MWh approximately $1 per MWh less than the number we provided in May.
For 2014 we have now hedged approximately 14 million MWh at about $23.50 per MWh also approximately $1 per MWh less than the number we shared with you in May.
This completes our prepared remarks.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is from the line of Steven Berg – Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Good Morning.
Just wanted to touch on the FERC quarter regarding the distributed power purchase agreement.
Are there any ongoing impacts to earnings that we should be thinking about or this more of a onetime item for this quarter?  Yes Steven no there aren’t any ongoing impacts associated with that.
You know the $0.07 gain we had is their reversal of some negative impacts that we had in prior years as a result of the (inaudible) charges.
Those negative impacts had been included in quarter earnings in the past which is why we reflected this gain in quarter earnings.
That said we now have a fuel adjustment clause in place in Missouri and there’re not ongoing impacts from this settlement.
Understood.
And then switching gears to MISO capacity.
What are the next steps that we should be thinking about or further steps to come post the third quarter? I think the thing we’re really focused on is this capacity portability issue.
And I think the next steps are for you know in accordance with the FERC ruling for MISO and PJM double discussion about some of the barriers to portability as well as other issues that they have.
And then we and other parties will be filing comments with FERC regarding the portability issues.
So those are the ongoing things to watch for.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Patterson – Glenrock Associates.
Please state your question.
Good Morning how are you?  Good thank you how are you? All right.
The Illinois pollution deferral you know regulatory deferral that you’re asking for in terms of implementation how should we think about the impact of that on your plans where they stand now I guess due to this issue.
There was a press report I think yesterday that there was a potential plant closures et cetera if this wasn’t deferred and I wanted to get some census to where things stand? Sure Paul.
I think what you’d be seeing in the press reports would be consistent with things we’ve talked about on our past couple of calls.
Obviously earlier this year as a result of the drop in power prices amongst other things we decelerated construction of the (Newton Scrubber) Project.
We talked about the fact that you know one of the obstacles we had was the Illinois Multi Pollutant Standard and the racket down in terms of So2 emissions.
I understand I don’t mean to make you go over that I apologies.
What I was trying to figure out was if you were to get this would this make things – I mean in other words we should be under - the guidance in your forecast and everything are under the expectation that we don’t have a change is that correct?  And if I guess you did get the change how might that change things?  Do you follow what I’m saying?  Am I understanding it correctly? I guess so but you know there’s not I’d say an immediate near term impact.
As we look out you know we’re concerned about that ratchet down out in 2015.
And to the extent that release isn’t granted by the pollution control board you know and the Newton Scrubber is not reaccelerated then we do face the prospect of plant closures as discussed in our prepared remarks.
So you know this is really an impact when we look out to that 2015 timeframe.
And then with respect to guidance I gather if I understand this correctly it’s because of the FERC order and because of normal weather in the second quarter that you guys are raising the guidance? Is that correct? Yes those were some of the things that we had.
You may recall Paul that after the first quarter we actually lowered our guidance from our regulated entities by about $0.05 on either end of the range and that’s because in the first quarter we had about $0.10 of negative impact from weather and so we lowered the guidance $0.05.
We’ve seen an improvement in the weather situation we’re still down year-to-date by about $0.03 on a net basis versus normal.
But we did see some positive impact in the second quarter from weather.
And we also had the as you noted the positive FERC ruling.
Those things allowed us to move the guidance back up $0.05 to where we started the year for the regulated entities.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Julian Dumoulin – Smith – UBS.
Please state your question.
Hi Good Morning.
Good Morning Julian.
First on the treasuries and the Illinois (formulate grates).
I noticed that you mentioned 3% here.
Is that still using the blue chip average?  And then secondly did that have sort of market-to-market impact in the second quarter and what was that?  I apologize if I missed that in your prepared remarks.
That’s fine.
Julian the 3% it reflect the actual experience in terms of (inaudible) for the first half of the year as well as you know blue chip forecasting as of July.
So it’s really the average for the year which is what’s included in the ROE.
So that 3% is what’s baked into the guidance.
In terms of a way to think about that about every 10 basis points or so is about a half cent per share.
So about a 30 basis point move is probably a penny and a half to two cents when you’re thinking about the impact of something like that overall.
I wouldn’t say there was a mark-to market the regulatory asset that we recorded at the end of the first quarter was unchanged at the end of the second quarter as it related to that business.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of John Hansen -  Prestigious Advisors.
Please state your question.
Morning.
Good Morning.
My questions have been answered.
Thank you very much.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Lapides – Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys congrats on a good quarter good first half of the year.
On Illinois Marty just want to make sure I followed the rate base level declined from 2012 in your filing the 2013 little bit over right around $100 to $120 somewhat million dollars.
Can you just walk us through the (Pumaton Takes) meaning net capital additions minus normal course depreciation and then minus bonus depreciation just so we can kind of think through the give and take and then think about how this impacts post 2013?  Yes I don’t – Michael I don’t have a full reconciliation to walk you through maybe something you can follow up with Doug after the call.
But you highlighted one of the drivers for that decrease.
The biggest is really that bonus depreciation which has been included.
And of course that’s been reflected in the guidance.
I think what you’ve seen in some of these cases that we have pending is folks arguing that the accumulated depreciation should be included in the rate base.
And certainly for this year in terms of the way we’ve been broadcasting out earnings and forecasting our rate base we’ve included the deferred tax update from bonus depreciation in there so that’s the big driver.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Andy Bishop – Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Good Morning.
Actually I have a clarification question on the FAC ordered.
If I understand correctly you took $18 million charge in 2011 no charge (inaudible) and then you reversed the charge in 2013 paying (inaudible)? Is that correct? That could be and I don’t want to speculate on the outcome in ’13 but yes we took a charge last year of about $0.05 as noted on the call there’s still about $25 or $26 million pending before the Reserved Public Service Commission that we expect them to rule on later this year.
And then we’ll  see how these court appeals play out.
Obviously we took a charge because of the – last year because of the commissions decision and of course we flowed those monies back through the FAC.
If at some point that commission decision is reversed one way or another and ultimately we’re able to collect those monies at that point it would become a gain.
Thanks so much.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin Fallon – SIR Capital.
Please state your question.
Good Morning.
A question for you within your 2012 earnings guidance of $225 to $255 what is the amount of parent company drag when you’re not allocating non-recourse debt interest expense related to that?  You know I don’t know what the parent company drag is.
Typically what we’ve done with our debt for the most part is allocated those costs out.
So you know the parent company debt that exist you know the $425 million of debt you know for the most part those interest charges actually get allocated out to the merchant segment and (inaudible) supporting that merchant segment.
So while the $425 is an obligation of Ameren Corporation the debt is being seen as supporting capital expenditures made at the merchant segment over time.
Primarily I shouldn’t say primarily really a AERG which is a non-registrant so we allocate those interests costs out to that segment.
But there’s a much larger component of non-recourse that you also book within the Merchant Generation section that would go away if you walked away from those businesses.
I’m just trying to understand if you separated from the Merchant Generation Businesses one of the ongoing expense that you would have at the holding company level to offset against the regulated utilities?  In terms of the debt there’s $825 million dollars or so of debt at Ameren Energy Generating that is non-recourse debt.
That interest expense is allocated to Ameren energy Generating and AER and then there’s the other $425 up at Ameren Corp.
and again that’s an Ameren Corp.
obligation and the interest expense is allocated down to that segment Ameren Energy Resources.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Paz with Bank of America please state your question.
Good morning.
Good morning David.
I was just wondering following the agreement on MEEIA what are the prospects of settlement in your ending Missouri rate case?  Yes David I think I will maybe Warner Bax to take that one.
David how are you doing?   Good morning how are you doing?  I’m terrific thanks.
With regards to the settlement – I mean as you know we’ve in the last several rate cases we have not really come together in a comprehensive basis to settle the entire rate case and that’s due to several reasons – largely due to the fact that we have several parts of those cases and certainly several issues to resolve.
But historically we have been able to take several issues and resolve those in a partial settlement and then take ultimately fewer issues to the commission.
Having said all of those things certainly if the prospects or settlements are always there so that the discussions be fruitful and if they are fruitful we would be happy to engage in those discussions there if you can find something that makes sense.
So I can’t predict the outcome but certainly if the opportunity is right if it make sense for us then we will move forward with that.
Great and just one question regarding your merger statement what price level Marty are you looking for that you would need to avoid mob falling the two of the three un-scrubbed core plant?  You know David there’s not I would say a specific price level of the words that I point to that you know would cause us to avoid them – and I think what you’re really asking is there a certain price level in which the you know Newton Scrubber would be you know we accelerated and you know consistent and then what we said on prior calls you know I think that we – you know we’ve estimated that if we reaccelerated that we would probably need something like 20 or 24 months of construction time to have that scrubber in service.
So we continue to have some time to watch how things develop but it’s not just power prices – certainly watch power prices – I think of power I guess you could say I think of energy and I think of capacity because we are watching energy prices capacity prices development in terms of you know federal and environmental regulations in the likes of – you know there will be host of factors but I can’t point to a specific price that would be toward the threshold.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to follow up so I understood the guidance.
It look like there’s about seven cents of extra weather in the second quarter and seven cents associated with the – seven cents of the weather and seven tenths of [inaudible] fourteen then and you mentioned on how you readjusted your number previously.
Is there anything that we should be thinking about that would lower the number so that we only have the five cents increasing guidance or is there something – or are you guys just being conservative?  So yes you are right and the numbers that you gave out are right the Q2 weather versus normal was about a plus seven cents and then the FERC agreement was another you know seven cents but you are absolutely right.
I think in terms of again why five cents I think that again we are still bond weather wise because we had about a ten cent drag in the first quarter.
We only reduce the regulated guidance by about five cents – you know we picked up seven cents of that yes in the second quarter but we are still down net three cents a-year-to-date due to weather.
If that’s on a prior call we – we’ve had about three basis point drop in the ROEs in Illinois which again as I said earlier there’s probably a penny-and-a-half to what two cents of earnings and then I think one other thing Paul that we mentioned on the call is that you know we strip out weather – you know we’re seeing pretty flat low growth in terms of residential commercial year-to-date.
We did at the beginning of the year and frankly continue to expect as we look to the second half of the year to see to see some growth in those categories year-to-date we haven’t seen any.
Now weather normalization is obviously say not an exact science with that pretty good extremes in both in  terms of the winter months and the spring summer months year-to-date and so sometimes those can cause variations but we are seeing things pretty flat year-to-date.
So those are some of the factors – the other thing that I would say though Paul what we mentioned is that you know the July weather has been extremely warm and continues to be extremely warm even this week and none of the impacts of that favorable weather in July have been reflected in the guidance that we have provided.
That’s great just one other – that leads me to my second question which is are you guys having any new peaks?  Have you found any change in peak demand?  You mentioned the [inaudible] kind of flattish and I think that is – well a lot of people’s actually are even down where they are normalized.
But just in terms of – you had measly hot weather I think in the mid-west at least it looked like it was for me [inaudible] – what do you guys think of in terms of peak demand?  Yes you know I should have brought some exact datas but I don’t.
I can tell you that while we have you know – you know had some very strong demands I think we’re still down for some of the peaks that we saw a couple of years ago but I won’t – and maybe then I will ask somebody else to do it to comment on that quickly.
This is Maurine Barkoski.
Transmission system basis we did set a new all-time peak on July the 25<sup>th</sup> of a – I forget the exact number but I think it was 18 588 megawatts and based on the two individual companies Ameren Illinois did set a new all-time peak on that same day Ameren Missouri has not yet exceeded it’s all-time peak which was in 2007.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ryan Tabio of Futcher and Company please proceed with your question.
Good morning  Good morning.
First question is with regards to your – the request of environmental variance in Illinois.
With the sharing that had taken place yesterday can you – what’s the next step here?  Is there another hearing date or is the next thing we will hear is the ruling coming out of court?  Yes no there – you know there won’t be another hearing set and we basically will expect to see a decision by the pollution control board deadline September the 20<sup>th</sup>.
Have they given you any – or have you gotten any guidance or input on what their major focus is?  You’ve mentioned all the major parties and their different views but have they given you any idea what they are focused on in terms of making their decision?  No the – you know yesterday I think the public hearing was well attended all five of the members of the pollution control board were in attendance.
I think they were – they were very attentive and I think they heard you know from folks that spoke I would say on behalf of our competition you know folks that are located in our service territories that you know would – that spoke of the potential economic and personal impact of the variance and of course there were a citizen’s group there who spoke in opposition.
So you know what they – with the police and the control board there to do again is to balance both environmental concerns with economic concerns and you know they heard testimonies on both sides.
You know ultimately really the only parties to this to proceeding are ourselves and the IEPA that noted on our call the IEPA has taken a neutral stance on this and sees our petition as being environmentally beneficial and that is our view as well and so we look to pollution control board again to balance the you know the economics with the environmental mandate.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow up from Julian Dumoulin-Smith of UBS please state your question.
Hi just a few follow ups on the [inaudible] side of the equation.
First as you just eluded to for the net positive benefits – I know it’s IEPA here but kind of just wanted to get a sense of how is it actually a net positive is it just because you’re accelerating some of the reductions from 2015 forward and that sort of off net would have happened in the back half of the [inaudible] – [inaudible] what you think about it?  Yes that is a good way of think about it Julian.
All right and then secondly on capacity affordability what could this eventually mean just trying to think about an ideal scenario is this all of your capacity partial – you know is this just about getting some transfer right that is recognized – there are a number of different iterations that could be coming out of this but I just wanted to get your state.
I think that is probably true there probably are a number of different iterations that could come out of it but certainly I think that to the extent that you know we have capacity and we’ve got you know there’s available transmission to get you know out of MISO and into PJM – you know we think we should be able to sell that capacity into PJM whether that’s the percentage of our fleet ultimately it would be available to do that – you know I don’t know off hand.
I think it could be a number of as you said a number of outcomes there.
Operator this Doug Fischer we have time for one more question.
That question is coming from the line of Michael Lapides of Goldman Sachs please proceed with your question.
Hey Marty an easy one here can you just walk us through in the first half of 2012 what are items that are still included in ongoing [inaudible] but may not actually happen until next year meaning kind of like the FERC item the seven cent benefit from the FERC item that is ongoing EPS?  I’m just trying to think about whether it’s storm related or anything else that is left for accounting lease and ongoing EPS but may not actually be reoccurring 12 months from now.
Yes sure Michael.
I think that we tried to list the major ones on you know slide three and I guess those are mostly related to Q2 and maybe I should focus you back on our Q1 slide as well – we had a similar slide for Q1 but you do see you know the third quarter there we had the absence of the fact charge from last year and the storm costs from last year.
As I recall from the first quarter too though we picked up a couple of cents of impact in Ameren Illinois because of contributions that we made at the start of the Illinois rate file.
So again I just want to point you back to those first quarter slides I think we have negative in the first quarter that would not be repeating again next year.
And then I think as you as you look to next year you know I think some of the things to think about as just the – you’ll have the resolution in the Missouri rate case later this year next year we will have a calloway outage where there was not calloway outage this year.
Those will be some of the drivers as well as what happens with 30 year treasuries and it affects Illinois and in our continuing to deploy capitals that we’ve laid out.
So those are some of the impacts to be thinking about.
Got it okay.
Thank you Marty thank you much appreciate it.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you this is Doug Fischer – thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for one year on our website.
Greetings.
And welcome to the Ameren Corporation’s Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this is conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I’m Doug Fischer Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Marty Lyons our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and described in the forward-looking statements.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statement section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factor sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of third quarter 2012 earnings and 2012 guidance followed by a discussion of recent regulatory and business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of third quarter 2012 financial results and regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for your questions.
Here is Tom who will start on page three of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Before I discuss our earnings I would like to acknowledge that terrible impact Hurricane Sandy has had on our fellow citizens in the Northeast.
The storm has reminded us again how the forces of Mother Nature can change lives.
Sandy will no doubt go down as one of the worst storms ever to hit our country.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those who have lost love ones from this devastating storm and also to those effected in so many other ways by the storm including those whose homes and businesses has suffered severe damage and loss power.
At the request of Public Service Electric and Gas of New Jersey Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois dispatched crews to respond to the storm even before hit the region so that our teams would be in position to restore power as soon as possible.
Currently there are more than 650 Ameren electric and gas employees and Ameren contractors nearly 250 pieces of heavy equipment deployed in New Jersey.
I want to personally thank all of the Ameren personnel who are working long hours to restore power in the Northeast.
Now I would like to turn to a discussion of our earnings and update you on other important matters.
Today we announced third quarter 2012 core earnings of $1.33 per share compared to third quarter 2011 core earnings of $1.57 per share.
Third quarter was solid from an operations perspective with our system and people performing very well under extended severe weather conditions.
Overall earnings were in line with our expectations despite a challenging Illinois electric delivery rate order.
The decrease in third quarter 2012 core earnings compared to third quarter 2011 core earnings reflect a lower results from both our Regulated Utility and Merchant Generation businesses.
Ameren Illinois’ earnings were negatively impact by the Illinois Commerce Commission September 2012 rate order for electric delivery service and a change in the quarterly distribution of revenues and earnings resulting from formula ratemaking.
In addition Ameren Missouri’s core earnings declined due to lower electric sales and a higher effective income tax rate partially offset by the benefit of our 2011 electric rate adjustment.
Third quarter 2012 temperatures while warmer than normal or similar to those experience in the third quarter of 2011.
Core earnings from our Merchant Generation business also declined compared to third quarter of 2011 reflecting lower power prices and higher fuel costs.
Marty will provide more details on our earnings in a few minutes.
Turning to page four today we also affirmed that the $2.40 per share midpoint of our 2012 core earnings guidance and narrow the range to that guidance to $2.35 to $2.45 per share from prior range of $2.25 to $2.55 per share.
The midpoints of core earnings guidance for our Regulated Utilities and our Merchant Generation business remained $2.30 per share and $0.10 per share respectively.
I’m pleased to also report that in addition to our solid operating performance during this past summer’s extended heat wave two of our coal-fired Missouri Energy Centers recently earned positive national recognition.
The Labadie and Rush Island Energy Centers were honored as the best performers for 2011 by the Electric Utility Cost Group.
This honor demonstrates that our commitment to performance cost efficiency and reliability is benefiting our customers.
In addition our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center has been performing well running continuously since its fall 2011 refueling outage.
Moving from earnings results and recent operation success I would like to update you on regulatory matters at our utilities.
Turning to page five of our presentation in Illinois regulatory matters.
As I previously mentioned in September of this year we received a disappointing order from the ICC in response to our initial filing for formula electric delivery rates.
In response we asked the ICC to rehear certain key issues in the rate order because we believe they misapplied the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
Where the ICC denied our rehearing request last month and we have appeal the order to the States 4th District Appellate Court.
Unfortunately this disappointing ICC order jeopardizes Ameren Illinois ability to implement advanced metering and other infrastructure improvements and create jobs to the extent and on the timetable envision by the General Assembly.
Until the uncertainty surrounding how the Illinois law will ultimately being implemented is removed Ameren Illinois is reducing its capital spending with corresponding negative effects on the job creation that the legislative -- legislature sought to achieve with the law.
Specifically Ameren Illinois expects to reduce our deferral of total $30 million of previously planned 2013 electric distribution capital spending.
Besides appealing the recent rate order to the court Ameren Illinois is also reviewing potential legislative remedies to ensure that the goals of the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act are realized.
Turning now to page six in Missouri regulatory matters.
Our pending electric rate case is nearing a conclusion and our updated filings now support a $323 million annual increase.
In this proceeding we are seeking recovery of costs and investments that we have already made to serve customers.
Further we are asking the Missouri Public Service Commission to approve to enhancements to the existing regulatory framework in the state.
First we are requesting approval of storm cost tracking mechanism that will provide the opportunity to recover costs to restore service after major storms in a manner that is fair to both our customers and our investors.
Second we are requesting approval of a new plant in-service accounting proposal.
This proposal designed to reduce the impact of regulatory lag on earnings and future cash flows related to assets placed in service between rate cases.
Approval of this proposal would encourage prudent incremental discretionary investments in our energy infrastructure and help meet our customer’s number one priority reliability.
Of course these incremental investments would also help sustain and create new jobs.
The evidentiary hearings in front of the Missouri PSC were completed last month.
The PSC plans to issue an order in early to mid-December of this year with new rates expected to be effective in early January of next year.
As Marty will discuss in further detail the largest revenue related issue and dispute in this case the allowed rate of return on equity.
Moving to page seven I will conclude my prepared comments on our Regulated Utility businesses by updating you on a key driver of our expected future growth a single largest plan investment the Ameren Transmission Company Illinois River project.
This important MISO approved regional multi-value project involves construction of the new high-voltage transmission line across the State of Illinois.
We will enhance reliability and create new construction jobs in the state.
Like all our Illinois transmission projects both those at Ameren Illinois Company and Ameren Transmission Company the Illinois Rivers project will benefit from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commissions constructive rate making.
This rate making provide for annual formula based updating of rates and a competitive return on investment.
Further last year this project received FERC approval a constructive regulatory treatment such as the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base.
I’m pleased to report that just last month we completed 98 Stakeholder Public Meetings on the route design for this project.
And Wednesday of this week we filed with the ICC for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the approximately 400-mile transmission line route but the decision on this certificate reissued by July of next year.
Once receive the certificate from the ICC we will begin to acquire right of away for the transmission line.
Preliminary construction may start as early as next year with the full range of construction activities expected in 2014.
Turning to page eight in the discussion of our Merchant Generation business continue to act to adjust this business to weak power prices in an uncertain timeline for their recovery.
Earlier this year our Merchant Generation business filed the request for a variance in Illinois Multi-Pollutant Standards or MPS with the Illinois Pollution Control Board.
In our petition we outlined our need for additional time to comply with sulfur dioxide emissions standards which were to become effective June 1 2015.
In exchange for delaying compliance with these standards until 2020 we propose an alternate compliance plan that restricted our sulfur dioxide emissions through 2014 to levels lower than those required by the existing MPS thereby offsetting the environmental impact of granting the variance relief.
I’m pleased to report that in September of this year the Pollution Control Board unanimously approved our variance request subject to traditions that we have accepted.
As a result through 2019 we do not expect to have to de-rate or shutdowns any of our currently operating energy centers in order to comply with the state sulfur dioxide emission limits.
Further we have reduced our 2012 through 2016 Merchant Generation environmental capital spending plans by approximately $35 million compared to our prior plans with 20 million of the reduction occurring this year.
This reduction is primarily due to the vacated Cross-State Air Pollution Rule and the impacts of the MPS variance.
To be clear these spending plans are sufficient to meet the milestone conditions through 2016 that were included in the variance.
That being said we recognized that even with the relief granted by the Illinois Pollution Control Board low power and capacity prices are impacting Ameren’s earnings outlook.
We continue to look for every opportunity to reduce operating costs and enhance margins.
With that I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to page 9 of the presentation today we reported third quarter 2012 GAAP earnings of $1.54 per share compared to third quarter 2011 GAAP earnings of $1.18 per share.
Excluding certain items in each year Ameren recorded third quarter 2012 core earnings of $1.33 per share compared with third quarter 2011 core earnings of $1.57 per share.
Core earnings for the third quarter of 2012 excluded two items that are included in GAAP earnings.
The largest of these non-core items was an increase in income tax benefit as a result of the first quarter 2012 non-cash asset impairment charge at our Merchant Generation business and the GAAP requirement to recognize quarterly income tax expense using the annual estimated effective income tax rate.
This item increased net income by $0.18 per share in the third quarter of 2012 entirely reversing the $0.18 per share decrease in income tax benefit recorded in the first half of 2012.
We expect this item to have no impact on full-year 2012 earnings.
The second non-core item is a $0.03 per share gain from the net effect of unrealized mark-to-market activity.
On page 10 we note key factors that drove the $0.24 per share decrease in third quarter 2012 core earnings compared to third quarter 2011 core earnings.
Looking first at results of our regulated utilities Ameren Illinois’ September 2012 electric delivery rate order and the change in the quarterly distribution of revenues and earnings under formula ratemaking reduced core earnings by $0.12 per share compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Moving to Ameren Missouri electric sales margin reduced earnings by $0.04 per share compared to the third quarter of 2011 reflecting lower electric sales attributable to energy efficiency measures and customer conservation efforts.
While we do estimate that warm third quarter 2012 temperatures benefited earnings by $0.10 per share as compared to normal temperatures these temperatures did not materially impact the earnings comparison to the third quarter of 2011 because third quarter 2011 was similarly warm.
Ameren Missouri earnings were also impacted by higher effective income tax rate which reduced earnings by $0.04 per share.
The July 2011 Missouri electric rate adjustment partially offset the electric sales and tax rate impacts benefitting earnings by $0.05 per share compared to the third quarter 2011.
Finally Merchant Generation Segment earnings were impacted by a $0.10 per share decline in margins compared to the third quarter of 2011 reflecting lower power prices and higher fuel costs.
This was partially offset by $0.05 per share of lower depreciation expense and $0.02 of lower plant operations and maintenance expense.
Turning now to page 11 we have updated our 2012 cash flow projection.
We now expect 2012 negative free cash flow of approximately $205 million.
The decrease in free cash flow of approximately $15 million compared to the projection we provided on our August call.
Our negative free cash flow projection includes $138 million of premiums for long-term debt repurchases for our regulated utilities Ameren Illinois and Ameren Missouri which were paid during the third quarter.
These premium payments were part of debt refinancing that reduced the weighted average interest rates on our utility debt and enhanced our debt maturity profile.
As a result we expect to recover these premiums over the life of the newly issued debt through the regulatory process.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our projected cash flows from operating activities and subtracting from it expected capital expenditures other cash flows for investing activities dividends and net advances for construction.
Adjusting for the premiums paid on long-term debt our adjusted free cash flow expectation is a negative approximately $67 million.
While we anticipate the 2012 free cash flow will be negative for Ameren as a whole we expect that our Merchant Generation business will cover its own 2012 cash needs.
Moving from a discussion of earnings and cash flow I would like to provide further details on the regulatory matters that Tom previously discussed.
Turning to page 12 of our presentation I will begin with the earnings impact of Illinois electric delivery formula ratemaking.
Under this ratemaking reported Illinois electric delivery earnings for a given year reflected throughout for that year’s rate base actual cost of service and formula-based return on equity as well as ICC ratemaking adjustment.
Also it is important to recognize that quarterly revenues and earnings are impacted by the timing and amount of operating costs.
As Tom previously mentioned the ICC issued its order in our initial electric delivery formula rate case this September and we’ve incorporated the impacts of that order into the 2012 core earnings guidance that Tom shared with you.
To assist you in thinking about 2012 Illinois electric delivery business earnings we’ve provided on this slide key inputs into the rate formula including impacts of the recent ICC order.
Despite our belief that the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act calls for the use of year-end rate base and year-end capital structure the ICC ordered the use of average rate base and the use of a hypothetical capital structure and we have reflected these ICC decisions in our guidance.
Also our guidance now incorporates an estimated average 2012 30-year treasury bonds yield of 2.9% down 10 basis points from the expectation we shared on our August call.
Further our guidance reflects the fact that several types of costs are not recoverable in rates these non-recoverable costs include approximately $9 million of ICC ratemaking adjustments.
In addition we expect to spend about $7.5 million this year on certain electric system rework that is non-recoverable in rates.
And finally approximately $9 million of the donations were required under the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
Of this total $7.5 million was a one-time 2012 only donation to the Illinois Science and Energy Innovation Trust.
Turning now to page 13 Ameren Illinois’ first annual update case for electric delivery formula rates is nearing a conclusion.
On Wednesday of this week the ICC administrative law judges hearing this case issued their proposed order.
While we are still reviewing the proposed order it appears to be in line with the order the ICC recently issued in the initial formula rate case.
The deadline for an ICC decision in the update case is December 16th with new rates scheduled to be effective in early January 2013.
Moving to page 6 the ICC is also currently reviewing Ameren Illinois’ modified smart grid advanced metering infrastructure or AMI deployment plan to determine if it is cost beneficial.
We believe our filing strongly supports the cost beneficial nature of our plan.
Installing smart grid equipment and advanced two-way electric meters is critical to meeting the infrastructure enhancements required under the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act that authorized formula rates.
And such expenditures are a significant portion of the increase in capital spending required by the act.
The ICC is scheduled to rule on our modified plan this month.
Assuming ICC approval we plan to begin construction of infrastructure in the third quarter of 2013 with the first meters to be installed in the second quarter of 2014.
Turning to page 15 in our pending Missouri electric rate case we have requested an updated $323 million annual rate increase down from original request of $376 million.
This changes the result of the normal rate case true-up process a reduction in our requested return on equity to 10.5% and the settlement of certain rate case issues.
Our updated request includes $73 million related to higher net fuel costs $80 million already approved by the Missouri PSC related to recovery of costs for enhanced energy efficiency programs that will begin in 2013 and $170 million for other non-fuel costs.
In addition we are seeking approval of a new storm cost tracking mechanism and a new plant in-service accounting proposal as Tom has already discussed.
The Missouri PSC staff updated filing in this case supports a $210 million increase.
The primary driver of the $113 million difference between Ameren Missouri’s position and that of the staff has allowed return on equity.
The staff’s 9% recommendation compared to our 10.5% request accounts for $88 million of the difference.
On this page we also list other key drivers of the difference between our requests and the staff’s positions.
Regarding other rate case issues the staff supported continuation of the Pension/OPEB vegetation management and infrastructure inspection cost tracking mechanism.
However the staff called for changing the FAC sharing mechanism to an 85-15 split from the current 95-5 split.
This proposed change in the sharing percentages is similar to what the staff has recommended in past rate cases.
Further the staff has recommended that transmission costs should no longer be recovered through the fuel adjustment clause but instead should be recovered in base rates.
We opposed this potential change as we believe it is appropriate to recover transmission costs through the FAC.
These costs can be volatile and are unavoidable and outside of management’s control.
Further recovery through the FAC better matches the cost to be a member of MISO with the benefit to customers received through off-system sales which are included in the FAC.
If the PSC decides to make such a change we believe a full cost tracking mechanism without any limiting conditions should be put in place to avoid regulatory lag resulting from under recovery of cost increases between rate cases.
Finally the staff has recommended that the Missouri PSC reject our storm cost tracking mechanism and plant in-service accounting proposal.
In addition to the staff other parties have filed testimony on several issues in the pending case.
For example Missouri industrial energy consumers and the Office of Public Counsel have recommended returns on equity of 9.3% and 8% respectively.
The Missouri PSC is expected to issue its order in early to mid-December of this year with new rates expected to be effective in early January 2013.
Shifting to our Merchant Generation business on page 16 we provide updates on our 2012 through 2014 four power sales and hedges.
As noted last quarter as a result of falling power prices which reduced economic generation levels in 2012 we hedged an amount greater than our ultimate expected generation.
This hedging in excess of generation has been or will be settled on a profitable basis by either using purchase power or existing generation to the extent that power prices improve.
For 2013 we have now hedged approximately 24 million megawatt hours at an ever price of $36 per megawatt hour.
Further for 2014 we have now hedged approximately 13 million megawatt hours at an average price of $38 per megawatt hour.
Finally turning to page 17 an update of our Merchant Generation Business fuel and related transportation hedges.
For 2013 we’ve hedged approximately 22 million megawatt hours at about 2 350 per megawatt hour unchanged from our August call.
And for 2014 our hedges now totaled approximately 13 million megawatt hours at about $24 per megawatt hour.
Our reduced coal hedged level in 2014 reflects a rebalancing of our mix of cool hedges to reflect desired cool quantities and an amount overall matching our four power hedge position.
This completes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Steven Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Steven.
I was just curious.
First on your outlook for power prices there’s sort of an ongoing debate about the impact of upcoming environmental regulations on the price of power and weather.
The four price of power is really fully accounting for all those environmental costs particularly post election the questions are coming up a lot? I was just curious as you think about the Midwest and the amount of potential economic retirements that we are seeing out there.
And as you look at the four power markets do you have any general comments on what you’re seeing out there? Yeah.
Steven I mean it’s a good question.
I think it’s always been.
This is Marty by the way.
It’s always difficult to speculate on what’s going to happen with forward power prices.
I mean our view I think along with others is that forward power prices today are obviously pretty low certainly reflecting the continued weak economy and the low gas prices.
We do expect that over time especially when you look out to the MATS rules that take effect out in 2015-2016 timeframe that you will see the need for folks to either make additional expenditures or for higher cost generation to shut down.
I think MISO has estimated as much as 12 000 megawatt hours of production across the MISO footprints.
So those types of things will certainly I think over time put pressure on capacity prices if not power prices.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And so related question just as you think about the merchant business you’ve laid out for 2012.
The business is able to fully fund itself.
It’s not cash-flow negative.
As you think about the outlook for that business from a strategic point of view is there a sense that through strategic activity cost cutting could be achieved greater scale could be achieved.
And is there a view that greater skill is needed in general in the merchant generation business or just -- if you won’t mind just giving an update on how you think about strategically your merchant business? Stephen I think a couple of things.
First of all you talked about the cash flows.
And I think as we said in the call certainly we’re expecting the business to cover its cash needs this year.
From time-to-time we get questions about Genco in particular.
They started the year out with about $82 million of cash and advances to the money pool as of September 30th.
They still had about $57 million of cash and advances to the money pool combined by $57 million.
And as you know have the ability to sell gas-fired assets or exercise put option to -- for liquidity purposes.
So those options are out there as well as they certainly expect going forward.
They have the benefit of certain net operating losses that they’ve got as well.
So there are some tools in the toolkit in terms of liquidity and cash flows in the short term.
Longer term strategically I think it’s something that we’ll continue to evaluate -- obviously I think the larger scale platforms that are out there.
There are certain synergies that you can have.
I think as we’ve managed this business over time we certainly gotten some synergies by the overall combination of the entities that we have.
But going forward it’s something that we will continue to consider the nature of our overall hybrid mix.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Just quickly on whether it sounds like there were $0.10 above normal for the quarter I believe.
Could you give us a sense as to what the weather-normalized growth is for the quarter and year-to-date in Illinois and Missouri.
And whether or not you’re seeing any decrease in weather-normalized sales particularly excuse me in Missouri and the potential for regulatory lag in that jurisdiction.
We heard something today that that might indicate that’s a potential with another company? Yeah.
I don’t know about the other company you’re referring to Paul but -- certainly this is Marty.
Again I can certainly comment overall.
We did estimate about $0.10 per share of positive impact from weather in the third quarter versus normal.
And we also mentioned in our prepared remarks that overall we thought Missouri electric sales negatively impacted earnings by about $0.04 versus last year.
And that’s the case with $0.10 versus normal positive weather impact in the quarter.
As we looked at the weather this year versus last year we thought the impact was about flattish or no impact.
You may recall that we had a warm summer last year.
It was kind of a persistent warm summer whereas this year we have some heat in June extreme heat in July and then it kind of dropped off to more normal conditions for the remainder.
What we saw this year is that as we have those extremes in heat and we quantified as I said the impact to be about $0.10 when we looked at the weather normalized sales they were actually down.
And so when you look at the statistics page we provided you’ll actually see that residential and commercial sales were down year-over-year.
And again remember that we believe that overall weather was about flat.
So those sales declines which you are seeing are sort of weather-normalized sales decline.
Now as we know weather normalization is somewhat art and somewhat science.
So that’s why we say in particular talking point of some of that reduction in overall weather-normalized loads maybe because of customer conservation efforts as they receive some of the higher bills from the June and July timeframe.
But getting back to your question I mean that’s in Missouri for the quarter was in Missouri residential sales on a weather normalized basis down between 1.5% to 2% same kind of pattern in the commercial sector.
In Illinois we saw a little bit greater decline in residential usage and the commercial was actually a slight positive.
So overall for Ameren in the quarter what we saw on a weather-normalized basis was residential sales down a little over 2% commercial sales down between 0.5% and 1%.
So we saw some -- again some weather normalized declines in the quarter and again how much of that may have been a reaction to the extreme weather in some of the bills people received is difficult to know.
We expected coming into the year to have about residential commercial sales about 0.5% to 1% of growth.
What we’re now expecting for the year Paul is that residential sales to be down somewhere around 0.5% for the year still expecting to see some commercial growth however up to 0.5%.
I think on industrial side we’re seeing pretty flat loads in terms of industrial sales in Missouri.
While we’re still seeing some growth in Illinois we’re seeing growth year-to-date in Illinois of about 3.9% and we’re expecting for the year all across Ameren to have growth of about 2.7%.
That means in terms of regulatory lag and going forward I mean with the conservation efforts that we’ve seen actually around the country for a while now or whatever it is least usage.
How should we think is your potential for regulatory lag in Missouri that you guys are -- or did not I guess and this really briefly on the merchant depreciation went down about $0.05.
Was that because of Duck Creek or was it anything else? Let me have that one and then maybe I actually got Warner Baxter talk about Missouri but yeah you may look back.
When you look back to our beginning of the year guidance compared to now.
Our actual guidance today is about $0.05 higher than it was at the beginning of the year.
And in part that is because of the Duck Creek write-off which then positively impacted depreciation and that’s about $0.05 for the year.
So that is part of that Paul.
It looks like it was $0.05 for the quarter though.
Yeah.
We also I think the other thing that we did in the quarter that you’ll see in the 10-Q is we actually did adjust some of our asset retirement obligations for certain ash pond closures and that had a little bit of an impact as well.
Okay.
And Paul this is Warner.
Just a couple of things to keep in mind number one with regard to these lower sales.
Be mindful that we’re in the mindful of our current rate case.
So consequently we update our billing units for the lower sales levels.
And so those were done through June.
And so a piece of the things that you’re seeing at least throughout 2012 are part of our overall rate increase request that you see today.
But secondly -- but you have to be mindful of is that as we go forward I think Marty mentioned during the talking points that that we had a new energy efficiency regulatory framework that’s been put in place.
So we’re going to be moving on in some additional energy efficiency programs which obviously going to be beneficial for our customers but also as part of that we’re going to now recover our program costs but also will be able to recover the loss fixed costs or the loss revenues associated with some of those.
That’s part of the existing rate case as well and frankly a settlement that the commission is already approved.
And so I think there is still risk to be clear for regulatory lag associated with conservation efforts.
We have taken steps with this rate case and with our new energy efficiency proposal to try and mitigate that to some extent.
I’ll let other people ask question.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Paul you line is live Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Julien.
First quick question on the quarter with regard to Illinois to $0.012.
Could you break that apart in terms of the distribution versus the quarterly shift versus the earnings under the rate making? Well I guess we’ll break it down this way Julien.
I think about the -- I attribute about $0.05 of that total of the 12 to the impacts of the rate order that we received.
And the remainder of it really having to do with the distribution of revenues and earnings? Great.
And so next year should we see this more normalized given the fact that the rate making has been in effect for the balance of this year.
So this will kind of go away year-on-year? Yeah.
I think it should normalize year-over-year.
And I think what we’ll do is we move into next year to see whether we can if there is any variation that we can foresee and project we’ll certainly provide that.
But certainly what it has to do with is this year what we’re trying to do under the formula rate making is preserve some of the seasonality of the revenue requirement.
But as you go through the year and there are changes in the estimated overall revenue requirement for the year than those are adjusted within the quarter which is one of the things that impacted us here in this quarter.
I think Julien in terms of the drivers on our slide 12 drivers have overall electric DS earnings we try to lay out some of the overall drivers as we see them right now given the impacts of the ICC order.
Great.
Quick follow-up there you discussed lower CapEx in Illinois I believe for ‘13.
Can you kind of provide a little bit of a sense on a go-forward basis.
What kind of capital expenditure reductions we could potentially see depending on what happens upon re-hearing et cetera.
Where could this go ultimately? Well I think there is something that we’ll have to evaluate over time.
Obviously we gave the 2013 number.
What impactor is on 2014 or beyond is something that we have to evaluate as we move through time.
Our focus right now as you heard in our talking points is trying to get the legislative intent and corporate it into the rate making process.
We still do believe that over the long-term they formulate a great model attended by the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
It is good for Ameren Illinois and its customers and so we’re certainly appealing the decision of the ICC to the courts.
And as we noted in our prepared remarks again considering what legislative remedies might be possible.
But just to be clear it wouldn’t necessarily impact any of your commitments under the formula rate making? That’s true we’ve made commitments under the formula ratemaking and so we look at our capital ventures so certainly to the extent we’re participating in the formula ratemaking.
We will fulfill our commitments under the law.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Just curious what are -- how you -- when you think how structurally across both the Missouri and Illinois regulated businesses what are the structural impediments to earning your authorized rate of return.
Which ones tend to be kind of the biggest drivers that keep you from being able to do so?  Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah.
Michael this is Marty again.
I think let’s start with Illinois.
I think when you look at the slide that we provided slide 12.
You see some of those impacts as it relates to the Illinois electric delivery business in terms of ratemaking adjustments at certain costs that are incurred that are non-recoverable which we’ve laid out again for the electric distribution business thereon on slide 12.
Other things I remind for instance as weather sometimes.
I mean for example on our gas business this year in Illinois earnings are down roughly $0.03 because of weather.
So that type of thing can certainly drive it down.
And then I think Michael I think you and others have this baked into your overall analysis in Illinois.
But I just remind you that the goodwill in Illinois is deducted out for ratemaking purposes against the equity in that overall business.
So and that’s always been the case that’s not something that’s new that’s historical ratemaking adjustment.
But again I’d remind you of that.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Alex Tai with Standard General.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
How you are doing? Good morning.
I just had a question on -- and I believe you commented on just previously but I just we can get more specific on in terms of -- and you said previously that you would be able to comply with [mac] without undertaking scrubbing program for Newton in your merchant gene segment and obviously that’s sort of irrespective of the deep variances recently granted.
I was just wondering maybe you could provide a little bit more detail on how you think you can there in terms of compliance and is that sort of baked within your current CapEx plan? Sure.
Yeah.
This is Marty again you are correct on all that.
I mean that is consistent with what we said in the past.
One of the reasons that we were pursuing the variance from the Multi-Pollutant Standard with the Illinois Pollution Control Board was in fact that we were able to comply with the match rules without that scrubber.
And it was really these Illinois rules that were imposing the need to construct that scrubber.
So we do believe that the capital expenditure plans that we’ve laid out will -- while as to comply with MATS.
And it’s really a function of a number of things.
It’s a function of the investments that we’ve already made in our plans overtime.
We’ve made significant investments in pollution control equipment.
We also burned low sulfur coal which helps with our overall missions.
And as a result of compliance with the Multi-Pollutant Standard Illinois we are already using significant amounts of activated carbon for control of mercury.
So through the -- I’d say the compliance with the Multi-Pollutant Standard we’ve actually built into our operations of those things that are needed to comply with the MATS rules.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Ashar Khan with Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
Marty I just wanted to reconfirm what you’re saying -- as you look from ‘12 to ‘13 is this $0.12 recovered or is this just lost and there’s no positive delta year-over-year? Yeah.
It’s not really the $0.12 year-over-year.
I think that what is more permanent I would say until we get either of some fixed to the ICC ratemaking to conform with the act or otherwise adjust our spending or capital structure.
I guess what I am saying to that point you back to slide 12 again.
I think those are really the drivers of the earnings and as I said earlier the $0.12 when you break it down was really $0.05 having to do with the ICC rate order and then remainder just really been seasonality of the revenue requirement earnings under formula ratemaking.
We try the provide on slide 12 though we are more -- it was more a straightforward build up or provide you with a straightforward building blocks to build up to the revenue requirement as we see it today given the ICCs rate order.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah Ashar.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones on the Genco side of the house real quickly.
In terms of the fuel hedge I notice that the 14 number actually kind of stepped up by $0.50 there.
I think it’s little less than we’ve been intuitive given some of the recent trends to just be curious? Yeah.
Julien that’s right.
And so in our prepared remarks we tried to provide a comment on this.
What we did do in the quarter was rebalance our mix of coal hedges a little bit and then rebalancing of the coal hedges actually impacted the average price a little bit.
As you see in that too you might notice that the coal hedge present -- the coal hedge number dropdown from about $14 million megawatthours to $13 which also aligns with the forward power sales that we’ve made about $13 million megawatthours.
So it was a bit of rebalancing of the coal hedge mix.
Yet remember these are -- we round off to the nearest $0.50.
So there is a little bit of rounding in there that coal hedge rebalancing wasn’t a full $0.50 sort of impact and -- but that was I’d say one of the drivers.
Great.
And then the second question here I mean obviously you talked about free cash flow break-even for Genco.
I’ll be curious how do you think about execution of the put options specifically your queue alludes to losing access to some of your other sources of liquidity at some point.
Would you imagine execution that we put in tandem with some of the other liquidity source losses do you get what I am saying? Yeah.
I know you would necessarily be in tandem with the other liquidity source losses.
Like I said they still as we figured well at 9/30 they had about $57 million of both cash and the money pool advances on the balance sheet.
So we will be thinking about that as we look at the overall cash flows going into next year and the year beyond what the available cash is as they again seek to cover their own cash needs.
And then making a decision about what the right course of action is in terms of execution of that option.
Right.
So effectively to be clear once you roll off of the existing cash balances at that point you will probably take a look at execution.
Well that’s right.
To the extent that the cash balances roll down and if we were in a position where we didn’t see the ability for them to meet their own cash needs certainly then would be in a position where we would be executing the put option.
But again right now I mentioned sort of the overall liquidity that they’ve got.
Right.
Absolutely and just to be clearly also if you would execute the put option if you would you expect to sell those assets in turn do you kind of -- would this be a transition or anything or would you effectively intend to keep those new assets at the new subsidiary? Well I guess only the end of the day we have the option to do either but certainly the idea was that if Genco exercise to put obviously they get $100 immediately.
They get the remainder of any excess to the fair value over the $100 million as determined by the appraisals at closing.
And then AERG we would actually then have those assets we’ll have the ability to -- so one or all of those in order to reduce outstanding borrowings resulting from the put.
Right.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Our next follow-up question is from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Paul your line is live.
Sorry about that.
Can you hear me.
Yeah.
The ash pound ARO is that just for the quarter or is there an ongoing impact associated with that? No.
It just for the quarter.
We periodically actually update our estimates.
These ones in particular that had to do with Meredosia and Hutsonville and some of the closure there.
As we are working through the closure of those facilities and had better estimates on the overall cost it’s really one-time kind of impact.
The severe weather that you mentioned in the release.
I gather that and also in your comments that’s this hot weather that you guys incurred in the summer were there any new peak this summer just in terms of I know what you gave us sort of megawatthour declines but was there any how to peak -- how was peak compared to megawatthour volume if you follow me? I think we comment on some of the peaks.
Actually last quarter but I will let maybe Maureen Borkowski talk about the overall system peak … Yeah.
From our systems standpoint we did set a new all time peak.
Being at 2008 I believe was a previous all time.
Within the two individual systems either Ameren Illinois or Ameren Missouri Ameren Illinois set a new peak but Ameren Missouri did not exceed it’s all time peak.
Okay.
And then just finally given this outlook that we’ve seen around the country and the memories to serve the gas industry LBCs and how we took some to come around to decoupling just any thoughts there about way to sort of mitigate the potential issue that we might be seeing here.
Also considering that it seems the Missouri seems to have and other jurisdictions around the country Warner have conservation what have you any thoughts about decoupling or how should we think about that and how you guys approaching that kind of issue? Hi Paul.
This is Warner.
I can speak from Missouri.
Certainly we don’t rule decoupling out and in fact other than discussions at decommission as to whether decoupling is an approach forward.
And so there is no formal docket on that but that’s certainly one thing we look.
But in part that’s why we took the steps that we did and we’re able to achieve a meaningful enhancement for energy efficiency that was a meaningful stuff change.
Because absent that those energy efficiency programs really could not move forward.
And so you look at decoupling you may look at other regulatory mechanisms that would try and address energy efficiency issues or conservation issues.
It’s not something that’s imminent but it’s certainly something that’s on our list of things that we have to continue to look at.
As you right for the point out the environment changes a bit from what we’ve seen in the past.
Ultimately what we are pushing from trying to do in Missouri and certainly Illinois is we can promote economic development to try and get growth not just from our residential commercial but also to get investment made in the state.
So we can put people back to work and actually get electric sales growth from that perspective as well.
Great.
This is Marty.
Couple of other things I mean just a reminder in Illinois of course with the formula rates I mean one of the benefits is that we do have the formula rates and there is a caller on the overall earned ROE or the lot of ROE plus or minus 50% basis points.
So certainly there is a provision within that overall formulaic rates that’s certainly helpful.
The other thing know is well -- this year again I think maybe because of some of the weather we’re certainly seen more flattish residential and commercial loads.
Like I said we are still seeing industrial loads growing in Illinois.
And as we look at overtime we do expect to see some level of GDP growth overtime and with it even after the impact of energy efficiency do you still expect to see growth and electric demand and maybe a less than what we’ve historically seen but nonetheless expect to see growth in the electric demand as a company anyway going forward.
Did you have any ratio associated with GDP that you can share with us that you are expecting in terms of that I mean in terms of what percent I mean if you have 2% GDP growth what that would translate in terms of the electric growth do you guys have this estimation or? Yeah.
I don’t have it in my finger tips… Okay.
Updated one but like I said I think overall we certainly are expecting net of energy efficiency that relationship that ratio to be less than that historically has been but nonetheless they are all positive.
Okay.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.
This is Doug Fischer.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for one year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst enquiry should be directed to me Doug Fischer or Matt Thayer my associate.
Media should call Brian Bretsch.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is| being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors Section of our website under Webcast and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors section in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of 2012 results and 2013 guidance followed by a discussion of recent regulatory and business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of 2012 financial results 2013 guidance and regulatory and other financial matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before I turn the call over to Tom I would like to mention that we are now using the term "adjusted" to designate our non-GAAP earnings rather than our former term of "core." Let me be clear that we have not modified our approach as to how we calculate and present non-GAAP earnings.
Only the designation has changed.
With that housekeeping out of the way here's Tom who will start on Page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced 2012 adjusted earnings of $2.42 per share in line with both our narrowed November 2012 and our initial year-ago guidance ranges.
This is a decline from 2011 adjusted earnings of $2.56 per share reflecting lower earnings from our merchant generation business.
2012 adjusted earnings from our rate-regulated utilities were $2.29 per share equal to the level achieved in 2011 reflecting on the positive side of a full year of the 2011 Missouri electric rate increase and the absence of a Callaway refueling outage in 2012.
These positive factors were offset by reduced Illinois electric delivery earnings reflecting a lower allowed return on equity resulting from low treasury bond yields and required non-recoverable program donations related to 2012 implementation of formula ratemaking.
The regulated utility earnings comparison was also impacted by the negative effect of warmer 2012 winter weather on electric and gas sales volumes.
Merchant generation adjusted 2012 earnings were $0.17 per share a decline of $0.13 per share compared to 2011 primarily due to lower power prices and higher fuel costs.
On December 20 of last year we announced that we intend to exit our merchant generation business.
As a result of this decision we stated that Ameren expected to take a fourth quarter 2012 charge against earnings to reduce the carrying value of our merchant generation business's energy centers.
The 2012 GAAP loss of $4.01 per share which we announced today included both this fourth quarter charge and a first quarter charge related to the merchant generation business.
Together these non-cash impairment charges totaled $6.42 per share.
Marty will provide more details on our earnings in a few minutes.
Moving to Page 4 I would like to highlight some key 2012 accomplishments.
I am pleased to report that we posted our best safety performance in company history as measured by work -- lost workday away accidents.
Further our utilities recorded their best electric distribution system reliability performance in our history.
In addition Ameren Missouri's Callaway Nuclear Energy Center performed exceptionally well in 2012 running continuously since its November 2011 refueling.
We also had several notable regulatory accomplishments last year.
We obtained FERC approval for constructive rate treatment of Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois' Spoon River and Mark Twain projects greenfield regional projects expected to enter service in 2018 and forward-looking ratemaking for Ameren Illinois' electric transmission business.
Ameren Missouri received a needed electric rate increase in December of last year with new rates that became effective in January of 2013 and our merchant generation business won unanimous approval from the Illinois  Pollution Control Board for a variance to the Illinois Multi-Pollutant Standard allowing all of its currently operating energy centers to continue operating through 2019 without derates or shutdowns due to state sulfur dioxide limitations.
Finally the Edison Electric Institute honored both Ameren Illinois and Ameren Missouri with the association's Emergency Assistance Award recognizing both utilities for their outstanding response in restoring electric service to New Jersey residents in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.
Turning now to Page 5.
Today we also announced Ameren's 2013 GAAP and adjusted earnings guidance range of $2 to $2.20 per share.
The projected decline in 2013 adjusted earnings per share compared to 2012 reflects an expected loss this year in the merchant generation segment due to lower power prices as opposed to earnings before impairment charges in 2012.
The midpoint of adjusted earnings guidance for our regulated utilities is $2.25 per share.
Again Marty will provide details regarding our earnings guidance later on this call.
Moving to Page 6 I will now update you on regulatory matters at our utilities.
We continue to believe that modern constructive regulatory frameworks which provide timely cash flows and a reasonable opportunity to earn fair returns on investments are in the best long-term interest of our customers in the states in which we operate.
These frameworks support our ability to obtain cash on a more timely basis to reinvest in our energy infrastructure and also attract capital on terms which facilitate timely investments to modernize our regulated companies' aging infrastructure.
And such investments enhance reliability and the overall quality of service we can deliver to our customers as well as improve the environment and help us meet our customers' and states' energy needs and expectations.
All this ultimately helps us deliver on our customers' #1 priority reliability and also assists us in creating well-paying jobs.
As I previously mentioned in December of last year Ameren Missouri received approval from the Missouri Public Service Commission to increase electric rates.
The amount of the increase was $260 million annually and was based on an allowed return on equity of 9.8%.
These new rates went into effect on January 2.
Through this rate order we did make incremental progress in our efforts to enhance the electric utility regulatory framework in Missouri.
The Missouri PSC rate order meaningfully improved the regulatory framework for energy efficiency programs and enabled us to launch the largest energy efficiency program in the state's history.
In addition Missouri PSC authorized implementation of a new storm restoration cost-tracking mechanism that provides the opportunity to recover cost incurred to restore service after major storms in a manner that is both fair to both customers and investors.
The Missouri PSC also confirms some key provisions associated with the fuel adjustment clause.
We continue to strongly believe that modernizing Missouri's energy policies to support investment in the state's aging energy infrastructure will clearly bring long-term benefits to our customers and the entire state of Missouri.
That is why we along with every other investor-owned electric utility in the state strongly support the Infrastructure Strengthening and Regulatory Streamlining act filed in the Missouri Senate and House of Representatives a few weeks ago.
This legislation is intended to modernizing -- to modernize Missouri electric regulatory framework by providing for a more timely recovery of investments that are actually serving customers between rate cases.
This legislation is largely fashioned after the infrastructure recovery legislation that has been utilized by the water and gas utilities in the state.
The proposed legislation also contains a cost tracker for certain operations and maintenance expenses.
In addition this legislation streamlines regulation while maintaining all the consumer protections in the current water and gas infrastructure laws including very strong oversight and approval of these expenditures by the Missouri Public Service Commission before they are reflected in customer rates.
Simply put modernizing the regulatory framework in Missouri will allow us to modernize our energy infrastructure in a more timely fashion enabling us to meet our customers' and the states' energy needs and expectations now and in the future while providing strong consumer protections and creating jobs.
It's a win-win for everyone.
Turning now to Page 7 and an Illinois regulatory update.
In 2011 the Illinois General Assembly enacted the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
This act was designed to promote investment in electric utility grid modernization and promote well-paying jobs through establishment of formula ratemaking for electric delivery service.
However in our view the Illinois Commerce Commission or ICC misapplied the act in our electric delivery formula rate orders last year.
Nevertheless we continue to believe that this formula ratemaking framework is constructive if properly applied.
We have appealed the ICC's formula rate orders in state court and we are also actively seeking a legislative solution in a 2-pronged effort to address the ICC's misapplication of the act.
We have taken these actions to ensure that the goals of the act are realized.
Further we support legislation recently introduced in the Illinois General Assembly which would provide formula ratemaking for our Illinois gas delivery service.
As with electric delivery this legislation would provide a framework for accelerated gas infrastructure investment and job creation.
Last month we filed a request for an annual increase in gas delivery rates of $50 million.
The case is based on a future test year ending in December 2014.
The increase we are requesting reflects in part costs we are incurring in 2013.
Moving to Page 8 I will conclude my prepared remarks on our regulated utility businesses by updating you on a key driver of our expected future growth our exciting plans to invest in FERC-regulated electric transmission projects.
Customers should benefit from improved reliability in a more efficient electric system and constructive formula ratemaking in place for these projects provides a reasonable opportunity to earn fair returns on investments in these businesses.
Rates for both Ameren Illinois Company and Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois or ATXI are updated each year based on a forward-looking calculation with an annual reconciliation based on actual incurred cost a provision that reduces regulatory lag.
Also ATXI has received FERC approval to include construction work in progress and rate base for investments in the Illinois River's Spoon River and Mark Twain projects providing timely cash returns on investments.
Given the customer benefits our transmission projects should provide and FERC's constructive regulatory framework we continue to move forward with plans to invest meaningful incremental capital in these businesses.
In fact Ameren expects to invest a total of approximately $2.2 billion in FERC-regulated transmission projects over a 5-year period ending in 2017.
Ameren Illinois' projects are focused on local load growth and reliability needs and investments is expected to approximate $1 billion over the same 5-year period.
ATXI is focused on greenfield regional transmission projects initially within Illinois and Missouri and plans to invest approximately $1.2 billion over the next 5 years.
Our single largest planned transmission investment is ATXI's Illinois Rivers project.
This important MISO-approved regional multi-value project involves a construction of a new high-voltage transmission line across the state of Illinois.
It will enhance reliability and create new construction jobs in the state.
In November 2012 we filed a request with the ICC for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the approximately 400-mile transmission line route with a decision on our request expected to be issued in August of this year.
Once we receive the certificate from the ICC we will begin to acquire rights-of-way for the transmission line with a full range of construction activities expected to begin in 2014.
Turning to Page 9 I would like to close my prepared remarks with a discussion of our merchant generation business.
In December of last year we announced that we intend to exit this business.
Ameren no longer considers merchant generation to be a core component of its future business strategy.
The volatility of earnings and cash flows of the merchant generation business as well as the high degree of uncertainty regarding future returns on incremental capital invested in this business are not in alignment with Ameren's current strategy.
The announcement of our intent to exit the business follows a trend of decreasing earnings and cash flows from this segment since 2008.
The timing and method of our exit from the merchant generation business is uncertain with a sale or [ph] restructuring possible.
In considering our path forward senior management and the Board of Directors are focused on maximizing the overall benefit to Ameren consistent with our legal obligations.
While we are working to exit the merchant generation business in a prudent manner let me reassure you that our management team remains highly focused on our regulated utilities including growing our investments in jurisdictions with constructive regulatory frameworks so that we may better serve customers.
I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Page 10 of the presentation.
As Tom discussed today we reported 2012 GAAP loss of $4.01 per share compared to 2011 GAAP earnings of $2.15 per share.
This 2012 GAAP loss reflects the previously discussed impairment charges resulting from the write-downs of the merchant generation business' energy centers.
Excluding the items noted on this page Ameren recorded 2012 adjusted earnings of $2.42 per share compared with 2011 adjusted earnings of $2.56 per share.
On Page 11 we list key factors that drove the $0.14 per share decrease in 2012 adjusted earnings compared to 2011 adjusted earnings.
The combined 2012 adjusted earnings results from our regulated utilities Ameren Missouri Ameren Illinois and ATXI were $2.29 per share unchanged from the level achieved in 2011.
These flat regulated utility results reflected on the positive side of full year of the July 2011 Missouri electric rate increase and the January 2012 Illinois gas rate increase; the absence of a Callaway refueling in 2012 compared to 2011; and the 2012 favorable FERC order related to a disputed power purchase agreement which expired in 2009 among other factors.
These positive factors were offset by reduced Illinois electric delivery earnings reflecting a lower allowed return on equity resulting from low treasury bond yields and required non-recoverable program donations related to 2012 implementation of formula ratemaking among other things.
Other factors negatively impacting the comparison of 2012 earnings to 2011 earnings included higher depreciation and tax expenses at Ameren Missouri.
This higher depreciation expense reflected increased plant investment while tax expense increased due to a higher effective income tax rate and increased property taxes.
Finally weather had a negative impact on both electric and gas sales volumes reducing 2012 earnings by an estimated $0.07 per share compared to 2011.
Winter weather was much warmer in 2012 than the near-normal temperatures experienced in 2011 more than offsetting the slightly positive earnings impact of 2012 summer temperatures.
They were close to those experienced in 2011.
While weather had a negative impact on the year-over-year earnings comparison we estimate that weather benefited 2012 earnings by $0.09 per share compared to normal temperatures.
Absent from this list of key 2012 earnings variance drivers is a change in weather-normalized retail electric sales volumes.
Such sales to residential and commercial customers increased 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This was a definite improvement from the 1.5% decline experienced in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 2011.
Full year 2012 weather-normalized sales to residential and commercial customers declined about 0.6%.
However this was partially offset by a 2.1% increase in sales to industrial customers with higher industrial sales in Illinois more than offsetting lower industrial sales in Missouri.
Overall we estimate that the weather-normalized retail electric sales volume decline reduced 2012 earnings by approximately $0.02 per share compared to 2011.
While adjusted 2012 regulated earnings were unchanged compared to 2011 adjusted earnings from our merchant generation business declined $0.13 per share compared again to 2011.
This was primarily the result of lower power prices and higher per-megawatt hour fuel costs partially offset by lower depreciation and Operations &amp; Maintenance expenses.
These expense reductions primarily reflected the closure of the Meredosia and Hutsonville energy centers at year end 2011 and the first quarter 2012 impairment charge related to the Duck Creek energy center.
Tuning to Page 12.
I would now like to discuss the key drivers and assumptions behind our 2013 earnings guidance for our Missouri and Illinois regulated utility businesses.
The midpoint of our guidance is $2.25 per share.
In 2013 we expect to achieve an earned return of equity of approximately 9.1% on regulated utility common equity of approximately $6 billion.
This guidance assumes a return to normal weather reducing earnings by an estimated $0.09 per share compared to 2012 results.
On a weather-normalized basis we project little electric sales growth in 2013 compared to last year.
Also Ameren Missouri earnings will reflect the absence of the favorable 2012 FERC order relating to the disputed power agreement reducing 2013 earnings by $0.07 per share compared to 2012.
In addition 2013 earnings will be impacted by the Missouri electric rate increase that went into effect last month including the impacts of the MEEIA settlement regarding enhanced energy efficiency programs.
Ameren Missouri's Callaway Nuclear Energy Center has a scheduled spring 2013 refueling and maintenance outage.
This is expected to reduce 2013 earnings by approximately $0.10 per share compared to 2012 since there was no refueling outage last year.
In addition Illinois gas delivery and Missouri Operations &amp; Maintenance cost beyond those resulting from the Callaway refueling are also expected to increase in 2013.
This O&amp;M increase includes a $7 million budgeted increase in Missouri storm costs an amount which was incorporated into the December 2012 rate order and is subject to the new storm restoration cost tracker.
Turning then to Page 13 we continue our discussion of the key drivers and assumptions behind our 2013 regulated utility earnings guidance.
Our guidance incorporates our formula ratemaking expectations for our Illinois electric delivery business.
Our earnings expectations for this business are based on an estimated 2013 year end rate base of $2.06 billion; an equity ratio of 51%; and an estimated formula midpoint allowed return on equity of 8.9% which incorporates a forecasted 2013 average 30-year treasury yield of 3.1%.
This treasury yield forecast is based on the Blue Chip consensus estimate as of January 1 2013.
Further our guidance reflects the fact that several types of costs are non-recoverable in rates.
These non-recoverable cost include approximately $8 million of ICC ratemaking adjustments.
In addition we expect to spend about $7 million this year on certain electric system rework that is not recoverable in rates.
And finally approximately $1 million of non-recoverable donations are required under the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act a reduction of $7.5 million -- or improvement of $7.5 million compared to 2012.
We also expect higher transmission earnings from Ameren Illinois and ATXI in 2013 compared to 2012 reflecting rate base growth and reduced regulatory lag reflecting implementation of forward-looking FERC ratemaking with annual reconciliations for Ameren Illinois in 2013.
Moving to Page 14.
I will conclude the discussion of 2013 earnings guidance by briefly touching on the merchant generation business and other category.
Here we expect a midpoint loss of $0.15 per share.
The most significant driver of the expected earnings decline in 2013 compared to 2012 is a decrease in merchant generation margins of $0.45 to $0.50 per share primarily due to lower realized power prices.
We project 2013 merchant generation non-fuel Operations &amp; Maintenance expenses will be approximately $270 million.
Depreciation expense is expected to be approximately $0.17 per share lower in 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of the 2012 impairment charges.
Regarding key Ameren-wide assumptions our earnings guidance reflects in an effective consolidated income tax rate of approximately 38% and the average number of common shares outstanding in 2013 is forecasted to be unchanged at 242.6 million since our dividend reinvestment and 401(k) plans are expected to purchase shares on the open market this year as was the case last year.
As I close our discussion of 2013 earnings guidance I'll remind you that any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses will affect our GAAP earnings but are excluded from our GAAP earning guidance because the company is unable to reasonably estimate the impact of any such gains or losses.
Adjusted non-GAAP earnings and guidance also exclude any net unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses.
Further earnings guidance is subject to the risks and uncertainties outlined or referred to in the Forward-looking Statements section of today's press release.
Turning then to Page 15.
We provide both our actual 2012 and projected 2013 cash flow information.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our cash flows from operating activities and subtracting from it our capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and net advances for construction.
In 2012 we experienced negative free cash flow of $12 million.
For 2013 we anticipate negative free cash flow of $435 million.
The projected decline in free cash flow compared to last year reflects lower expected cash flows from operating activities and higher expected capital spending.
Cash flow from operating activities is expected to decline compared to 2012 primarily due to lower adjusted earnings in our merchant generation segment.
The higher 2013 capital expenditures reflect increased expected spending at our regulated utilities partially offset by lower expected spending at the merchant generation business.
We expect 2013 free cash flow to be negative for Ameren's regulated utilities reflecting the significant investments we are making in these businesses.
However we expect both the merchant generation business segment and Ameren Energy Generating Company or GENCO to be roughly cash flow neutral in 2013 presuming continued Ameren ownership of the merchant generation business and/or GENCO.
These expectations incorporate approximately $100 million for the merchant generation segment and approximately $60 million for GENCO of expected cash benefits from the Ameren tax allocation agreement.
These actual -- the actual level of cash tax sharing benefits realized is subject to the realization of forecasted levels of taxable income or loss at Ameren and its subsidiaries.
Further these free cash flow estimates assume 2013 merchant generation segment and GENCO cash capital expenditures of approximately $50 million and approximately $45 million respectively.
Moving from a discussion of earnings and cash flow I would like to comment on the recently received Missouri electric rate order and the recently filed Illinois gas delivery rating -- rate request.
Turning to Page 16 of our presentation.
As Tom already mentioned in December of last year the Missouri PSC approved an approximately $260 million annual increase in Ameren Missouri's retail electric rates.
Of this amount approximately $84 million is for recovery of higher net fuel costs and approximately $80 million is related to the enhanced energy efficiency programs approved by the Missouri Public Service Commission in an August 2012 settlement.
Among other things the order incorporated a 9.8% allowed return on equity and continued the fuel adjustment clause with its 95-5 sharing split.
Tom previously discussed several important aspects of this rate order and I refer you to the information on pages 16 and 17 of our presentation for more details on this rate order.
Moving now to Page 18.
Last month Ameren Illinois filed a request with the ICC for a $50 million annual increase in natural gas delivery service rates based on a future test year ended December 31 2014.
The ICC is required to issue an order in December of 2013 with new rates expected to be effective late that month.
The key drivers of this request are rate base growth reflecting additional investment in plant higher operating expenses a requested increase in the allowed return on equity and lower usage by residential and small non-residential customers.
Turning to Page 19 other aspects of the request include a proposal to increase to 85% from the current 80% proportion of the gas delivery revenue requirement as collected through the fixed monthly charge.
This change would provide greater stability to customers' delivery rates and greater stability to Ameren Illinois' gas margins.
We have also requested approval of an approximately $80 million plan to install advanced gas metering infrastructure over the 2014 through 2019 period similar to the period over which we will be installing advanced electric metering infrastructure in Illinois.
The concurrent installation of these systems for customers to whom Ameren Illinois provides both services will be cost beneficial.
Moving to Page 20 I will summarize our projections for growing Ameren's investment in the regulated utility businesses over the 5-year period ending 2017.
As you can see we plan to allocate a growing and substantial portion of our investment dollars to utility businesses operating under constructive formula-based regulatory frameworks.
Nearly 30% of our planned 5-year $8.1 billion of regulated utility investment is slated for FERC-regulated transmission projects at Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
Another 30% of planned investments for the 5-year period is for our Illinois electric and gas delivery services.
We are also making meaningful ongoing investments in our Missouri utility operations but these investments are expected to grow at a much slower rate than those in the FERC-regulated transmission and Illinois electric delivery businesses.
However as Tom mentioned earlier we do believe it is in our customers' best long-term interest to grow our investments in our Missouri operations at a greater rate if the regulatory framework is modernized so that regulatory lag can be minimized.
Turning to Page 21 we show that these aggregate regulated capital investment plans translate into expected rate base growth of approximately 7% annually from 2013 through 2017.
With this growth most rapid in regulatory jurisdictions with constructive formula ratemaking we believe we are on a path that will enhance our ability to earn fair returns on a growing level of utility investment.
Moving to Page 22 I will conclude my prepared remarks by discussing our intention to exit the merchant generation business.
As we stated back in December we have begun planning to reduce and ultimately eliminate over time merchant generation's reliance on Ameren's shared services and financial support as a result of our decision to exit the business.
We are focused on making this transition in an orderly manner.
Ameren currently provides at cost approximately $30 million annually of shared services such as IT systems finance accounting and human resources to the merchant generation business.
In addition Ameren provides various forms of financial support to the merchant generation business segment.
This support includes a non-rate regulated money pool under which merchant generation units may have access at Ameren's discretion to short-term intercompany borrowings.
At year end 2012 GENCO had no borrowings from this money pool.
In fact it had $25 million of cash or equivalents on hand and was a lender to the money pool.
Other financial support to the merchant generation business includes guarantees and credit support for coal supply contracts and guarantees for Ameren Energy Marketing energy contracts.
Details of these guarantees and credit support will be provided in our 10-K.
Further Ameren guarantees AERG's obligations under the put option arrangements between GENCO and AERG.
I would note that Ameren and AERG do not expect to extend the put option beyond its March 28 2014 expiration.
Of course we will update you on our plans to exit the merchant generation business as appropriate over time.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
We will now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just touch on the disclosure and thank you for the additional disclosure on the merchant business as well as the increased spending at the utility.
Regarding the merchant business can you just discuss a little bit further whether you're taking action to actively evaluate strategic alternatives for the business? Or are you still more on the assessment phase? Is this something that is taking time with management? Is this something that you're actively pursuing at this time? Sure Stephen.
I'll see if I can expand a little bit.
Obviously we put out the 8-K suggesting that we expected to exit from the business.
I think one of the things we tried today was to provide clarity that that exit could take the form of either sale or restructuring.
And as you would expect management is spending time and attention with respect to those exit strategies and exit possibilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And just as a follow-up you laid out shared services which was helpful.
Presuming that you did have a complete exit from merchant generation should we assume that that $30 million would not effectively be transferred back to the parent but would effectively -- no longer be an expense to the parent because those services are truly allocated and dedicated to the merchant business? Yes Stephen.
We would expect that in the event of a merchant exit that that cost -- the cost that $30 million could be substantially eliminated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Substantially eliminated? So does that mean when you look at that $30 million that it is -- that that truly is allocated and you wouldn't see a substantial portion coming back to the parent? Yes.
I guess what I'm saying is a large part of that is dedicated specifically to support of the merchant business.
And so in the event of the exit much of that cost could be eliminated.
And so yes that is what I'm saying is that we would work to eliminate -- reduce and eliminate those costs.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Listen.
On the guarantees and credit support for the coal contracts and for the Ameren Energy Marketing energy contracts you mentioned that there's going to be some disclosure in the 10-K.
Could you give us a general sense as to what the level of those obligations might be? Yes.
Sure Paul.
I think that -- and we did list it in the script the way you said it.
But I would say that these guarantees are actually primarily on behalf of Ameren Energy Marketing.
And the extent of those right now I'd say is about $200 million of guarantees.
And like I said it's primarily for power transactions.
The actual mark-to-market exposure under those is only about $25 million.
But that's the -- I think that gives you a general sense of the scope.
And again there will be more details on the 10-K.
Okay.
And then with respect to the CapEx numbers that you're mentioning at the utility and the fact that you're negative free cash flow there should -- how should we think about the financing going forward? Because it looks like you guys have a lot of CapEx forecasted if you're having your rate base go that much.
How should we think about the financing and specifically the potential for equity or equity-like financing in the next couple of years? Sure.
Well when you look at the debt financing I guess a couple of things.
One of the things we've talked about over time is looking to keep the cap structures of our regulated entities in that range of say 50% to 53% equity which is something that we would work to do over time.
As you look at this next year and the negative $435 million a couple of things to look at.
One we did finish the year with no borrowings under our credit facilities a couple hundred million dollars of cash on hand as we go into next year.
We would also look over time -- as we have in the past we have the earnings and the regulated businesses that produced retained earnings which are in excess of the dividends that we pay out.
So there's -- those retained earnings are there to again build equity in the regulated businesses such that then we can also do some debt financing to cover this -- some of this cash flow shortfall.
That said as we move through time like I said we will look to keep those cap structures in that 50% to 53% range in terms of equity.
Right now we're not issuing shares under the drip of 401(k).
As we mentioned on the call we don't have -- we don't anticipate doing that in 2013.
But as we move into 2014 and beyond it's certainly a possibility that we would begin again issuing stock associated with those drip and 401(k) programs in order to keep the equity content within the regulated entities in that 50% to 53% range.
Any sense as to how much those drips would be? Historically Paul they were in the $75 million to $100 million range.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
First of all I just want to congratulate -- I would just want to congratulate the senior management and Tom.
Known the company for quite a long period of time and Ameren used to be a premium regulated utility with one of the highest P/E multiples in the sector 20 years back.
And I really appreciate you going through the strategy and returning it to its roots.
And I would just hope the process is quick and fast because you deserve to be back to a premium regulated utility.
And I just wanted to thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your comments.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First kind of following up on some of the GENCO discussion here given the potential to sell the assets here how do you think about some of the eventual tax benefits kind of akin to some of your other neighboring peers they've discussed? Is there some kind of NOL benefit here we could be looking at? Well Julian I can't comment on -- akin to our neighbors.
But yes I think that there has been -- some have written about.
I think some have tried to take a look at say the deferred taxes overall at Ameren and then subtract out the regulated utility balances.
And I would just caution that I think when you do that you end up with I'd say too large of a number.
There are certain deferred tax balances up at the Ameren corp level related to Ameren-specific things like employee benefit plans whether they'd be deferred comp or share plans as well as deferred taxes on NOLs and tax credit carryforwards and things like that.
There are also -- in terms of -- if you start thinking about an exit of the business there are also certain deferred intercompany gains that would be triggered as a result of the historical transfer of these assets out of the utilities.
So there are a number of things that I would say make it difficult to get one's arms around what a potential tax loss would be associated with an exit of the business.
The other thing Julien is I think the -- as you go through time that tax basis and the assets change.
So depending upon the timing of an exit the form of an exit whether it be sale of the assets sale of the equity or restructuring all of those things could result in different tax answers in terms of the potential tax loss.
So we're certainly hesitant to try to put a precise value on that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Another quick GENCO follow-up here.
Noticed recently PJM's website seems to suggest that you've been successful in transacting on power and capacity.
I'd be curious just to get a holistic sense how much are you able to transact into PJM off of your portfolio? Yes.
So Julien with respect to the merchant segment they have about 117 megawatts of approved transmission from MISO into PJM for the planning years 2012 2013 and beyond.
They've also been able to get an additional 530 megawatts of approved transmission from MISO into PJM starting in 2015.
And so that's been approved and there are also some other requests in the queue.
But that's what's been approved at this point.
Research Division</strong> So when we're thinking about modeling GENCO for the 2015 '16 auction year we should expect you to be able to clear at least in some of these incrementals? Is that the way to think about it? Yes.
That would be -- think about it although you used the term GENCO.
And I don't have the breakdown but I think this -- I'm pretty sure that this transmission is unit-specific.
And so some of it relates to AERG and some of it relates to GENCO.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Fantastic.
And just a quick quick follow-up on the put option.
Under what scenarios -- if you can refresh our memories when would you execute it? How do you think about executing it just given the developments? Yes.
So the execution of -- or the put option is really a GENCO decision a GENCO board management decision.
The put option expires March 31 of 2014.
As we said on the call we do not expect that Ameren and AERG would extend that put option beyond its current date but it does go through the end of March of 2014.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask on the regulated side of the house.
Just -- can you talk a little bit about transmission investment both at Ameren Illinois and at ATXI just in terms of which one might be more front-end loaded which one might be more back-end loaded? If I look just at Slide 20 your transmission CapEx roughly -- I think it's $340 million for 2013.
It almost implies that both are pretty back-end loaded but would love your comments.
Yes.
No Michael.
I appreciate the question.
On Slide 20 though and as you look to Slide 21 in terms of the rate base growth I think overall the CapEx investment at the Ameren Illinois utilities I wouldn't say is really front-end loaded but as we've talked before is more ratable over that 5-year period.
And -- whereas the ATXI transmission investment does become more back-end loaded.
So it starts a little bit slower particularly in 2013.
But by the time you get to 2014 2015 it starts to ramp up but gets to more peak levels out in the 2016 2017 time frame.
But again the Ameren Illinois transmission spending is expected to be more ratable over that period of time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on Ameren Illinois the distribution side I want to make sure I understand.
In your guidance are you assuming you earn on a year end rate base and not the weighted average rate base? And I know that's been a little bit of a disputed point between companies there and the commission and the legislature.
Just trying to make sure I understand what's in guidance versus what you think the regulation and the legislation supposes currently? Yes.
No Michael it's a good observation.
You're right.
We have baked in the year end rate base so we are operating with the expectation that the legislation as we understand it should work -- will work that way in 2013.
So we have reflected in there the year end rate base.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last item on the non-regulated side.
I noticed you didn't provide hedging detail.
I didn't provide hedging details.
I mean given our intent to exit that business I thought that providing those disclosures with long -- basically get to longer-term earnings and cash flow drivers were less relevant and wanted to focus more on the exit.
That said Michael all of the data that traditionally we've provided in those slides will be provided in the 10-K.
So you'll certainly have access to that information.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Senchak with Decade Capital.
Just a couple of questions.
Do you expect the level of the parent long-term debt to grow over the next couple of years? In other words will you be issuing any parent long-term debt? We would expect Scott that over -- if you look at where our investments are being made over time really being made at the regulated utilities and therefore would expect consistent with past practice that those investments would be financed at those regulated utility subsidiaries.
And the parent currently does have some debt I think.
In your '13 guidance where is that interest expense allocated? In the 2013 guidance consistent with past practice the interest expense is allocated to the merchant and other.
Okay.
Got you.
And is there an overall equity ratio that we should think about going forward to keep the overall business? And I noticed you mentioned the utilities are going to be 50% to 53%.
But just wondering as we model this to find out what should we do for the overall company? Yes.
Overall as well we talked about over time at about that 50-50 kind of level.
I think as you probably saw in the stats that were attached to the press release I think after the impairment charge we stand right around 49% and we'd expect to be right around that 50-50 over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe DeSapri with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the thought process or considerations around pursuing the Illinois variance at GENCO? And then soon thereafter deciding that the business still isn't economic despite receiving a desired variance outcome kind of what sort of changed there? Well I'm not sure that anything really changed there.
When you look back at the reason for pursuing the variance certainly the power prices are very low.
The financial situation and condition with respect to GENCO and the merchant business suggested that a variance was really needed that financially we're just really unable to put money forward to complete the scrubber in the near term.
And of course we've provided I think a proposal that was overall environmentally beneficial in putting that forward.
I think what transpired is -- or what's happened is that -- is simply a continuation of the same situation that financial -- excuse me the power markets continued to be very difficult.
We saw over the course of 2012 not only a decline in near-term power prices but also a flattening of the forward curve and -- which make the outlook for the business even more challenging.
So I wouldn't really say any difference.
I would say it's just both a reflection of the same difficult conditions.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up.
Will those -- will that benefit of that variance allowance could that potentially transfer to a new potential owner if the assets were sold? Yes.
That's a variance that is -- variance was granted to Ameren Energy Resources.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Jenkins with the State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
First of all I was wondering if you could give a little more clarity regarding 2013 debt financing plans.
You mentioned you don't expect any equity issuance and that you're going to have negative free cash flow.
So if you could just give us a sense of -- besides the debt issuance I know you have $350 million that matures late in the year -- but just overall? Sure Dan.
I think -- yes you're on the right track there obviously.
We have a $200 million maturity in Missouri in July and a $150 million maturity in Illinois later in the year in December.
As we think about it -- so I think those would be likely potential candidates for refinancing.
As I mentioned earlier on the call at year end we also -- Ameren-wide had about $200 million of cash on hand and no credit facility borrowings.
As we go into next year we do expect that we are going to have these negative free cash flows at the utility businesses.
So we'll we thinking about Dan the $200 million maturity in July at Missouri.
But we'll be taking a look at what cash they have on hand as well as what happens between now and July in terms of capital expenditures and free cash flows and then making the determination about the timing and the size of a debt offering with respect to Missouri.
And similar in Illinois we are investing in Illinois both in the distribution business as well as in the transmission infrastructure expecting to have negative free cash flows there.
And again we'll be taking a look at that as well as in conjunction with that $150 million maturity and assessing again the timing and size of a debt offering there.
But you're on the right track in thinking about those maturities coupled with the negative free cash flows associated with those businesses.
Our next question comes from the line of Terran Miller with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Just in terms of the generation business I know you said that the timing is uncertain.
But would you be disappointed if we got to year end 2013 and this had not been resolved? Terran this is Marty.
No I wouldn't say disappointed if we got to the end of 2013 and it wasn't resolved.
I think -- as I said before we're going to do what we believe is in the greatest overall benefit for Ameren and we're certainly looking to approach this exit in whatever form it takes in an orderly fashion.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the variance question.
The variance was granted to I believe Ameren Energy Resources.
If that portfolio is split what happens to the benefits and the variances i.e.
if Gen files or is -- if it has to go to one buyer and the other assets go to another.
Yes Terran.
I know it's a legal question that I guess I'm not really prepared to speak to at the moment.
I'm not sure whether each entity would individually need to comply with the emissions limitations of the variance or whether there'd be a requirement to go back to the Pollution Control Board.
So I wouldn't want to speculate at this point on how that might have to be handled.
Our next question comes from the line of Phillip Pennell with Mariner Investment Group.
Just a quick one going back to the interconnect question with regard to PJM and MISO.
I know that there is some going back and forth right now between the 2 ISOs and I was wondering -- you have any comments in terms of how you expect that to work out? And obviously with -- I believe it's Elgin as the only plant that's got any capacity payments that it's receiving now through PJM and you mentioned that it was going up to like 500 megawatts or whatever in 2015.
Are the other gas plants that are currently in the area going to receive any of that as potential capacity payments? Yes.
Let me see if I can expand a little bit.
First of all Elgin is actually in PJM and so it is receiving capacity payments.
But that would be in addition to what I noted earlier on the call the 117 megawatts of approved transmission from MISO into PJM for 2012 2013 is incremental to Elgin as is the $530 million of approved transmission starting in 2015.
And again I believe that that transmission that's been approved from MISO into PJM is power plant unit specific.
And I don't recall whether the other gas-fired units actually would benefit from that transmission those transmission paths.
The megawatt of -- the megawatts I just talked about in terms of approved transmission is really obtained through sort of normal processes of working with PJM to get that transmission into -- from MISO into PJM.
So it's sort of just part of normal processes that we've been working through.
In terms of the broader discussions between PJM and MISO we're certainly hopeful that we can get to a point where we have more complete capacity portability between MISO and PJM and -- but when and how those discussions may come to that end is difficult to predict.
We're certainly hopeful that the conversations will be fruitful and substantial progress can be made in 2013.
Okay.
I mean obviously what PJM came back with last was not constructive.
But I guess we'll just have to wait and see.
Finally you mentioned that moving forward with the unregulated business spin off or restructuring or whatever happens would be done within the context of your legal responsibilities.
What are you referring to with regard to your legal responsibilities? Certainly as we think about the exit from the merchant business we're certainly mindful of not only our fiduciary duties to the Ameren shareholders but also obligations that we have to the noteholders at GENCO.
And that's what we meant by that.
All right.
With that I think we're going to end since our time has expired.
This is Doug Fischer.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for 1 year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on our press release.
The financial analyst inquiry should be directed to me Doug Fischer or to Matt Thayer my associate.
Media should call Brian Bretsch.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a good day.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of IR for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors Section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives conditions events and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors section in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of first quarter 2013 results and our 2013 earnings guidance followed by an update on recent business developments.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of first quarter 2013 financial results and financial and other matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Now here's Tom who will start on Page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced first quarter 2013 net income from continuing operations of $0.22 per share compared to first quarter 2012 net income from continuing operations of $0.15 per share.
First quarter earnings from our rate-regulated utilities were in line with our expectations.
Reflecting our March agreement to divest our merchant generation business to an affiliate of Dynegy the results of this business are now classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements.
The increase in first quarter 2013 earnings from continuing operations compared to first quarter 2012 reflected improved earnings from Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois.
Colder winter weather which drove higher electric and natural gas sales lines and new rates for Ameren Missouri electric and Ameren Illinois transmission service both effective in January 2013 were key drivers of the earnings improvement.
The comparison also benefited from the absence in 2013 of a required donation that was made in 2012 associated with the implementation of formula-based electric delivery rates in Illinois that year.
These favorable factors were partially offset by a reduction in weather normalized revenues recognized in this year's first quarter by Ameren Illinois under electric delivery formula ratemaking.
In addition nonfuel operations and maintenance expenses were higher at Ameren Missouri.
Marty will provide more details on our earnings in a few minutes.
Moving to Page 4.
Today we also established 2013 earnings guidance for continuing operations in the range of $2 to $2.20 per share.
The presentation of guidance on a continuing operations basis reflects the classification of the merchant generation business as discontinued operations in the first quarter.
Also this guidance incorporates approximately $0.20 per share of parent company and other costs including certain costs that were previously allocated to the merchant generation business.
We expect to reduce these parent company and other costs to $0.10 to $0.15 per share in 2014 and to reduce them even further in 2015.
This is expected to be achieved by refinancing the $425 million of parent company senior notes due in May 2014 and rationalizing operating costs that were previously allocated to the merchant generation business.
Turning to Page 5.
The most significant first quarter development was the March agreement to divest the merchant generation business to an affiliate of Dynegy.
We believe this transaction clarifies our strategic direction and value proposition to investors.
It allows Ameren to focus exclusively on its rate-regulated electric natural gas and transmission businesses.
The divestiture reduces Ameren Corporation's business risk and is expected to substantially improve the predictably of future earnings and cash flows.
These factors support our ongoing efforts to grow our earnings base and provide a solid sustainable dividend.
The transaction removes $825 million of Genco's senior notes from Ameren's consolidated balance sheet.
Also it will result in an estimated $180 million at present value of deferred tax assets which are expected to be substantially realized in 2015.
These tax benefits more than offset the cash requirements associated with the transaction.
As a result the rating agencies have stated that the merchant generation divestiture is credit positive for Ameren.
In fact Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded Ameren Corporation's rating to BBB shortly after the announcement of the transaction.
We're working diligently with Dynegy to complete this transaction.
In April we filed a request for the approval of divestiture with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
And today we plan to file with the Illinois Pollution Control Board for the required transfer to Dynegy of the variance related to the Illinois Multi-Pollutant Standard that we were granted in 2012.
We continue to anticipate closing the transaction in the fourth quarter of this year.
In addition we have hired an investment bank to assist us in the sale of the 3 gas-fired energy centers that we retained with the exercise of the Genco put option and we have begun marketing these assets.
We expect to complete the sale of these plants to a third-party by year end subject to separate approval by the FERC.
Moving to Page 6.
In addition to posting solid first quarter earnings from continuing operations and advancing the pending divesture of our merchant generation business we're also making progress on our plans to invest substantial additional capital in FERC-regulated electric transmission projects.
These projects will benefit customers through a more reliable and efficient electric system.
Constructive forward-looking formula ratemaking that is in place with these projects provides a reasonable opportunity for us to earn fair returns on our investments and recover our costs on a timely manner.
We plan to invest a total of approximately $2.2 billion in these FERC-regulated transmission projects over the 5-year period ending in 2017.
Our single largest planned transmission investment is the Illinois Rivers project.
This approximate $1.1 billion MISO-approved regional multi-value project involves the construction of a new high-voltage transmission line across the state of Illinois.
It will enhance electric system reliability and create new construction jobs in the state.
Our request for a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for the approximate 400 mile transmission line is pending at the ICC.
In late March the ICC staff filed initial testimony in response to this request and we are pleased that the ICC staff recommended a certificate be granted for the project subject to certain further considerations.
We filed testimony last Friday to address the remaining concerns of the ICC staff.
Hearings are scheduled for May 13 through May 17 with an ICC decision expected by August 20 of this year.
Upon receipt of the certificate from the ICC we will begin to acquire rights of way for the transmission line with the full range of construction activities expected to begin in 2014.
Turning now to Page 7.
We also continue to pursue enhancements to the state regulatory frameworks for our utilities in both Missouri and Illinois.
We are focused on improving our ability to invest in our utilities and states for the benefit of customers communities and investors.
Turning first to Missouri.
We along with every other investor-owned electric utility in the state strongly support the Infrastructure Strengthening and Regulatory Streamlining Act commonly referred to as electric ISRS which is currently pending in the Missouri General assembly.
It is largely fashioned after the infrastructure recovery statute that has been utilized by the water and gas utilities in the state for nearly a decade.
This proposed legislation is intended to modernize the Missouri electric regulatory framework by providing for a more timely recovery of investments that are in place and serving customers between rate cases.
Further it will enable us to make important incremental investments in our aging infrastructure to meet our customers' future energy needs and expectations as well as create well-paying jobs.
If enacted this legislation would streamline regulation as well as enhance many of the consumer protections in the current water and gas infrastructure laws which already include very strong oversight by the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Late last evening the Missouri Senate debated the electric ISRS legislation.
A final vote was not taken on the bill.
We will continue to work with legislative leaders and other key stakeholders to see if we can move this legislation forward.
Having said that consumer advocates and certain industrial customers are opposing this effort to modernize Missouri utility regulation.
However we consider such opposition to be rooted in a very shortsighted approach to state energy policy and we continue to aggressively communicate why enacting this legislation will be good for our customers and the state of Missouri.
The time for Senate and House action is limited since the Missouri legislative session ends on May 17.
We will continue to work tirelessly to pursue this important legislation for the state of Missouri.
Turning to Page 8 in Illinois.
In 2011 the Illinois General Assembly enacted the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
This act was intended to spur a decade of investment in electric delivery reliability improved customer service and job creation.
Last year Ameren Illinois began selecting infrastructure projects and opened a Smart Grid training facility in Belleville Illinois.
The ICC also approved our Advanced Metering Infrastructure initiative.
We continue to maintain that formula ratemaking can be constructive if properly applied.
However in our view the ICC misapplied the act in our 2012 electric delivery formula rate orders.
Therefore we strongly support Senate Bill 9 a legislative solution that clarifies application of the act regarding rate while maintaining strong consumer protections.
Senate Bill 9 makes clear that year end not average rate base and weighted average cost of capital not a short-term interest rate should be used in electric delivery formula ratemaking.
And we're pleased that the Illinois General assembly has overwhelmingly confirmed their legislative intent and approved this legislation.
The bill is now on Governor Quinn's desk and he must act on it by May 20.
As part of a two-pronged approach to ensure that the goals of the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act are realized Ameren Illinois has also appealed the 2012 electric rate orders to state appellate court.
In addition we support Illinois legislative efforts to enhance the ratemaking framework for gas delivery service.
This too would allow us to accelerate infrastructure investment deliver improved customer service and create jobs.
Turning to Page 9.
I would like to close my prepared remarks with a summary of our planned investment in our rate-regulated utilities for the benefit of our customers communities and investors.
This is reflected in our regulated capital investment plans which translates into expected rate base growth of approximately 7% annually from 2013 to 2017.
With this growth most rapid and regulatory jurisdictions with constructive formula ratemaking we are moving forward on a path that will enhance our ability to earn fair returns on a growing level of utility investment.
I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Page 10 of the presentation.
Today we reported a first quarter 2013 net loss combining results from both continuing and discontinued operations of $0.60 per share compared to first quarter 2012 net loss of $1.66 per share.
The first quarter 2013 net loss included a loss of $0.82 per share from discontinued operations incorporating an impairment charge to write-down the merchant generation business to its estimated fair value based upon the terms of the divestiture and other exit related after-tax charges.
These after-tax charges were $195 million or $0.80 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
Those charges will be reviewed as we move through 2013 with adjustments recorded in our financial statements as needed.
We currently expect that the total after-tax charges will be less than the approximately $300 million we estimated when we announced the divestiture.
As Tom previously discussed Ameren recorded first quarter 2013 earnings from continuing operations of $0.22 per share compared with first quarter 2012 earnings of $0.15 per share.
On Page 11 we list the key factors that drove the $0.07 per share improvement in earnings.
Factors favorably impacting first quarter 2013 earnings compared to those of the first quarter of 2012 included a return to normal winter weather compared to much warmer than normal weather in the first quarter of 2012.
This boosted electric and natural gas sales lifting earnings by an estimated $0.10 per share and has estimated $0.07 in Missouri and $0.03 in Illinois.
In addition new rates from Missouri electric and Illinois transmission service increased earnings by $0.05 per share.
And the absence in 2013 of a required nonrecoverable donation made in 2012 associated with the implementation of Illinois formula ratemaking for energy delivery service boosted earnings by $0.02 per share.
These positive factors were partially offset by reduced first quarter 2013 weather normalized Illinois electric delivery revenues which lowered earnings by $0.08 per share compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Reduced revenues are the result of variation in the timing and amount of expected full year recoverable costs between this year's first quarter and the year-ago period.
We expect this variation to result in lower weather normalized earnings in the second quarter of 2013 and higher earnings in the third and fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the same periods in 2012.
For the full year 2013 we expect weather normalized Illinois electric delivery earnings to increase compared to 2012 primarily reflecting increased investment for the benefit of our customers.
Finally higher operations and maintenance expenses at Ameren Missouri reduced first quarter 2013 earnings by $0.03 per share net of certain rate recoveries compared to the first quarter of 2012.
These higher expenses were primarily due to start up expenses related to the second quarter 2013 Callaway Nuclear Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage and higher storm-related costs.
Turning now to Page 12.
I want to remind everyone that second quarter 2013 comparative results will be impacted by a few significant items.
The first of these will be the second quarter 2013 expenses for the just mentioned Callaway Nuclear Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage which began in April.
These expenses are estimated to be approximately $0.10 per share.
There was no Callaway refueling outage in 2012.
The second item is a favorable 2012 FERC order related to a disputed Missouri power purchase agreement that expired in 2009.
That order resulted in a nonrecurring gain of $0.07 per share in the second quarter of last year.
Finally as previously discussed variation in the timing of revenue recognition for Ameren Illinois' electric delivery service is expected to result in a decline in weather normalized earnings in the second quarter of 2013 compared to second quarter of 2012 though again the full year comparison is expected to be positive.
One other item is worth mentioning we expect the Missouri Court of Appeals to issue a decision this year possibly in the second quarter in its review of the Missouri Public Service Commission fuel adjustment clause order issued for Ameren Missouri in 2011.
This court decision may impact comparative second quarter 2013 financial results.
However we believe potential financial impacts are accommodated by our earnings guidance range.
Turning then to Page 13.
We move from earnings to a discussion of our updated 2013 free cash flow guidance.
We calculate free cash flow by starting with our net cash provided by operating activities and subtracting from it our capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and advances received for construction.
For 2013 we now anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $500 million compared to our February 2013 guidance of a negative $435 million.
The updated estimate also includes merchant divestiture-related cash outflows of approximately $100 million including the $25 million of cash that is currently held at Genco.
These divestiture-related cash outflows are more than offset by expected transaction-related cash tax benefits of approximately $180 million in present value to be substantially realized in 2015.
Finally on Page 14 of our presentation I will conclude my prepared remarks by summarizing key year-to-date accomplishments.
In our view first quarter financial results from continuing operations were solid with utility results in line with our expectations.
Operating performance and service to customers has remained strong.
We announced the divestiture of the merchant generation business to Dynegy and have begun taking the regulatory steps needed to close this transaction in the fourth quarter of this year.
The divestiture will allow us to focus exclusively on our rate-regulated utilities and is expected to improve the predictability of our future earnings and cash flows.
Our rate-regulated utility investment plans provide the foundation for growing our rate base at a compound annual rate of approximately 7% over the 5-year period ending in 2017 and Ameren's $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate is well covered by expected 2013 earnings from continuing operations and provides investors with a very attractive current yield of approximately 4.5%.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Sort of to the Missouri legislation I mean given that we got the May 17 deadline sort of showing up here and sort of the lack of movement over the last several weeks how should we think about the potential for its passage? And if it doesn't pass given the substantial amount of CapEx and rate-base growth that you guys have how should we think about your ability to manage regulatory lag if -- in its absence? Sure.
Paul this is Marty.
I think I'll let Warner Baxter who's here with us President of Missouri Operations.
Go ahead and answer that question.
So a couple of things.
First your first question is related to the prospects for the passage of legislation.
And you're right.
And certainly as we sit here today it's difficult to predict really whether the legislation be passed at this time.
And as we've talked about in the past it's always a challenge to try and pass legislation.
And certainly with only 2 weeks left in the legislative session and that challenge is going to be greater especially in light of the continued opposition from certain consumer groups and certain large customers.
But having said that our team is going to continue to work closely with legislative leaders and other key stakeholders to see if we can move this legislation forward.
And should we not get that legislation passed this session we will continue to work tirelessly to get constructive legislation passed in the future to address as you said some of the additional capital expenditures that we may be making in the future and to address regulatory lag in Missouri.
And the bottom line we think this legislation and this path represents good long-term energy policy for Missouri and it's going to help us address the aging infrastructure and certainly meet our customers' long-term needs and expectations.
And the legislation we had before the legislature today certainly has robust consumer protections.
So we're going to continue to advocate for that policy because we think it's simply the right thing to do.
Now with regard to the questions in terms of how we handle regulatory lag.
We're going to continue to do what we've done in the past and that we're going to continue to be very disciplined in our cost control and how we allocate capital in our business and certainly among all the Ameren businesses.
And we're going to do what we've done also in the past and that's aligning our spend with the regulatory policies outcomes and economic conditions.
When the need arises we will continue to file frequent rate cases to recover those investments.
And as I said before we're going to continue to pursue changes in the regulatory framework that will support investment because we are convinced that is the absolute best policy for the state of Missouri in the future.
Okay I hear you.
But just in general I guess there is a lot of opposition and I mean in the absence of a change in regulatory policy should we be thinking about sort of a ROE lag as we go forward if there is no improvement or -- I mean I'm sure you guys are working hard or whatever but just in general I mean how -- if you could just -- I don't know if you can address that or not but just how should we think about that? And then just also sort of related SB 9 sailed through the legislature in Illinois very very well but the gas stuff the gas legislation seems to be sort of held up.
I was just wondering if you could compare and contrast that.
Paul this is Marty.
I'll maybe try to tack on to what Warner said.
I think as you look at what we've been able to accomplish over the past number of years in terms of Missouri regulation and Missouri earnings certainly over a series of rate cases we've been able to achieve use of various riders and trackers for fuel or for energy efficiency or things of that nature which have provided us a better opportunity to earn our allowed returns and we have meaningfully closed the gap between earned and allowed returns.
Clearly in the absence of some better framework for capital investment it's hard to be able to earn those alloweds on a regular basis if you're deploying significant amounts of capital.
When you look overall at our plan going forward and you look at our 7% rate base growth plans across the enterprise a heavy focus on those jurisdictions with formulaic ratemaking with the kinds of frameworks that allow us to make the investment for the benefit of our customers to grow jobs and to grow that rate base.
If you look at the trends we put out in the past while we're investing still -- planning to still invest substantially in Missouri the growth is at a much lower pace again providing ourselves the opportunity to earn something closer to our alloweds.
And again as Warner said making sure that we continue to control our spending in order to position ourselves for success there.
Now transitioning over to Illinois you're right the formulae -- the changes or the modifications to the formulaic rates for electrics did pass both chambers with very strong majority of votes there and that's now before the governor.
And then as it relates to the gas legislation things have -- I'd say stalled a little bit there.
I think legislative interest has moved somewhat away from the gas formula ratemaking and is focusing maybe on something more like an infrastructure rider or something of that nature.
May I remind you that with respect to gas in Illinois we do have the use of 4 test years.
We've got a gas rate case pending right now and incorporates those 4 test years and it's where things kind of stand in Illinois.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I understand this week that the Missouri legislation actually hit a little bit of a speed bump.
Just curious are there specific concerns the industrial customers have and is there ways the legislation could be tailored to alleviate some of these concerns? Michael this is Warner again.
The bill was debated last evening as Tom said and they ultimately did come to a vote.
Certainly there've been concerns cited by some of the industrial customers in terms of impact on rates and those types of things.
And there have been efforts made to try and address that in the legislative -- in the legislation and we will continue to have those discussions with those customers and other stakeholders to see if we can get something across the finish line.
So we're going to continue to push to see if we can get something constructive done during these last 2 weeks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And turning to Illinois assuming that SB 9 is eventually made into law and assuming the litigation around the prior rate case kind of turns in your favor and upholds the law passed in 2011 is there still any remaining structural lag that exists for your Illinois distribution businesses? Meaning are there are still some level of costs that simply aren't recoverable in rates? And if so could you kind of quantify that level.
Lots of state commissions don't allow things like incentive compensation or regional or local marketing costs donations that type of thing.
Just trying to think about kind of what are the remaining drivers of lag if any once the whole legislative and litigation process plays out and assuming it plays out in your favor? Sure Michael.
Thanks.
There are some of those costs.
And if you look back to our slides from our year-end call we did outline some of those sort of structural things if you will that were there.
When the law was passed in Illinois while it did provide for formulaic ratemaking for the vast majority of costs that are incurred.
Historical ICC ratemaking adjustments were preserved by that legislation.
So we outlined some of those nonrecoverable costs.
I think it was on Slide 13 of our year-end slide.
Some of those nonrecoverable costs did include about $8 million of historical ratemaking adjustments.
Those are the kinds of things that would be impactful going forward.
This year we identified some other things like $7 million of certain electrical system rework costs.
Those we expect to be -- they've occurred over a couple of years last year and this year but we do expect those to diminish and to go away.
So there are a little bit of things that continue to be there and then we have the opportunity and we'll continue to focus on those costs and make efforts to control and reduce those to the extent possible.
But for the most part Michael the costs we incur in serving our customers improving our service and reliability are recovered through the formulaic process.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a broader transmission question.
We've seen in some regions of the country in New England and Colorado and California intervenors come in and file at the FERC to dramatically lower the base ROE in some of the RTOs.
We haven't seen that type of Section 205 or --- I think it's 206 litigation yet in the MISO or in the SPP I don't think.
But just curious if it did play out and if you saw lower authorized base ROEs for transmission how would that impact your views in terms of dedicating as much capital as you're planning to interstate transmission projects? Sure Michael.
You're right in terms of we haven't seen that type of push here.
I think as you know our FERC-authorized ROEs aren't really incentive ROEs like you might see in some jurisdictions.
But to your question I mean to the extent that the ratemaking treatment or the ROEs were changed it detracts from the incentive that exists today in investing in these large regional projects.
They are significant amounts of capital deployment.
They do like -- do have risks associated with them.
We believe that the ROEs that we've got are appropriate.
And to the extent that ROEs were reduced it certainly would affect ours and I think other companies' thought process is about the investment opportunity.
Whether they were abandoned or not I certainly won't speculate.
I'm just saying that it certainly becomes less attractive and there is less incentive there to take on these big projects.
Our next question comes from David Paz with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I just have a question on the utility guidance or I guess overall guidance.
But it seems that the midpoint of your guidance $2 to $2.20 reflects a utility midpoint of $2.30.
Is that fair? Yes.
I think that is fair.
The -- when we provided the guidance which is now guidance from continuing operations of $2 to $2.20 we also mentioned that we expected for the full year parent and other costs of about $0.20.
And so that would -- if you do the math as you've done that would imply for the regular utilities about $2.30.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just I guess what's driving that $0.05 increase in utility side? Well I think overall as we go through the year we've certainly seen -- I'll comment on a few things since you've opened the door on guidance which I appreciate.
First on the -- I'll talk about maybe about the parent and other of about $0.20 that we see there.
What's driving that is that -- as you go through sort of the accounting for continuing operations or discontinued operations you've got to take costs that maybe were previously allocated to the merchant business.
And to the extent that those aren't naturally going away with the business you're disposing of you would continue to classify those in continuing operations.
So some of the things driving that $0.20 are interest on the parent company that of about $425 million of parent company that -- which is about $0.10 of interest or so and then there is G&amp;A cost previously allocated to that merchant business that will be retained.
For the time being once the segment the divestiture is actually completed we'd certainly have the opportunity then to reduce and drive some of those costs out.
And then there are other just sort of parent company costs that have existed through time that are in that $0.20.
Then overall with respect to utility results for the first quarter as we talked about a lot of the improvement of last year was really driven by weather.
We saw about a $0.10 improvement from weather overall.
But when you strip out the weather and you look at weather normalized sales overall those were positive during the quarter.
Overall we saw residential and commercial sales up about 2% on a weather normalized basis across the company.
And that was a positive sign and a little ahead of our expectations.
We were expecting sort of little growth this year.
We haven't really modified our expectations for the remainder of the year.
We still expect little growth for the remainder of the year but the quarter was a positive from that perspective.
The sales versus normal I mean -- meaning weather versus normalized I should say was a neutral.
We didn't see much impact from weather versus normal conditions.
So -- but we did see on the weather-normalized basis a bit of a pickup.
And we would also expect to see for the remainder of the year some positive variances versus expectation in O&amp;M and we're also -- they are also expecting to see some positives from further infrastructure investment rate base growth in those areas where we have the formula ratemaking.
So those are some of the drivers on the regulated side.
I'd say that those -- we give the $2 to $2.20 guidance.
It's $0.20 range.
That parent company and other $0.20 is an approximation.
I'd say probably there's a little bit of a rounding up there.
And so therefore you derive $2.30.
I'd say there would be a little bit of a rounding up there too in terms of the regulated midpoint.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just so I heard right you said weather-adjusted -- weather-normalized sales were up 2% residential? Yes residential and commercial combined across the company.
And we were pleased to see it.
We saw a little bit of a positive growth in the same categories in the fourth quarter of last year though you may recall I think others do in the third quarter last year they were down.
So weather normalization is an approximation.
And when we looked over the course of last year we had some ups and downs during the quarters over the course of the year.
We actually saw residential and commercial sales down a little bit versus 2011 levels.
So we're happy to see this trend.
It's good to have this starting out the year a little bit of a positive trend but we'll -- I think we've still got a cautious view for the remainder of the year.
LLC</strong> Got it.
I appreciate walking -- you walking me through those steps.
Just one  quick question on the dividend.
What is the way we should look at dividend growth going forward from here? Yes.
We've talked in the past about payout targets in the 55% to 70% of regulated earnings range.
And we've given out specific guidance on when to expect increases going forward other than to say that we do have the 7% growth rate planned in rate base.
With that we would expect to grow our regulated earnings over time.
And as we grow those regulated earnings we would expect also to be in a position to be able to recommend to the board increases in the dividend.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that 55% to 70% is regulated earnings excluding the $0.20 or whatever that ultimately becomes of parent drag? Yes.
I think that's a fair way to think about it.
Our next question comes from Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kind of following up on the last one actually.
So you talk about $0.20 this year.
You've talked about that abating somewhat.
How much of that is due to the interest expense refi-ing in '14 and I suppose midyear and onwards.
And how much of this is fundamentally just being able to reduce the G&amp;A over time with the merchant gen segment out of the way now? Sure.
A good question.
So the $0.20 as I broke it down was probably about -- the $0.20 probably about $0.10 of interest and then $0.10 of G&amp;A previously allocated to the merchant business as well as some corporate overhead cost that we've had historically.
So when you think about that parent company debt as you know $425 million of debt 8.875 percentage or straight [ph].
In today's market we'd be able to reduce that substantially I think better than -- cutting that better than 50% Julien maybe even by 2/3.
So on an annualized basis decreasing that $0.10 by $0.06 or so wouldn't be unrealistic on an annualized basis.
You're right.
The refi for that would be a May time frame of next year.
And then with respect to some of these other costs like the G&amp;A costs that are in the parent company number this year that historically have been allocated to the merchant business that's probably about $0.06 over the remainder of this year.
And we certainly can't reduce or eliminate those costs until the divestiture is completed.
But then we we'd expect to be able to reduce those through time.
We talked a couple of calls ago about the expectation that we believe we could eventually eliminate those fully.
That may take through the end of '15 to be able to get there when they're fully gone.
But we would expect to be able to begin to reduce those substantially next year.
And so what we've said is we expect that $0.20 this year to go down to a range of $0.10 to $0.15 next year.
And then those would -- those costs would further diminish the year after that as you get the full year benefit of the refinanced parent company debt and you fully reduce the drag from those G&amp;A costs previously allocated to the merchant business.
Research Division</strong> So if I hear you're right call it a run rate around '15 time frame $0.20 minus $0.06 with interest expense at least minus another $0.06 once you fully eliminate the allocated cost so less than $0.10 easily.
Yes less than a $0.10 is what I'm getting as well.
Research Division</strong> All right fantastic.
And then going over to the ATX side of the world perhaps a little bit similar to the last question.
When you're thinking about your successes on developments what are the next important data points? And as you think about it how do you feel about the execution on the -- just deploying capital if you will? And maybe a secondary question off that also looking at CapEx how would EIMA change your CapEx outlook too? Your EIMA yes.
Yes.
I think I missed the first part of your question.
What was the base part of your question? Research Division</strong> Well the base part was more ATX how do you feel about deployment what are the next key milestones in terms of it? I mean it seems like there have been some developments in the quarter.
Yes no there would so -- in terms of outline there have been good development.
So certainly filed for the ICC Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity as it relates to the Illinois Rivers project which is sort of a big centerpiece multi-value project that we've got planned over the next several years $1.1-billion project.
As we updated the staff filed some initial testimony.
Overall we saw it as positive where the staff overall was recommending that the ICC grant a certificate for the project.
We've recently as you know probably filed rebuttal.
For the upcoming dates there our ICC hearing is in the May time frame.
And we're still expecting an order.
And we're optimistic that we'll see the -- get the ICC certificate and be able to move forward then late this year with the right-of-way acquisition and next year with that full-range construction activities.
So we're anxious to begin deploying capital relative to that project.
We feel like the testimony we provided in response to ICC and others' testimony we hope was responsive.
And we hope to see the ICC approval and begin to move forward.
So there is -- those are some of the key milestones.
Certainly those -- the expectation of being able to move forward with that project on sort of the time frame I just outlined is really key to the overall plans we have to grow rate base at that 7% rate that we talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then EIMA just I'm curious like how much CapEx upside are we talking there? Well there -- what we did we really -- if you look at our CapEx plans we didn't substantially change those as a result of the ICC order the last year.
We eliminated about $30 million of the planned capital spending for this year but didn't really substantially change the plans that we have longer term.
We're certainly optimistic that we will see the appropriate modifications made to the legislation to provide the clarity about the legislative intent.
And at that point we'd be in a position to add back that $30 million of reduced capital spending to our forecast.
Our next question caller is from Ashar Khan with Visium.
I think most of my questions have been answered.
Warner I just wanted to -- just going back to the legislation we know that end date of the thing.
But what is like -- right it has to first get passed from the Senate then go to the House? And if I'm right is the bill in the House the same right now? Or does it have to go to a committee? Can you just walk us through what the path could be for approval? How does it go from one to the other and then get approved? Sure sure Ashar.
This is Warner.
One there are several vehicles that are still available in both the House and the Senate.
You have your original bills which are HB 398 House Bill 398 and then Senate Bill 207.
If those bills would be approved they would have to go through committees on either side of the House to move forward.
And so a likely path to move forward now between now and May 17 would be to amend and approve Senate or House Bill.
Once -- so say a House Bill is on the Senate side and that has been amended by the Senate and sent back over to the House then simply the House can take that bill and vote it up or down.
It does not have to go through all the committee process.
And indeed that's certainly an approach that's being considered in both the Senate and the House right now.
So is it possible to get something done in the next 2 weeks utilizing those vehicles? The answer is yes.
But as we said before you have 2 weeks.
And that still takes time to get through some of the processes.
But it isn't as extensive as the original bill process we have today.
Okay.
But just practically thinking we have to see say some movement by the 12th or 13th of May.
Is that a good point because it has to pass the Senate? Or can it all be done on 1 day the last day? Well Ashar the only thing I've seen in Missouri politics and the legislature it is pretty amazing how things can get done in the last few days.
Having said that the more time you have to move things the better you are.
And certainly every day is precious when it gets down to the last 2 weeks.
So I can't say there is a specific cutoff date one way or the other but there are hosts of -- there are vehicles.
But just because there are vehicles doesn't mean that there still aren't some challenges to get through both sides of either the House or the Senate.
Our next question comes from Neil Kalton with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question -- a follow-on on ATX and the CPCN process.
First question is could you elaborate a bit on the staff position what that kind of came back with it? And how you responded to it? What were the concerns? And the second question and separate from this is I believe you're pursuing a couple of other meaningful projects with ATX in Illinois.
And I want to know how you think about the likelihood and timing of these projects? What do we need to see happen to sort of push these into being -- happening? Would it be low growth coal unit retirements et cetera? Sure Neil.
This is Marty again and -- one thing I'd refer you to overall what I thought was a good piece of testimony is the president of our transmission company Maureen Borkowski and the testimony that we filed recently in response to the ICC to interveners in the case.
But Maureen's testimony I think provided sort of an overview of the issues that have been raised or concerns that have been raised and the overall ATXI response to those.
And she summarized well I think both the concerns as well as the comments that we were providing back.
And I think Neil overall in my view the interveners I mentioned earlier the staff in particular overall recommended that the ICC go ahead and provide the certificate.
But there were questions raised about the need for certain specific substations.
There were concerns or questions raised about the paths for certain segments of the overall project and the lines.
And in that regard we have provided testimony supporting why the substations we proposed are needed for reliability or other reasons and why the routing that we proposed makes sense.
And I think there were also a number of stipulated sort of settlements reached with a number of parties that had raised questions along the way as well.
And those were also again summarized in Maureen's testimony.
So again by and large in summary I felt like looking at it that overall that the project was certainly needed.
The question was about the path and the need for certain elements.
But again we feel like we've largely addressed those in the testimony.
So I think that's the Illinois Rivers project.
The MISO has already approved a number of other multi-value projects back in December of 2011 the Spoon River project the Mark Twain project.
And then there are some other pending projects like the Big Muddy River Project.
All those projects again have been approved by MISO as multi-value projects and -- so the plan would be to go ahead and move forward with those projects over time.
And I don't know that there is really anything pending in terms of further demonstration of need for the project.
It's just a matter of sequencing the projects and moving forward on them.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just to clarify then with those projects that have been approved by MISO should we sort of expect those from an end-service date as being sort of outside the 5-year period.
Kind of get the Illinois Rivers through and done and then as you kind of go in and go for other projects as well over time? Yes that's -- I think that's largely a way to think about it.
I mean within the 5 years there could be certainly some spending on those projects.
But the overall transmission growth plans that we have certainly do extend beyond the 5-year window that we're presenting.
Our next question comes from Mitchell Moss with Lord Abbett.
Just a quick question on the Genco business.
There's been some talk on the other -- from some of the other conference calls today that there's been some basis issues.
Could you talk about whether or not you've seen any basis issues for some of your plants? Yes sure.
I think that -- over time I do think that the -- historically at the Illinois hub location there has been some basis discount to Indy hub which is typically looked at as a more liquid trading hub in our region.
And what we've been seeing any way in the recent say 12-month time frame for the merchant business is probably a basis discount to Indy hub around the clock of about 12% or so.
And we've seen those basis differentials certainly fluctuate over time.
Did you see it widen at all in the first quarter? It -- I can't comment specifically on the first quarter but it has fluctuated over time.
And a 12% kind of basis differential isn't historically out of the norm or abnormal when you look back to say that's some of the 2011 data and the like.
So they just -- it does fluctuate over time.
Okay.
And was it -- do you see it as a general transmission constraints? Are there I mean just line outages over time? Or are there any other unique issues going on that you've observed? I can't really pinpoint any unique issues as it relates to our system.
The things you mentioned are things that historically have impacted basis differentials.
So certain generator outages or transmission line outages load fluctuations all of those things can affect basis differential from time to time.
We'll see basis differentials  differentiate seasonally based upon demands on the system.
So all of those things you mentioned certainly are contributors from time to time.
Our next question comes from Andy Levy with Avon Capital.
Most of the questions were asked but just to kind of do some math here.
I don't know if you'll be willing to walk through it with me but -- so kind of based on starting in that $2.20 to $2.40 range at utility earnings that you kind of talked about for this year right.
I mean that's...
Yes well what we did is we gave guidance for $2 to $2.20.
And we said the parent and other were approximately $0.20 which would imply approximately $2.30 for the utilities.
Right midpoint.
Yes so the midpoint right.
So we didn't give out that specific rate.
Okay.
I follow you.
I apologize.
I said bear with me here.
But then you seem to have like rate base growth of about 7% a year if I'm not mistaken which probably turns into about 5% earnings growth.
And I know you haven't given guidance.
But is that kind of a good ballpark to kind of think about? Well you're right.
We haven't given that out.
What we've talked about is that 7% growth rate in rate base and -- but I think if you model it out you should see some sort of similar trend rate with respect to earnings.
But certainly I'm not commenting on specifically the 5%.
I've got it.
So if you kind of did that and you kind of go back to Julien's -- answers to Julien's questions I mean you probably could look at earnings in the $2.50 type range for '15 and that's kind of what I'm thinking.
But kind of what you said on the rate base kind of helps me with that.
So I appreciate it.
That was my question.
Our next question comes from Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> First of all you indicated the Illinois timing issue should be a headwind in the second quarter.
Can you kind of quantify that? Yes sure.
Thanks for the question.
So we did talk a little bit about one of the headwinds we saw in the first quarter compared to last year.
It wasn't unexpected from our perspective but was just the timing of revenue recognition this year versus last year as it related to the Illinois delivery -- electric delivery service.
So in Q2 we expect that to maybe a $0.03 negative versus last year.
Research Division</strong> Is this going to continue to whipsaw around? Or do we lap this at some point and it stabilizes? Yes hopefully we'll see it stabilize next year versus this year.
Maybe I can -- I'll try to describe for you sort of the phenomenon that's causing this though which is that we're -- obviously our earnings for the full year our revenues for the full year are ultimately determined by our actual costs incurred in that year.
As we got into -- the last year was the first year obviously that we were accounting for this new regulatory regime if you will.
Going into last year we projected what our cost of service was going to be.
We projected what the ROE was going to be based on 30-year treasuries and we had an expectation of how the Illinois law would be applied by the ICC.
So as we went through the first couple of quarters last year we were recognizing revenue based on those overall expectations.
As we got into the third quarter of last year towards the end we saw that the cost of service was less than the -- cost to service for the full year was going to be less than we had previously estimated.
We had an ICC order which changed our expectations.
And the 30-year treasuries were coming out as well lower than expectations.
Therefore in the third quarter we had a downward revision to the revenues that have been recognized over the first half of the year and then a further adjustment in the fourth quarter.
So those -- the accounting model is still in place and we're still say in this first quarter recognizing revenues based on our full year expected cost of service for that business.
So there still could be some volatility from year to year.
But I would expect that to dampen over time.
Last year was the first year where we're kind of working through this new process and I think probably bigger fluctuations this year versus last than we should see moving forward.
So in Q1 we estimated that the impact was about $0.08 in terms of negative impact versus last year.
Due to that as I mentioned about $0.03 in the second quarter.
We expect that that then will reverse.
As I mentioned last year in the third quarter we had a downward revision.
We expect that then year-over-year in the third quarter of this year we would see a benefit.
And it could be in the range of as much as $0.10 of positive impact in Q3 another $0.04 in Q4 so that over the course of the year you're up a few cents versus last year.
Research Division</strong> And what's the order of magnitude of the Missouri Appeals Court depending on how that goes? Yes.
So that could swing either way.
And you'll recall that we have actually recognized a charge in the prior year of about $18 million or $0.04.
So that could reverse.
On the other hand if that goes against us it could be a negative of up to about another $26 million or $0.06.
So it's a range of about a plus $0.04 to a minus $0.06 on that.
Research Division</strong> And you would keep that in ongoing earnings or...
Yes.
We have historically had that in ongoing earnings.
And I would say on the minus $0.06 that would really be dependent upon how things ultimately played out with the commission on those remaining costs so that we do have before the commission a request for accounting authority order on that to be able to defer and recover some of those costs.
But we'll just have to see how all of that plays out.
We have no further questions at this time Mr.
Fischer.
So I would like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comment.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for 1 year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or Matt Thayer my associate.
Media should call Brian Bretsch.
Our contact numbers are on the release as I said.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and good day.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
And thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors section in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will now begin this call with an overview of second quarter 2013 results and our updated 2013 earnings guidance followed by an update as well on recent business developments.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of second quarter 2013 financial results other financial matters and pending rate cases.
We will then open the call for questions.
Now here's Tom who will start on Page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced second quarter 2013 net income from continuing operations of $0.44 per share compared to second quarter 2012 net income from continuing operations of $0.66 per share.
This reduction in earnings was a result of a planned nuclear refueling outage and an unfavorable court decision related to the Missouri fuel adjustment clause or FAC both in 2013 an impact of a favorable regulatory decision in 2012.
In addition our earnings were reduced because of milder weather.
The 2013 court action was a May Missouri Court of Appeals decision related to FAC treatment of certain prior-period wholesale sales.
The second quarter earnings comparison was favorably impacted by new rates for Missouri Electric and Illinois Transmission Service both effective in January 2013.
Second quarter earnings from continuing operations were in line with our expectations excluding the charge related to the Missouri Court of Appeals' FAC decision.
Reflecting our agreement to divest our merchant generation business to an affiliate of Dynegy merchant generation results are classified as discontinued operations in our financial statements.
Marty will provide more details on our earning in a few minutes.
Moving now to Page 4.
Today we also updated earnings guidance.
We now expect 2013 earnings from continuing operations to be in the range of $2 to $2.15 per share compared to the prior range of $2 to $2.20 per share.
This new guidance range incorporates the second quarter 2013 charge of $0.06 per share resulting from the FAC decision just discussed as well as cost-containment within our Missouri operations.
Guidance continues to incorporate approximately $0.20 per share of parent company and other cost including certain costs that were previously allocated to the merchant generation business.
Turning to Page 5.
We remain committed to closing a transaction to divest our merchant generation business to an affiliate of Dynegy.
Once this business is divested Ameren will be a purely rate regulated electric natural gas and transmission company focused on growing our investments in energy infrastructure benefiting our customers communities and investors.
We're working diligently with Dynegy to complete the transaction and continue to anticipate our fourth quarter 2013 closing.
Request for regulatory approvals are pending at the Illinois Pollution Control Board and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC.
Last month Dynegy's Illinois Power Holdings Units or IPH and our merchant generation subsidiaries requested that the Illinois Pollution Control Board grant IPH the same variance from the Illinois multipollution standard that was granted to Ameren Energy Resources in 2012.
We expect the variance to be granted and the board has until late November of this year to issue a decision.
Regarding the FERC filing for divestiture approval last Friday FERC requested copies of Ameren Energy Marketing's long-term wholesale contracts with 2 entities both of which have intervened at FERC.
Ameren Energy Marketing entered into these contracts under its market-based rate authority.
Therefore we now believe the contract should impede FERC's approval of the divestiture.
In addition FERC requested that an input into Ameren's market power study be revised.
Ameren and Dynegy must respond to these information requests by August 9.
In addition our efforts to sell the 3 gas-fired energy centers we retained with the exercise of the Genco put option are progressing.
We have shortlisted multiple interested potential buyers based on their initial proposals and we continue to expect to sell these plants by year end subject to separate approval by the FERC.
Moving to Page 6.
We remain focused on improving the regulatory frameworks for investing in our utilities and states for the benefit of customers communities and investors.
And I'm pleased to report important recent successes on this front in the State of Illinois.
In 2011 the Illinois General Assembly enacted the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
This act was intended to spur a decade of investment in electric delivery reliability improved customer service and job creation.
However the Illinois Commerce Commission or ICC misapplied the act in our 2012 electric delivery formula rates.
This is our view.
To correct these misapplications the Illinois General Assembly overwrote Governor Quinn's veto and enacted Senate Bill 9.
The stature ensures that the originally intended provisions of the 2011 Act are applied by requiring that year end not average rate base and capital structure be used for ratemaking.
Further the new stature requires the use of weighted average cost of capital not a short-term interest rate for computation of annual revenue requirement true-up deferrals.
Application of SB 9's provisions is expected to have little net impact on 2013 earnings.
However we do expect these provisions to be meaningful as our infrastructure modernization investments grow in the coming years.
Further Governor Quinn signed the Natural Gas Consumer Safety &amp; Reliability Act in July 2013.
This new law establishes a regulatory framework for accelerating gas infrastructure investment improving customer service and creating jobs.
Utilities that elect to participate may implement rate surcharges for infrastructure investments made between rate cases.
Eligible gas delivery plant additions include replacement of mains and older pipe relocation of meters and the installation of advanced meters among other things.
These surcharges may be updated monthly.
The law retains ICC oversight of utility rates and provides consumer protections including an average annual cap on surcharges of 4% of utility rate base revenues.
Ameren Illinois expects to participate in this ratemaking program beginning in 2014 or 2015.
Further it plans to make an incremental $330 million of capital investment above a baseline of $770 million over 10 years and to create 150 new jobs at the program's peak.
Turning now to Page 7 in Missouri.
We also remained committed to enhancing Missouri regulatory framework to better support investment in that state's energy infrastructure.
We're focused on enhancements that would support electric utility investments that are already in place and serving customers between rate cases.
We were encouraged by the substantial majorities in both the Missouri House and the Senate that supported the Infrastructure Strengthening and Regulatory Streamlining Act commonly referred to as electric ISRS in the 2013 session.
However the legislation was blocked late in the session by a few filibustering senators.
We are evaluating options for legislation in 2014 and we'll continue to work diligently on this important matter.
As detailed on this page Missouri electric utility regulation has improved in recent years.
However the lack of a modern framework that better supports capital investments made between rate cases limits the level of discretionary investment we can reasonably make in our energy infrastructure in this jurisdiction.
An improved framework would be positive for job creation the quality of service we can provide to our customers and the return opportunity we provide to our investors.
Before I conclude my comments on our Missouri utility I want to mention a recent operational development.
Last Friday the Callaway Energy Center experienced a fault in its electrical equipment that transfers power from its generator to its main transformers which provide power to the grid and to the plant.
The fault tripped the plant and it also caused a small fire in the turbine building which is located in a nonnuclear part of the facility.
The fire was quickly extinguished.
At no time did the situation threaten the public and no one was injured.
The plant is currently out of service and we are still in the process of assessing whether there was any major equipment damage as a result of this event.
Our preliminary test to date do not indicate that we incurred any significant damage to our major equipment.
However we still have a series of tests that we need to conduct through the weekend.
Until all of our testing is completed we are unable to provide an exact date as to when Callaway will return to service or an exact estimate of any related financial impacts of this outage.
If our complete testing confirms that no damage was sustained beyond that which has been identified to date we estimate that the energy center will return to service in 15 to 20 days and that the earnings impact will be less than $0.01 per share.
Moving to Page 8 of our presentation.
I will conclude my business update by discussing electric transmission.
Our plans to invest approximately $2.2 billion in FERC regulated electric transmission projects over the 5-year period ending in 2017 are a key part of Ameren's business strategy.
These projects will benefit customers by providing more reliable and efficient electric system and it will also create jobs.
Constructive forward-looking formula ratemaking that is in place for these projects provides an opportunity for us to earn fair returns on our investments recover our costs on a timely basis.
Our single largest planned transmission investment is Ameren Transmission Companies of Illinois Illinois Rivers project.
This approximate $1.1 billion MISO approved regional multivalue project involves the construction of a new high-voltage transmission line across the state of Illinois.
Our request for a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the approximate 400-mile transmission line is pending at the ICC.
In early July the ICC Administrative Law Judges hearing the case issued their recommendations.
We are pleased that the ALJ has agreed the project is necessary and the best approach to addressing transmission and reliability needs and the development of the competitive electricity market.
Further we are encouraged that the ALJ has recommended that a majority of the Illinois River project 7 of 9 segments be granted the requested certificate.
We comprehensively responded to the questions raised by the ALJs regarding the location of 2 of the 9 line segments and certain substations in our briefs on exceptions filed on July 18.
Therefore we expect a constructive decision from the ICC by August 20 and we expect this decision to allow ATXI to maintain our previously disclosed capital investment plans for the project.
Upon receipt of the certificate from the ICC we will begin to acquire rights of way for the transmission line with a full range of construction activities expected to begin in 2014.
Closing my prepared remarks we remained focused on delivering strong returns to our shareholders by investing in and operating our businesses in a manner consistent with our existing regulatory frameworks.
This means we will exercise disciplined capital allocation concentrating our discretionary investments in those jurisdictions that provide modern constructive regulatory frameworks like those at FERC and in Illinois.
Finally we are committed to growing our earnings earning fair returns on our investments and meeting our customers' energy needs and expectations.
I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Page 9 of the presentation.
Today we reported second quarter 2013 net income combining results of both continuing and discontinued operations of $0.39 per share compared to second quarter 2012 net income of $0.87 per share.
The second quarter 2013 net income included a loss of $0.05 per share from discontinued operations.
As Tom previously discussed Ameren earnings from continuing operations were $0.44 per share for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $0.66 per share for the second quarter of last year.
On Page 10 we list the key factors that drove the $0.22 per share decline in second quarter earnings from continuing operations.
Several large items impacted the quarterly comparison.
These include expenses related to a planned Callaway Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage which reduced earnings by $0.08 per share.
Because Callaway has refueled approximately every 18 months there was no refueling outage or associated expenses in 2012.
In addition the second quarter 2013 earnings were reduced by $0.06 per share as a result of the Missouri Court of Appeals' decision Tom referenced earlier.
This decision related to FAC treatment of certain prior period wholesale sales which occurred in the 2009 through 2011 period.
The earnings decline also reflected the absence in 2013 of a $0.07 per share 2012 benefit from a FERC order related to a disputed Missouri purchase power agreement.
Moving to sales.
Temperatures negatively impacted the earnings comparison by approximately $0.05 per share.
This year's early summer temperatures were cooler than last year's warmer-than-normal temperatures reducing electric sales volumes to our native load customers.
Electric and gas sales volumes to native load customers also fell on a weather-normalized basis reducing second quarter 2013 earnings by approximately $0.02 per share compared to the same period a year ago.
This primarily reflected lower weather normalized electric sales volumes in Missouri offset by increased weather normalized electric sales in Illinois and natural gas sales in Missouri.
While on the topic of sales I want to mention that for the full year of 2013 we expect weather normalized electric sales volumes to native load customers to be roughly flat with those of the prior year.
Combined residential and commercial sales volumes are expected to increase about 0.5% but this is expected to be offset by an expected decline in lower margin industrial sales volumes.
Focus now on the last item on Page 10.
The second quarter 2013 earnings per share comparison was favorably impacted by new rates from Missouri Electric and Illinois Transmission Service both effective in January 2013 which combined the increase in earnings by $0.08 per share.
Turning now to Page 11.
Before concluding my discussion of earnings I'd like to provide you with some information to assist your thinking about Ameren's third and fourth quarter 2013 earnings outlook.
On this page we've listed select items that are expected to impact third and fourth quarter 2013 earnings from continuing operations as compared to the impact of these items in the third and fourth quarters of 2012.
First of these items is weather.
In last year's third quarter warmer-than-normal summer temperatures increased earnings by an estimated $0.14 per share.
And in the last year's fourth quarter warmer-than-normal early winter temperatures reduced earnings by an estimated $0.02 per share.
Our 2013 guidance for earnings from continuing operations assumes normal temperatures for the second half of this year.
The second item to note is an expected positive impact on the Ameren Illinois electric delivery earnings comparison resulting from variation in the timing and amount of expected full year recoverable cost under formula ratemaking.
These earnings are expected to increase by approximately $0.10 per share in the third quarter 2013 and $0.01 per share in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year periods.
This is a good place to note that our full year 2013 Illinois electric delivery earnings guidance now incorporates an average 30-year treasury bond yield of approximately 3.4% and therefore a formula allowed return on equity of approximately 9.2%.
Finally earnings should benefit from the new Missouri and Illinois transmission rates that went into effect in January of this year.
Turning then to Page 12.
We move from earnings to a discussion of our updated 2013 cash flow guidance.
We calculate free cash flow by starting with our net cash provided by operating activities and subtracting from it our capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities dividends and advances received for construction.
For 2013 we now anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $450 million an improvement of $50 million from our May 2013 guidance.
The guidance continues to include merchant divesture-related cash outflows of approximately $100 million including the $25 million of cash that is currently held at Genco.
These divesture-related cash outflows are more than offset by expected transaction-related cash tax benefits of approximately $180 million in present value to be substantially realized in 2015.
Moving to Page 13.
I would like to update you on Ameren Illinois' 2 pending Illinois energy delivery rate cases.
First in January of this year we filed a request for an increase in gas delivery rates based on a 2014 future test year.
In June the ICC staff and other intervenors filed their initial testimony in this gas case.
The primary differences between our request and the positions of the ICC staff and the Illinois Industrial Energy customers are related to the return on equity level that should be incorporated into rates.
In addition the Illinois Attorney General and Citizens Utility Board recommended that the ICC use a higher forecast of revenues from gas transportation and industrial customers than we had proposed.
If adopted this adjustment would reduce the needed rate increase.
A final ICC decision is due by December 19 of this year.
Turning to Page 14.
In addition to the pending gas rate case in April of this year we made the required annual electric delivery rate update filing.
Our filing supports a net annual rate decrease consisting of a decrease for the 2012 revenue reconciliation under formula ratemaking partially offset by an increase primarily reflecting 2012 recoverable cost and expected 2013 net plant additions as prescribed by the rate formula.
In June the ICC staff filed its initial testimony in the case recommending a larger net rate decrease than we had requested.
The difference between our request and the staff's recommendation is primarily attributable to the same cost of service adjustments made by the ICC in our 2012 rate orders.
A final ICC decision is due by December 15 of this year and the new rates will take effect in January of next year.
Moving finally to Page 14 of our presentation let me summarize.
Second quarter 2013 earnings from continuing operations were in line with our expectations excluding the charge related to the Missouri Court of Appeals' FAC decision.
Service to customers has remained highly reliable.
We remain committed to a fourth quarter 2013 closing of the transaction to divest our merchant generation business.
The divestiture allows to focus exclusively on our rate regulated utilities.
In addition we remained focused on improving our regulatory frameworks and have seen recent progress on that front in Illinois.
Further our utility investment plans provide the foundation for growing our rate regulated earnings.
In fact we project rate base will grow at a compound annual rate of approximately 7% over the 5-year period ending in 2017.
Finally Ameren's $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate is well covered by expected 2013 earnings from continuing operations and provides investors with an attractive current yield of approximately 4.5%.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
I wanted to ask you about the FERC office of energy market request for additional information.
It looked like there was -- I guess they want some more information at least partly because of market power.
And also I'm just wondering what you thought about any potential schedule impact or just what you could tell us more about the interplay with that in your -- getting these plants sold? Yes sure.
Paul.
So you're right.
I mean last week the FERC did have a I'll call it a data request but they did ask for additional information with respect to a couple of things.
They asked for contracts that we have with 2 customers and they also then asked for some additional information with respect to the market power effects on competition.
We have 14 days to respond.
We expect to certainly be able to respond within the 14 days.
And we don't expect that the additional information they've asked for with respect to the market power impacts to really have any meaningful effect on the data and certainly no effect overall on the conclusion.
So we're going to provide that data as soon as we can and we're hopeful that there won't be any impact on the overall schedule.
We still expect that once the FERC receives that data they may certainty invite some opportunity for comment on that but wouldn't expect that it would slow the FERC process down meaningfully such that as you heard on the call we still expect to be able to get FERC approval and close the transaction by year end.
Okay.
Now I know you guys obviously are planning on selling the plants but any thoughts about just sort of the RPM auction and the ability going forward next year's auctions with respect to the potential to sell capacity into PJM just seams issues what-have-you? Any thought with respect to what we saw in May and what might be there? Obviously I know you guys are getting rid of the plants but obviously you're still working with them.
So I just was wondering if you have any thought about that.
Paul no I wouldn't say I have any specific thought with respect to the auction for next year.
As you know the -- this business segment that we're divesting of was successful in getting the ability to sell additional capacity into PJM in periods beyond really the '14 timeframe looking out to post '16.
And generally those prices still look favorable to the prices that exist in MISO today.
And so I think just continuing to execute on selling what capacity can be sold into PJM is what that business segment will continue to focus on.
Our next question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Perhaps first just going back to kind of the merchant business if you will just entertain me for one second.
I'd be curious if any of the latest regulations kind of change the landscape at all.
One hour SO2.
Recently Illinois draft coal ash rules recently released.
Does that change anything as far as you're concerned? No it doesn't.
Certainly we're monitoring developments there.
But as you know the decision to exit the merchant business is a strategic decision for us.
Really provides us the opportunity to focus exclusively on our rate regulated operations.
And so no Julien while we're certainly monitoring conditions and frankly that business segment that we're selling continues to operate well and perform well but it's obviously a strategic decision to exit the business.
Research Division</strong> And then going back to the Missouri legislation this year.
Just kind of a little bit rehashing and thinking about next year others have alluded to potentially going back for it perhaps in a little bit more of a diluted approach.
Have you put any thoughts to that next year? This is Warner Baxter.
And so the simple answer is of course we're looking at all kinds of options as we look forward to legislation for next year.
I mean certainly there was a bill that was presented on the senate floor late in the session which we thought was a good bill.
That's certainly an option.
We also look at several amendments that were prepared to be discussed and never really got discussed in the floor.
Those are potential options.
And there are certainly options for even the skinnier version.
So what we're going to do and what we've been doing and we'll continue to do is have discussions with key stakeholders to get their input to see what we can do to move constructive legislation forward that will support investment in the state of Missouri.
So that's what we'll do.
And we'll continue to work with our key allies in Missouri including all the electric energy providers to try and craft an appropriate approach forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a last little detail.
Just going back to what you were talking about a second ago in the prepared remarks and I apologize if I missed this but with regards to the outage here at Callaway any kind of sense of how significant this would be from a timeline perspective and impact the 3Q results just initially at least? So Julien this is Warner again.
I think Tom said that basically we still have some more tests that we have to complete.
And that will take us through the weekend.
But preliminary tests indicate that we haven't incurred any significant damage.
And so if everything we have seen so far indeed carries through once we complete our tests it means that Callaway would -- we would expect that beyond another 15 to 20 days from today to get it back into service.
But the tests aren't done and we will get those done through the weekend and we'll have a better assessment certainty some time next week.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Andy Bischof with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> What would you expect for a ruling after you supply the additional information by August 9? Yes this is Marty again Andy.
It's hard to know exactly when they would respond.
There's no specific timeline.
Once -- you got about 180 days frankly to respond and can extend for another 180.
But obviously this request for information indicates to us that they are actively looking at our filing and we would expect FERC based on past practice to move more quickly than the 180 days that are allowed.
So no specific deadline but again based on past experience we certainly expect again to get the FERC approval and be able to close by year end.
Of course there's another filing that have been made at the Pollution Control Board and there the timeline is about 120 days.
So in both cases we expect to get the Pollution Control Board approval for the air variance transfer as well as the FERC approval for the sale in time still to be able to accomplish a closing before year end.
Research Division</strong> Moving to low trends I guess during the quarter we've seen some weakness in competitor low trends.
Can you just provide a little more clarity on the trends you're seeing across your customer base? Sure I'll be happy to comment on that.
This year we've seen a bit of variation very much like we saw last year.
The weather normalized sales started out pretty strong in Q1 but again like last year we had some quarterly volatility and we had a bit of contraction in the second quarter.
Year-to-date however I would say our residential and commercial sales are up about 0.5%.
We said at the end of each of the last 2 quarters that in terms of our 2013 guidance that we expected little in the way of growth.
And so like I said residential and commercial sales across our utilities are up about 0.5% and that's we're looking for for the full year about 0.5% of growth in residential and commercial sales.
With respect to industrial between Missouri and Illinois they've been down a little bit this year primarily in Illinois.
Missouri is actually flat to up a little bit.
The Illinois trend is a reversal from the past couple of years where we saw really solid increases in industrial sales.
But this year they've turned south a little bit.
For the full year we expect similar kind of patterns for Missouri to be up a little bit in terms of industrial and for Illinois to be down.
So those are some of the trends we're seeing.
I think -- when I think about the economy and what's going on what may drive the sales frankly in Missouri the growth in our sales is kind of underscored by some of the things we're seeing in terms of positive movement job growth good producing and services jobs housing starts have been on the rise a little bit and our customer counts are up.
Year-over-year both residential and commercial residential up about 0.4%; commericial about 0.7%.
So we're seeing some good trends that give us confidence that 0.5% of growth will be there for the year in residential and commercial and happy to see Missouri industrial sales up a hair this year.
So that's generally I guess what we're seeing.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Jenkins with the Wisconsin Investment Board.
This is Dan Jenkins.
I wonder if you could give me a little more background on this Appellate Court decision on the FAC and Missouri.
And then just what the basis was for the decision? And then if it will have any impact on how your FAC operates going forward? Sure Dan.
Maybe Warner will -- who's president of our Missouri operations will take that one again.
So remember when you go back to this issue it really relates to some margins that we realized from certain wholesale contracts.
Actually back several years ago that the Missouri Public Service Commission felt those margins should have been provided back to our fuel adjustment clause like many of our other office system sales are under the existing rules.
And these wholesale contracts really stem from some excess power that we had available for sale due to the loss of load from Noranda Aluminum which is our largest customer resulting from a severe ice storm in 2009.
And so you go back in 2011 the commission issued the order that we had to refund approximately $80 million of margins earned for the period March '09 to September '09.
And we indeed recorded that charge back in 2011.
That's a pretax charge.
That was -- that did not take those contracts through their full duration.
Those contracts went further.
And so in 2012 the staff Missouri Public Commission staff recommended additional refund of about $26 million related to the same wholesale contracts.
And that's from the period from October 2009 to May 2011 whereas the first one was for March 2009-September 2009 that was the period under review.
In 2012 just to give you the history so you know we actually ended up winning our appeal of the commission's order before the Coal County Circuit Court but later in 2013 which is the Appellate Court decision that Marty referenced we -- the Missouri Court of Appeals upheld the Missouri Public Service Commission's position.
So as a result of all those things the commission yesterday issued an order requiring that refund of $26 million.
And that's about $0.06 per share as Marty talked about.
And so we obviously will comply with that.
And while we were disappointed with the commission's decision we certainty weren't surprised given the recent Appellate Court decision.
So really as we go forward we will continue to operate under the provisions of the Missouri fuel adjustment clause.
We will -- to the extent that we will follow we really don't have an issue because we don't have similar types of wholesale contracts going forward.
We'll just continue to have -- do the off-system sales as we do today and we'll provide 95% of those margins back to the fuel adjustment clause.
The one thing that you should know during all of this period of time that we actually did file another or initiated another proceeding in the state of Missouri.
And this goes back to July 2011 where we filed with the -- a request with the commission for an accounting authority order that allow Ameren Missouri to defer as a regulatory asset.
Really the fixed cost totaling about $36 million that were not recovered from Noranda as a result of that loss of the load back in 2009.
So now that all of these other decisions have been put behind us the commission now still has before it another docket to potentially provide us an accounting authority order for those losses that we incurred as a result of that loss of load.
So a bit of a long story but that gave you sort of the history of what's going on with the fuel adjustment clause and where things stand today.
And so there is no set timetable for the commission to make a decision on this accounting authority order request but we think the decks are now clear for them to take that up in the relative near future.
Okay.
And you don't intend to appeal that under the Supreme Court the appellate ...? The appeal of the Supreme court no we don't tend to do that.
There are certain provisions of the commission's order which we may look to appeal not the entire $26 million but another smaller component of that about $3 million that we think may have been addressed in the prior rate case settlement that's still under review.
But beyond that no we do not plan to take this up to the Supreme Court.
Okay.
And then just what's your regulatory schedule I guess in Missouri? You don't currently have it filed as -- but you have talked in the past about being a more regular rate case scheduled.
Should they expect something coming up in the next few months? Dan we haven't made any final decisions as to when we'll file our next rate case.
But just as we've done in the past we'll seek to time the filing of our next case to mitigate regulatory lag.
And that's regulatory lag resulting from meaningful capital additions as well as to mitigate regulatory lag for operating costs.
And so when we look at those things obviously we just completed a rate case at the end of last year we'll be mindful of those types of things as well as capital additions that we have coming before us in a variety of different areas not just in '13 but in '14.
So a final decision hasn't been made but we keep a very close eye on all these things in terms of when we'll file our next rate case.
Okay.
And then the last thing I has is you had a slide show on the cash flow and the fact it will be negative I just wondered if you could update us what your financing plans are coming up.
Sure Dan.
this is Marty again.
So in terms of financing plans as you probably know from looking at our balance sheet really nothing in terms of short-term debt at this point have good liquidity.
So we'll be looking at this year as some of the maturities that I believe we talked to you about last quarter that we have coming up both in Missouri and Illinois.
And then we've got -- the negative cash flow is really being driven by the capital expenditure plans we have overall.
So we'll be taking a look again at those maturities plus the cash flows driven by the rate base growth and then refinancing those when they get to levels that we think are appropriate to take to the financial market.
As we look right now some of that financing may be done in the second half of this year some of it may slip to the first quarter of next year.
So -- but those are the plans.
And then of course next year we've got the debt up at the holding company that you're aware of that we'll be looking at refinancing options.
Those come up in May of next year May '14.
And certainly we've got the opportunity there as we talked about before to significantly lower the interest rate of that -- the parent company debt.
And Dan while I've got you one thing I want to tack on to Warner's thing it's just important is that the charge we took relative to the FAC that when we had the similar one in a prior period but those are fully behind us those sales that were in question happened during the finite period of time the FAC was later modified to address those kinds of things.
So it's not an issue that will be recurring going forward.
So that $0.06 item was a bit of a onetime item this year and in terms of it not happening again in the future.
And we did include it in our core if you will earnings from operating activities.
But that is not something that would repeat in future periods.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolf Research.
LLC</strong> So listen on the Illinois Rivers just -- do you agree that the ALJ recommendation was adopted largely as it is? I mean how much of an impact might it have on the CapEx for that project? I mean obviously there were some segments here.
Steve we have with us here today the president of that subsidiary in segment Maureen Borkowski.
I think I'll let her address your question.
I think the question is if the ALJ order was approved as is how would it affect our CapEx? Realistically what would happen is it would probably trigger another proceeding if the order was approved as is.
We would have 7 of the 9 line segments approved for routing as well as several of the substations we would be moving out on those.
And then we would need additional clarity on the remaining 2 segments and the substations.
The issue is not really whether or not those things are needed and whether or not they're going to be built it's just a matter of what the route is.
With regard to the 2 line segments that the ALJ didn't recommend approval of the route was somewhat in question because there was a question about where the locations that were the terminating points of those line segments should be.
With regard to the substations that they didn't recommend approval of the issue was really with regard to the use of the facilities and sites of some existing Ameren Illinois company substations that were nearby.
And whether or not we needed new sites adjacent to those facilities or if those existing facilities could be utilized.
So it's really just a matter of getting clarity around those issues.
So the bottom line is if the ALJ order was adopted as is we still wouldn't expect it to significantly affect our capital investment.
We'll probably have another proceeding that was a follow-on to clarify the remaining issues.
We're hopeful though that the response that we provided to some of the issues the ALJs had raised will be clarified in a commission order that's due on August 20.
Did that answer your question? LLC</strong> Okay.
Yes that's very helpful.
And I think on Dynegy's call this morning they talked about continued and worsening congestion issues in the region and potential transmission needs for that.
Can you talk about whether you're seeing more opportunities in your transition business to address that issue? We certainly are always looking forward to new transmission investment opportunities.
But as you know the regional transmission plan is really designed by MISO.
So we continue to work with the Midwest ISO and with Dynegy and other entities about addressing some of the congestion issues.
But MISO has to work that through their lengthy stakeholder transmission planning process and any needed improvements have to be determined within the course of the parameters that their transmission plan sets up.
Most of the time I would think these kinds of projects would have to be either reliability or market efficiency projects.
We're certainty continuing to propose projects that would address some of these issues but they have to work their way through the planning process.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One last question I guess for Tom.
I think on the last call you mentioned that there's going to be kind of a board retreat in June might have been a response to a question on dividend strategy and dividend growth.
Anything come out of that on -- in terms of the kind of thinking on dividend strategy and even just how the company looks once this generation transaction is completed? Sure.
We did have a what I would view as a successful strategy update session with our board in June.
They bought into the management's plan about growing -- how we anticipate to grow the business by making investments.
We're totally supportive of that approach and they're very much in favor of us as we grow earnings as we grow the rate base and grow earnings that we would also grow the dividend over a period of time.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
I just wanted to see if I could get a little bit more color in terms of the regulatory lag issue in Missouri.
And in particular how fast are you incurring lag and what's a reasonable amount of lag to accept before you file? This is Warner Baxter.
When you look at regulatory lag in Missouri it's driven by a couple of things.
Number one it's driven by the fact that they use historical tests here principally to set rates.
Another big driver is that when capital investments are placed into service between rate cases there's now an ability to update rates for those major adjustments.
And so what we have been doing as a company is that we've been working very hard and had success in better aligning our spend across our enterprise both capital and O&amp;M to be more consistent with the regulatory framework that we have in front of us in the state of Missouri.
And so we've been able to manage that and we continue to do that going forward.
But of course there will be some point where we're going to have to file rate cases.
And what we've been very focused on is narrowing that gap between the allowed return on equity provided by the commission and what our actual earned return on equity has been and we've been able to do that over the last several years pretty successfully.
So I wouldn't say there's a magical number or a magical timeframe we just know that we're going to manage our operations and manage consistent with that and keep a fairly narrow gap and that's what our plan has been and will continue to be.
Is it too precise to say that you guys are hopeful that you can stay out until you have another shot at the legislation? Or is that too fine a point? Kevin I would say that's too fine a point.
We'll do what we think is right for the business what we think is right for shareholders.
And that's when we'll file rate cases as well as frankly we think legislation isn't just about how we earn better returns.
We think it's in the best interest frankly of the state of Missouri and its customers.
And so bottom line we're trying to create a win-win for everybody.
Okay.
And in terms of financing plans as we look over the next couple of years you guys obviously have a big CapEx buildout.
Could you give us some color in terms of the need for equity or target capital ratios for the consolidated firm? Sure this is Marty again.
We've provided these over time.
I think we look to keep the equity content and the cap structure over time around that 50-50 kind of level where we are today.
So we think that's a target that we'd have going forward.
We haven't given any specific guidance on any need for equity.
Obviously we've got a strong we believe rate base growth plan capital expenditure plan expect to be able to grow rate base 7% annually out through 2017 as we mentioned earlier.
Largely we believe that will be funded by the reinvestment of retained earnings as our -- from the earnings we got in the business and the growth in the earnings going forward coupled with that financing.
To the extent that we needed some supplemental equity which we're not issuing any currently but would have the ability to turn on our DRIP or 401(k) or utilize those programs to generate additional equity.
But again we're not doing that currently and we would make that decision on a year-by-year basis going forward.
Okay.
And just last a last question.
I just want to confirm that if the ALJ position is upheld on the Illinois Rivers project that even if you have to seek a second proceeding to get the full amount of the substations and lines completed the construction on the project as a whole will move forward as scheduled and it's kind of an add-on to that incremental process that you would need to go through? In others it wouldn't delay the spending of the CapEx.
This is Maureen.
Yes that's is correct.
I mean the encouraging news about the ALJ order is that they completely endorse the need for the project and said that Illinois River is the best approach.
So really this issue with regard to the substations and the remaining 2 line segments is about where they should be not whether or not they're needed.
So yes we would move out on the segments and the stations that have been approved and then would work through the issues with regard to the routing of the remaining segments and stations.
It would not impact the CapEx plan.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Rajeev Lalwani on Stephen's team.
I just have a question on a comment you made in Missouri the cost referral that you're seeking relating to Noranda is that kind of a one-time thing or will that carry forward? Rajeev this is Warner Baxter.
This would be really kind of a one-time thing.
The event was the loss fixed cost resulting from the ice storm and so it would be a one-time event.
And so the commission is in the county authority order and then if we'd be granted that county authority ordered then we would seek to put the commission's decision into rates during our next rate case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question was on Illinois.
As we see the 30-year treasury go up why is that not impacting your expected earnings for the business? Or is it too small to have much of an impact? Yes.
No it is embedded in there.
So we have seen the 30-year treasuries rise this year but it is having -- it's up I guess about 30 basis points from where we started our guidance at the beginning of the year and 30 basis points for this year is about $0.015.
So that is embedded in the overall guidance.
If you look at the guidance we've provided and I think somebody did this last time took a $2 to $2.15 range and then added back the parent and other of $0.20 to get to a midpoint of a range around our regulated earnings which gets you to about $2.27 or $2.28 somewhere in that range.
We started the year with regulated earnings expectations of $2.25.
After the first quarter we raised it to a midpoint of about $2.30 and again there's a range around these numbers.
We didn't have anything specifically and therefore the $0.06 FAC charge frankly as Warner said earlier could have gone either way been a $0.06 charge or a $0.04 upside.
The fact that we have this $0.06 charge is the reason that we're bringing down the upper end of our range from $2.20 to $2.15.
But my point is that we brought down that midpoint only $0.02 or $0.03.
Based on that charge we're seeing a little bit of upside from the -- from those 30-year treasuries and we're also controlling our cost to help offset some of that.
And bottom line it's steady as she goes in terms of regulated earnings for this year.
We've been between that $2.25 and $2.30 midpoint we're still there even after this FAC charge at about that $2.27 to $2.28 range.
So those are some of the things that we're incorporating.
We had a Callaway refueling outage in the second quarter.
The result of that as we've shared in our talking points it was $0.08 for the quarter $0.09 for the year right in line with the guidance we provided earlier in the year.
So all in all it's -- we're -- things are in line through 6 months.
Research Division</strong> Just another follow-up question on Illinois.
In terms of the new legislation there it seem like it didn't have much of an impact on your numbers.
Can you just talk about why that is? And I was under the impression that it will improve the delta between earned and the lag going forward.
Yes you're asking about the Illinois Electric in particular? Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
Yes.
So the reason it didn't have a -- really a big impact on this year is that it will have a positive impact going forward.
So Tom went through some of the things that are underscored which is use of the year end rate base the actual year end cap structure as well as in weighted average cost to capital returns on deferrals.
One of the things in our talking points we did talk about is that coming out of the first year of the use of the legislation there's actually a deferral that is actually a liability back to the customers.
And so when you look at the weighted average cost of capital return on that that is actually an incremental obligation which mitigates the positive impact of the other 2 items the year end rate base and the actual cap structure.
So for the year it was a bit of a neutral.
As we go through time this is what was in our talking points we go through time and we deploy the capital in order to improve the infrastructure create the jobs per the Act we expect those deferrals to be actually regulatory assets and would expect them to -- the weighted average cost of capital returns on those.
So this year it kind of netted out to not really having much of an impact.
But going forward those fixes to the legislation are necessary and will be positive overall.
Our next question comes from the line of Ashar Khan with Visium.
My question has been answered.
Our final question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to Ameren Illinois real quick.
I want to make sure I understand we've seen this with Commonwealth Edison what is the amount of -- on the electric side of items of cost that the commission does not include in the formula rate process.
Meaning that creates a little bit of structural earnings -- structural underearning.
I don't think it's a huge number but when you think about kind of going for 2014 2015 and beyond.
Yes.
Michael I wish I had that in front of me.
We went through some of this actually coming out of our year end call and perhaps Doug can find the slide.
What we did coming at year end we gave our guidance for this year.
So we actually laid out some of the items that actually we expected to cause some under earning this year.
Actually Doug wasn't able to pull that out.
The things we laid out at that time Michael were about $8 million of ICC ratemaking adjustments.
Those are things that unless we're able to find some other way to mitigate those or to get recovery those would be sort of recurring.
We laid out and this was back -- it was in Slide 13 by the way in the year end call we made about $7 million of electric system rework that we plan to do and are doing this year and that would not be recoverable.
However while those costs were incurred this year and last year we don't expect that those costs would be sort of going-forward cost.
We believe that that rework is largely behind us after this year.
So we'd not expect that to continue to be a driver of underearning.
And then with the $1 million this -- we have this year it was greater last year we had $1 million this year of required donations under the formula rates and of course we continue to make those donations going forward and those are nonrecoverable.
So I think what we laid out there was about $60 million or so of items impacting us this year both the expectation that that would go down to maybe in the $9 million range next year.
And so that's sort of the guidance we provided.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So when investors think longer-term about the Illinois Electric business should they basically think look on the distribution or delivery side you're likely to -- there's nothing structural that keeps you -- that keeps the rate base math from happening.
Meaning kind of taking an end of year rate base multiplying times whatever the equity layer is and then just taking the 30-year treasury plus 580 bps.
And then maybe subtracting out those structural items you just -- the nonrecoverable items you just talked.
Yes Michael that's right.
You should look for it.
It should be -- it should work formulaically as -- obviously when we got started last year with these reviews there were certainly some debate around some of these historical ICC ratemaking adjustments or how the law would be implemented.
Those historical ICC ratemaking adjustments will continue per the law.
We believe we've gotten clarity from the legislature in terms of the some of the issues that were debated with the ICC.
But generally you're right Michael we should have rate base growth going forward.
The ratemaking should work formulaically as designed.
And as the 30-year treasury say if they do rise then that will impact the overall return.
And I think next year I think that blue chip consensus forecast we use right now it's at 3.95 which would imply for next year if that held through a 9.75 return in the Illinois energy delivery space.
Mr.
Fischer we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that this call is available for 1 year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or my associate Matt Thayer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you.
Mr.
Fischer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fisher Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-Looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with an overview of third quarter 2013 results and our updated 2013 earnings guidance followed by a discussion of recent business developments.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of third quarter 2013 financial results other financial matters and pending rate cases.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Tom begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation are presented on a diluted share basis.
Now here's Tom who will start on Page 3 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced earnings from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2013 of $1.25 per share.
This compares with $1.28 per share for the third quarter of 2012.
The reduction in earnings from continuing operations was primarily the result of lower electric sales volumes reflecting temperatures that were much cooler than those of the prior year period.
The impact of milder weather was partially offset by a rate increase from Missouri Electric Service effective in January of this year higher Illinois electric delivery earnings recognized under formula ratemaking and disciplined cost management.
While Marty will provide details on our earnings in a few minutes the bottom line is that we had a solid quarter from an operations and earnings perspective.
Moving now to Page 4.
Today we also updated our earnings guidance.
We now expect 2013 earnings from continuing operations to be in a range of $2 to $2.10 per share compared to the prior range of $2 to $2.15 per share.
This update incorporates the negative impact of cooler-than-normal weather in the third quarter.
Guidance continues to include approximately $0.20 per share of parent and other costs including certain costs that were previously allocated to the merchant generation business.
However we expect to reduce these costs to $0.10 to $0.15 per share in 2014 and to reduce some further in 2015 as we refinance parent company debt and rationalize operating costs.
Turning now to Page 5.
I would like to briefly review our strategy for achieving financial success and appraise you of progress in a few key areas.
This page outlines some of our key strategic objectives.
Our first objective is to reduce our business risk by completing the divestiture of our merchant generation business.
The resulting shift to a fully rate-regulated business is expected to substantially improve the predictability of future earnings and cash flows.
In a few moments I will update you on our divestiture efforts.
A key second strategic objective is to invest in and operate our businesses in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks.
We do this because healthy financial performance is critical to our shareholders just as it is to our ability to undertake the significant operating and capital spending needed to meet customers' energy needs and expectations.
To meet this objective we have been requesting and obtaining rate increases as needed as well as aligning operating and capital spending consistent with regulatory outcomes and existing frameworks.
As a result of these and other operational and cost containment initiatives our electric rates have remained low delivery service system reliability has been enhanced energy center availability has remained strong and earning returns at our utilities have improved.
To be positioned to invest so that we could meet our future energy needs and expectations we have also been aggressively working to enhance regulatory frameworks which is our third strategic objective listed here.
Modern constructive regulatory frameworks such as those we have in place for our FERC-regulated transmissions and Illinois-regulated energy delivery businesses support investment in utility infrastructure benefiting our utilities and the communities we serve.
The final strategic objective I will mention is that of developing additional rate-regulated opportunities for investment and growing rate base.
Over the last few years we have identified in advance several new attractive opportunities including our Modernization Action Plan which is accelerating improvements to Ameren Illinois' electric and natural gas delivery systems and new FERC-regulated transmission projects designed to improve reliability and efficiency.
We expect successful execution of our strategies to result in meeting our customers' future energy needs and expectations earning fair returns on our investments and earnings and dividend growth driven by projected rate base growth of approximately 7% annually through 2017.
Moving to Page 6.
I would like to update you on our progress toward achieving the first strategic objective I mentioned exiting our merchant generation business.
After many months of tremendous work by people across our organization and close coordination with Dynegy this exit is nearing completion.
We expect to close the divestiture of our Ameren Energy Resources merchant generation business to Dynegy affiliate Illinois Power Holdings by the end of this year.
This transaction received approval from the FERC in October.
The divestiture agreement requires that Illinois Power Holdings receive a variance to the Illinois multi-pollutant standard from the State Pollution Control Board with the same material conditions as the variance issued to our merchant generation business just last year.
Certain Ameren subsidiaries in Illinois Power Holdings filed a variance request in July of this year.
The Pollution Control Board is expected to issue its decision by the 21st of this month and we continue to expect a positive outcome.
In addition our efforts to sell the 3 merchant gas-fired energy centers we retained with the exercise of the Genco put option are nearing a successful conclusion.
In October we announced an agreement to sell the 3 energy centers to an affiliate of Rockland Capital.
The expected sale proceeds are more than sufficient to ensure that the sale does not negatively impact Ameren's earnings or cash flows.
Genco has received $137.5 million for the assets and is expected to receive up to an additional $15 million of after-tax net proceeds from the sale 2 years following the close of this transaction.
The sale of the 3 plants is expected to close by year end subject to FERC approval.
Turning now to Page 7 of our presentation and shifting to transmission.
I would like to update you on the approximately $1.1 billion Illinois Rivers project.
This MISO-approved multi-value project is nearly 400 miles long and it consists of a high-voltage transmission line running west to east across the State of Illinois.
In August the Illinois Commerce Commission or ICC approved the need for the Illinois Rivers project and granted key portions of the project a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
The ICC indicated that it did not approve certain line segments and substations due to a lack of time and evidence to determine the most cost-effective segment routes and substation locations.
We and certain other parties filed with the ICC requesting a rehearing.
In October the ICC granted a rehearing to determine the routing of 4 of the 9 mine segments including 2 granted a certificate in the initial order and the location of 6 of the 9 substations.
We do not expect this rehearing process to delay the project or significantly change our investment plans.
The ICC is expected to issue an order on rehearing by March of next year and we expect a certificate to be granted for the remainder of the project.
Meanwhile we've begun to acquire rights of way for those portions of the project that are not subject to rehearing.
The Illinois Rivers project and in fact all of our Illinois transmission business operates under FERC constructive forward-looking or formula ratemaking framework.
This ratemaking provides an opportunity for us to earn fair returns on our investments and recover our costs on a timely basis.
I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Page 8 of our presentation.
Today we reported third quarter 2013 net income combining results from both continuing and discontinued operations of $1.24 per share compared to third quarter 2012 net income of $1.54 per share.
As Tom previously mentioned our third quarter 2013 earnings from continuing operations were $1.25 per share compared to $1.28 per share for the prior year period.
On Page 9 we outlined key drivers of the variance between earnings for the third quarter of this year compared to the third quarter of last year.
The earnings comparison was negatively impacted by lower electric sales volumes due to temperatures that were much cooler than those of the prior year period.
These cooler summer temperatures reduced 2013 third quarter earnings by an estimated $0.15 per share compared to the third quarter of 2012 and by an estimated $0.03 per share compared to normal temperatures.
Last year third quarter temperatures were very warm with cooling degree days 21% higher than normal.
This year third quarter temperatures were milder with cooling degree days 5% lower than normal.
The quarter-over-quarter temperature-related earnings variance was offset by several positive factors including increased rates from Missouri Electric Service effective in January of 2013.
That rate adjustment favorably impacted third quarter 2013 earnings by $0.08 per share compared to the prior year period.
Results were also favorably impacted by higher Illinois electric delivery earnings benefiting earnings by $0.08 per share compared to the prior year period.
These higher earnings reflect the timing differences among each year's quarters increased rate base and higher allowed return on equity recognized under formula ratemaking reflecting higher 30-year treasury bond yields.
Several other factors resulted in a negative $0.04 per share net impact on the earnings comparison.
Moving to Page 10.
I would like to provide information to assist you in thinking about earnings for the balance of the year.
As a starting point fourth quarter 2012 earnings from continuing operations were $0.04 per share.
On this page we have listed select items that are expected to impact fourth quarter 2013 earnings compared to the prior year period.
The first item I would like to mention is weather.
Weather had little net impact on earnings in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus normal conditions.
And of course our earnings guidance assumes normal conditions for the fourth quarter of this year.
Second we estimate that Illinois electric delivery earnings recognized under formula ratemaking will increase fourth quarter 2013 earnings by approximately $0.03 per share compared to the prior year period.
This increase is expected to result from timing differences among each year's quarters increased rate base and a higher allowed return on equity reflecting higher 30-year treasury yields.
This is a good place to note that our full year 2013 earnings guidance now incorporates an average 30-year treasury bond yield of 3.44% and therefore a formula allowed return on equity of 9.24%.
Third the earnings comparison is expected to benefit by approximately $0.06 per share from increased Missouri electric and Illinois transmission service rates both effective in January of this year.
Finally we expect results to reflect continued disciplined cost management.
Turning then to Page 11.
We move from earnings to a discussion of our updated 2013 free cash flow guidance.
We calculate free cash flow by starting with our net cash provided by operating activities and subtracting from it our capital expenditures other cash flows from investing activities and dividends.
For 2013 we continued to anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $450 million.
The guidance continues to include merchant divestiture-related cash outflows of approximately $100 million including the $25 million of cash that is currently on Genco's balance sheet.
These divestiture-related cash outflows are more than offset by expected transaction-related cash tax benefits with a present value of approximately $180 million which we expect to substantially realize in 2015.
Moving now to Page 12.
I would like to update you on Ameren Illinois' 2 pending Illinois energy delivery rate cases.
In our gas delivery rate case we have requested a $47 million annual increase based on a 2014 future test year.
The ICC staff has recommended a rate increase of $27 million or $20 million less than our request with a primary difference related to the return on equity level that should be incorporated into rates.
The Illinois industrial energy customers has also filed a return on equity testimony in the case supporting the level that falls between the ICC staff's position and our request.
In addition the Illinois Attorney General and Citizens Utility Board recommended that the ICC use a higher forecast of revenues from gas transportation a lower forecast of employee headcount and various other adjustments.
However they did not file return on equity testimony.
In total the Attorney General Citizens Utility Board adjustments would reduce the rate increase amount by approximately $11 million compared to our request.
The ALJ's recommendation is expected as soon as today or tomorrow.
A final ICC decision is due no later than December 19 of this year with new rates expected to be effective late this year.
Turning to Page 13.
In addition to the pending gas rate case in April of this year we made a required annual electric delivery rate update filing.
Our filing supports a net actual rate decrease reflecting the decrease for the 2012 revenue reconciliation under formula ratemaking partially offset by an increase to reflect 2012 recoverable cost and expected 2013 net plant additions as prescribed by the rate formula.
The ICC staff is recommending a larger net rate decrease.
The ICC ALJs are expected to issue their recommended order soon and the final ICC decision is due no later than December 15 of this year.
New rates are scheduled to take effect in January of next year.
I would note that the midpoint of our 2013 earnings guidance reflects an outcome to this electric delivery case with cost of service adjustments that are similar to those made by the ICC in our 2012 rate orders.
Moving to Page 14 of our presentation.
We plan to provide 2014 earnings guidance and comment on our multi-year earnings outlook when we release fourth quarter 2013 earnings in February.
But here we list some key items to consider as you think about next year.
Ameren Missouri will remain focused on enhancing its regulatory framework.
At this time we continue to have discussions with numerous stakeholders in an effort to develop a specific legislative proposal.
Our focus is on enhancements that will reduce regulatory lag allowing us to increase discretionary investments in our aging Missouri infrastructure advancing our ability to meet the energy needs and expectations of our customers and create jobs.
While the exact timing has not yet been determined and assuming no change in the regulatory framework we expect to file electric service rate case in Missouri in the second half of 2014 with new rates expected to be effective in 2015.
Key drivers of this filing include the need to reflect in rates the approximately $320 million to $370 million investment we are making in a new reactor head for the Callaway Energy Center and enhanced pollution control equipment electrostatic precipitator upgrades at the Labadie Energy Center.
The reactor head replacement a project which has been successfully completed at many U.S.
nuclear generating plants is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2014 when the plant will be shut down for a scheduled refueling and maintenance outage.
The Labadie precipitator upgrades are also expected to be in service by the fourth quarter of next year.
Before I leave the discussion to Missouri I want to mention that 2014 earnings comparisons will benefit from the absence of a 2013 charge of $0.07 per share related to the fuel adjustment clause and presumed a normal weather conditions versus mild year-to-date weather in 2013 which is estimated to have negatively impacted earnings by about $0.02 per share.
For Ameren Illinois electric delivery service 2014 will be another year of performance-based formula ratemaking with the allowed return on equity tied to 30-year treasury yields.
For gas delivery service 2014 will be a year with new rates in effect rates that will be established based on a 2014 future test year.
Further our gas delivery service plans to participate in Illinois' infrastructure surcharge framework beginning next year.
This legislatively enabled framework allows rates to be adjusted monthly between rate cases to reflect investments in qualified gas delivery infrastructure.
As a result of these constructive regulatory frameworks we plan to continue our investment in the electric and gas delivery service enhancements under our Illinois Modernization Action Plan.
At our FERC-regulated transmission business next year is expected to be one of continued investment a reliability project in Ameren Illinois and advancement of the previously discussed Illinois Rivers project.
Finally as Tom discussed we expect parent and other expenses to decline in 2014 compared to 2013 and we plan to continue disciplined cost management across the company.
Turning to the final page of our presentation Number 15 I will summarize.
Third quarter earnings from continuing operations were solid.
We are on target to become a fully rate-regulated utility with our exit from the merchant generation business expected to be completed by year end.
Our regulatory frameworks have improved and we are working to further enhance them especially in Missouri.
We have a well-defined investment plan that is aligned with our regulatory frameworks.
And importantly these investments are needed to meet our customers' energy needs and expectations.
This investment plan is expected to lead to rate base growth of approximately 7% annually over the 2013 to 2017 period a growth rate above the average for regulated peers.
And we look for this rate base growth to result in earnings and dividend growth.
In addition as mentioned we expect the earnings drag of parent company and other costs to decline from the expected 2013 level providing an additional benefit to earnings in 2014 and 2015 beyond that of rate base growth.
Finally Ameren's $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with the yield of approximately 4.4%.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Just weather-normalized sales growth.
I was wondering if you could tell us where you are year-to-date.
I remember you guys are being sort of flattish with your expectations.
Just sort of if there's any update in not just the actuals but just the outlook for -- going forward longer term.
Yes.
Sure Paul.
As it relates to the sales growth I think as we came into this year we talked about I think 0 to maybe even 0.5% however of growth as it related to residential and commercial sales.
And as we sit here today I'd say we're seeing sort of different conditions in Missouri and Illinois.
We're actually seeing that nearly 0.5% sales growth in residential and commercial sales in Missouri despite I would say some spending that -- we've increased spending we've had this year in terms of energy efficiency.
And we've also seen industrial sales growth in Missouri this year of about 0.7%.
So overall we're pleased I'd say with that level of growth.
As I said we are spending quite a bit on energy efficiency which I think longer term will keep that sales growth more muted and down in that 0 to 0.5% range.
Some positives I'd say we're seeing in Missouri.
We have seen this year growth in jobs in both services jobs as well as goods-producing kind of jobs manufacturing jobs.
And I think that's some of what's coming through in terms of improved sales.
So we do expect continued moderate growth but offset by continuing conservation and energy efficiency mitigating some of that sales growth.
But year-to-date happy with that.
In Illinois it's not been -- not quite as positive.
We've seen that residential and commercial sales actually flat to down about 0.5% with commercial in fact being down a little more than residential.
In industrial sales as we've talked about on prior calls down about 6.6% this year.
And that does reflect I'd say some of the conditions we've been seeing in Illinois.
We have seen -- in terms of jobs we have seen goods-producing jobs down though I would say services jobs have been up in Illinois.
But the conditions just don't seem to be as good with some of the industrial sales down.
We've seen declines at places like Caterpillar and heavy equipment and some of the metals areas steel U.S.
Steel things like that.
One important thing to remember though Paul about Illinois is that we do have the formula rates there and there is a -- we got a formulaic ROE but there's also a collar around that plus or minus 50 basis points which means that at the end of the day sales fluctuations positive or negative are bound by that so at most I'd say a $0.025 positive or negative from any kind of sales fluctuations whether they be weather related or load related.
Okay great.
And then just as a follow-up to that.
The ambitious rate growth just how do we think about customer builds? You mentioned energy efficiency that's going to offset obviously some of the impact.
Some of the things you're doing are probably going to increase operational efficiencies.
So you can't just look at that as a flat impact.
But just in general how should we think about how customers' bills will be impacted by this rate base growth given the low sales growth but of course factoring in these operational and energy efficiency things that are going to be counteracting rate base growth rate impacts if you follow me? Yes sure.
I'll talk a little bit where -- about our -- where our rate base growth is.
As you know a lot of our rate base growth is really in transmission and we're also investing in the Modernization Action Plan in Illinois as I discussed.
And with respect to transmission of course the centerpiece of our investment is really in MISO multi-value projects where the benefit of those projects is region-wide and therefore the costs associated with those are spread region-wide and don't necessarily then impact our Illinois customer rates but more rates and cost regionally so those get spread.
As it relates to the Modernization Action Plan some of the investments we're making at Illinois the Illinois -- bills of customers are being impacted at the same time as they are by the rollout of these investments but also by following power prices that have taken place in MISO and have also been impacting customers' bills.
So one of the things we're focused on as it relates to those Illinois bills is really working to keep rates annual rate increases below say a 2.5% level and that's the focus there.
And then in Missouri you're right energy efficiency is -- we're rolling out meaningful energy efficiency programs.
I think it's a well-constructed program for Ameren Missouri and for the state where certainly we're kept whole if you will for the energy efficiency efforts but customers have the opportunity to benefit from those.
And then we're also continuing as we talked about on the call -- focused on disciplined cost control.
And we're focused on lean efforts really across our Missouri operations and across the company to try to keep any rate increases minimized.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the Missouri rate case you plan to file does this imply you're expecting to underearn by a good bit in the Missouri in 2014? Is there a kind of -- how should we quantify the amount of lag that's happening in Missouri right now? Well as you know Michael -- thanks again for joining us by the way and then -- and your comments at the outset.
As it relates to the Missouri rate case it's -- the filing of that rate case next year isn't solely a commentary on earned returns but certainly it's being driven by the things we talked about making meaningful investments in the reactor head replacement as well as in environmental controls for the Labadie plant.
And clearly under Missouri's current framework which does use historical cost what we need to do is we think about meaningful investments that will grow the rate base and being able to earn a fair return on those investments.
We'll need to make a rate case filing at a timely way to make sure we recover those costs and again position ourselves to earn fair returns.
Those are really the drivers.
And then the bulk of the $320 million to $370 million for Callaway and Labadie is that cost you'll incur in '14? So when you think about Union Electric kind of CapEx of directionally $500 million to $600 million that this makes up a large portion of it? Yes it is a large portion there.
Some of those costs -- you don't start those project necessarily in '14 so we've been certainly spending some say towards that reactor head already.
But yes I mean they'll hit largely in '14 and again be in service by the end of '14.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last question in the quarter or maybe more importantly year-to-date for 2013 what was the earnings contribution for the FERC-regulated transmission? Michael I'll see if Doug can dig that out.
I don't have that here in front of me and don't know it off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Or kind of think about what's just embedded in 2013 guidance for it.
Yes I think Doug's going to take a look through it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Paul Zimbardo from UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Paul from Julien's team here.
I wanted to ask about your thoughts on the impacts of the closing of the Paducah processing plant.
How do you see this impacting the outlook for Joppa as well as our prices and demand in the region and also the -- if you could mention the impacts to your financials.
Yes.
Paul this is Marty.
As it relates to the Paducah facility and impact on Joppa obviously the Joppa facility is one that -- is part of the portfolio that we're looking to sell to Dynegy.
In terms of the impacts of the Paducah facility closing on our earnings I don't really have anything to report there.
Overall that -- the merchant business this quarter versus last performed well.
Availability was solid.
Capacity factors were solid at the plants.
I think as we all know power prices were down a little bit down some this year versus last.
But we came into the year pretty well hedged.
So overall the unit continues to perform well.
I can't really comment on how that facility closing would impact future years and certainly expect that that plant to be part of the Dynegy IPH portfolio going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a quick follow-up.
I believe you said you were assuming a 3.44% average for the treasury yields.
Could you quantify what the impact was for the third quarter and roughly the amount that was implied in that fourth quarter guidance? Well the amount that's implied in the fourth quarter guidance Paul really is within that 9.24%.
So when we talk about the 9.24% it's really what we're expecting to be the average over the course of -- over 2013.
And as then we look at the blue chip consensus for next year we see that going up to maybe 3.95% for the 30-year treasuries which would put you at about 9.75%.
In terms of the impact on the ROE you can kind of do the math.
What we've talked about is about 50 basis points is roughly $0.025 so depending upon what's your expectation as you can kind of take a look at what the impact is.
Our next question today is coming from Rajeev Lalwani from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You -- in your prepared remarks you had talked about just growing the dividend.
I was hoping you can walk us through the policy and your expectations going forward there and then a follow-up.
Yes sure.
So there -- as we've discussed in the past what the board looks at is a number of factors.
But first of all getting this deal closed with the sale of the merchant business which as we've talked about we expect the benefit of that to be more stability and certainty in terms of earnings and cash flows going forward.
So that's an important step.
And then looking at growth in the earnings and cash flows of the regulated businesses going forward we've talked about a payout range target to be in the range of 55% to 70% of our regulated earnings.
And today we're at the upper end of that range with our $1.60 earnings.
But as we do grow the earnings from the regulated business and we believe we have a good plan to do so and as we grow those earnings and cash flows aspire to be able to then grow the dividend and as that payout comes down into that range of 55% to 70% that I discussed.
Research Division</strong> Are you expecting not to raise the dividend until you get to around the midpoint? No that was not my statement at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question.
I think you noted that earnings for this year at the Illinois utilities don't reflect the SB 9 impact.
Is that accurate? Well what the earnings reflect -- I guess I'm trying -- not following in terms of what you mean by it doesn't reflect.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess there are some benefits around the changes with the legislation earlier this year and trying to figure out if that's incorporated in your earnings for this year of if that's more of a next year event just given timing.
No I think that the -- to the extent that the legislature clarified its views on the way the Illinois formula [indiscernible] we've actually formulated that into our 2013 earnings expectations.
So it's our expectation that the Illinois Commerce Commission as they rule on 2013 reconciliation will I guess rule in line with the legislature's intent and financing this last piece of legislation.
So that is reflected in our 2013 earnings.
We haven't done anything in terms of going back in time and picking up any kind of benefit for prior years that may come through appeals of the commission's rulings for prior years.
But we did impact -- we did update 2013 earnings for -- to reflect the provisions of that legislation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of just regulatory lag in Illinois can you just talk about where you expect that to be going forward or if there shouldn't be any lag with the changes made? No really shouldn't be any lag.
When you think about the formulaic rates going forward there really shouldn't be any lag.
The legislation we believe is pretty prescriptive in terms of the costs that are picked up.
Earlier this year we did lay out certain costs that were outside of the formulaic ratemaking that would continue to be a drag but for continuing efforts to reduce those costs and we laid some of those costs out and we also identified those ones which we expected to go away over time.
And then as it relates to the gas portion of the Illinois business we have filed a rate case as we discussed on the call with the 2014 forward test year.
And that forward test year is intended to minimize lag and some underearnings that we're experiencing this year in the gas business.
But with the updated rates reflecting the 2014 cost and investments that will minimize the lag next year.
And then we also have the ability now with the legislation in the gas portion of the business to update rates monthly for incremental investments in our infrastructure that are beyond those reflected in the forward test year.
So that also will help going forward as we deploy capital in the gas portion of the business to make sure we have an opportunity to earn a fair return there.
Then the other portion of the Illinois business is -- continues to be transmission where we still have transmission that's FERC-regulated transmission in the Ameren Illinois business and of course we have formula rates there.
And again don't experience lag as it relates to the transmission business.
So all in all I would say in Illinois very little in terms of ongoing regulatory lag.
Our next question today is coming from Ashar Khan from Visium.
If I can just go over these factors that you pointed out Marty.
So if I take the midpoint of the guidance for this year which is I guess now $2.05 you kind of mentioned there is like $0.07 that doesn't come in because of the [indiscernible] more normal so a more normalized number would be like $2.15 if I add those $0.10 back.
And then you were saying that the parent and other should go from a negative $0.20 to somewhere between $0.10 and $0.15.
So say now you pick up on the $0.07 midpoint of that so you're starting like at $2.22 normalized.
And on top of that we should add rate base growth for the distribution and transmission business.
Am I doing my math right? Yes all of your math is correct.
So those are pieces of information provided.
So then the midpoint is as you pointed out is $2.05 and our range is $2 to $2.10.
I'd say as we sit here today we feel good about being maybe even a couple of cents into the top half of that range.
So your $2.05 is a good starting point and you're right we've had $0.07 of negative impact this year one time from the FAC.
And weather one number -- you mentioned $0.03 weather.
I think year-to-date it's probably $0.02 of negative weather so it's -- you're probably talking about $0.09 there to add back which you did appropriately.
And you're absolutely right we expect to reduce those parent company other costs which we estimate to be about $0.20 for this year down to that range of $0.10 to $0.15 next year.
So the things you're adding back are correct.
Our next question is coming from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Operator I think Paul was already on and off.
No I'm here.
I'm sorry.
Just -- there was this an independent market monitor report from MISO that companies have been talking about in terms of potential impact on reliability and the reserve margin decrease.
And rather -- I guess under certain circumstances rather sort of dramatic decrease perhaps in reserve margin that has been discussed.
And I was just thinking how you guys see that.
I'm sure you guys have reviewed it.
Obviously for Illinois the impact is a little bit different since you don't have generation.
But just sort of how you see that in terms of Missouri and just any thoughts you have on that and how that may or may not be in your rate base growth forecast right now if you follow me in terms of potential resolution of that or if you -- I don't know.
Any comments you have on that I would be interested in.
Yes Paul I think as it relates to the issue you're referring to we've had a long-standing position.
We do believe that within MISO we do need to get beyond this sort of annual capacity construct that really more of -- multi-year longer-term price signals are appropriate to incentivize investment and make sure that we do have good reserve margins within MISO.
It really comes down to being important we believe from a reliability standpoint.
So our positions on those factors haven't changed over time.
In terms of our Missouri operations we obviously operate a good strong portfolio of assets that are performing well.
And as we think -- longer term as you've seen in our 5-year investment plans right now I don't have anything in there in terms of meaningful change in our generation mix.
But as we think longer term we certainly do have an aging fleet of generating units and we'll monitor all conditions capacity price conditions and as well as the IRP process in Missouri which as we have discussed before I think it's late next year.
We will file another IRP with the Missouri Public Service Commission and at that time I think we'll lay out our thinking about the options we have around our portfolio long term.
Okay.
But I mean I guess just wanted just a more general comment in terms of this potential -- rather remarkable reserve margin potential that under certain circumstances could theoretically show up.
Obviously you guys are -- feel reliability is important.
It's not clear to me exactly where -- what service territory would be impacted or who would be deficient.
But I'm just sort of wondering if there's any -- if you feel that there's any issue that requires sort of a more rapid response.
Well we don't.
As it relates to Missouri which I guess for your question we don't see a deficiency in our Missouri resources.
I mean we do have adequate resources in our Missouri business to meet our Missouri load obligations.
So we don't see anything there.
I think the -- one of the things we said Paul honestly is that with the reserve margins today we believe are high within MISO.
At what point we get to sort of critical conditions is uncertain.
We've certainly looked at what's been put forward by the market monitor and the committees that have reported out to MISO.
And certainly those are valid concerns that are being raised.
And so we do think it's important that MISO take action to -- with regard to its capacity construct and move as I've said earlier into having a multi-year capacity construct.
But as it relates to Missouri I certainly don't see any kind of condition of emergency or urgency as it relates to our resources there.
Okay.
What about Illinois? I mean I know that you're not responsible for but just in general do you see that as a -- that Zone 4 is being problematic? And I guess does that maybe lead to maybe additional transmission issues or potential investments or just any thoughts there? Well we're obviously -- we're investing a lot in transmission.
I don't know if it will lead to incremental transmission in the near term.
But our concerns about the capacity market and the -- our continued belief that it's important from a reliability standpoint to have a multi-year capacity construct does get to Illinois and making sure that in Illinois where it is a deregulated market that the right price signals are sent over time to incentivize investment in generation so that there are resources available as Illinois goes out to -- and customers in Illinois go out to procure the power and capacity that they need.
So again I'm -- Paul I'm not by any means saying that there's an emergency situation necessarily.
But I think the points that are being raised at MISO are the right points to debate and consider as we think about a capacity construct going forward and the need for reliability in Illinois and throughout MISO.
Our next question today is coming from Bill Appicelli from Nexus Asset Management.
Just had a question about the underlying O&amp;M growth that you've seen sort of for this year.
I know there are some lumpy items but what do you guys see sort of going forward at the utilities in terms of maybe O&amp;M growth rate or -- you've got this comment about continued discipline on cost management.
So is there a target in mind or what are your thoughts around that? Yes.
We haven't really -- Bill thanks for the question.
We haven't really communicated I'd say a target.
Our goal is as we've said repeatedly is to in Missouri for example is to keep our earned returns very close as close as we can to our allowed returns and to really try to minimize that impacts of regulatory lag.
And so as I said earlier we continue to look for ways to streamline our operations to become more efficient.
I mentioned our lean efforts which we believe over time will produce savings but really haven't communicated I'd say any specific targets or expectations.
In Illinois we continue to be focused on running efficient lean operations there as well.
Earlier the question came up about customer bills and we are investing and improving the infrastructure in Illinois for the benefit of our customers it's creating jobs as well.
But one of the things we are doing is continuing to work to be efficient in terms of our operations and maintenance spending as we roll out those investments to again minimize the overall impact on our customers' bills.
So really across the operations we're looking to operate in a very disciplined way.
Okay.
And then I guess just at the parent I know outside of the refinancing of the parent debt next year that will drive some of the cost savings.
What are the other areas that are -- you guys are focused on to reduce the parent drag? Yes.
So there were -- I talked earlier in the year about as much as $30 million or so of costs that were G&amp;A costs if you will that had been allocated over time to the merchant business.
A significant amount of those are really direct costs costs that we were incurring sort of at a parent level that were directly associated with the merchant businesses.
So as we get to closure there those costs -- those direct support costs will be eliminated.
And then to the extent that there were other costs that were being allocated we've had significant efforts underway over the past several months to identify ways to be able to eliminate those costs as well.
And that progress -- that work has been going very smoothly and very well.
So those targets that we talked about getting $0.20 down to $0.10 to $0.15 next year we feel very good about.
And then as we look to '15 what we talked about on this call is getting those costs down even lower as those costs are reduced and rationalized.
We get the full year benefit of the refinancing next year.
And I've said before that we expect that we might be able to get those -- we'd be able to get those costs not might -- we'd be able to get those costs down under $0.10 in the 2015 timeframe.
Okay.
And then just on the refinancing do you expect to refinance the full $425 million or would there potentially be a lesser amount that's refinanced or -- in terms of reducing the principal? That's under consideration.
We think that today if you look at today's market that you'll be able to refinance that 8.875% debt.
Today maybe at around the 2.5% kind of mark.
So favorable conditions as we sit here today and big opportunity for interest savings.
What amount of that we would do sort of on a longer-term versus a short-term refinancing is under consideration and we'll let you know when we've got a specific view on that.
But we do have -- as you know we have the full capacity under our credit facilities available to us today.
We've got no borrowings under those.
So we have the flexibility with respect to that $425 million to do some of that long term and some of that on a short-term basis as well.
Our final question today will be a follow-up from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two items one on O&amp;M.
Can you just walk us through how the Callaway outage schedules impact O&amp;M? I think impacted last year and then will -- this year and then what the impact is in 2014? Does that get capitalized or is that all kind of flowing through and therefore you see kind of some abnormal trends rather than just steady year-over-year changes in O&amp;M? Yes Michael that's true.
I know that the accounting practices vary across the industry.
But we do expense the full cost of the operations and maintenance expenses for the Callaway refueling in the period that that outage occurs.
So we had the full Callaway refuel expenses expensed earlier this year.
So we did have a refueling in the spring of this year.
The next one is I sort of referred to earlier on the call is in the fall of 2014.
We certainly have significant capital expenditures at that time that I mentioned.
We also have the refueling and maintenance outage O&amp;M costs that we will incur there at the end of 2014.
And then 2015 we have no scheduled refueling and maintenance outage.
So 2015 wouldn't have any refueling and maintenance outage costs in it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So will the -- because it's a bigger or kind of more complex outage that's happening in the fall of 2014 because you're doing the extensive capital work will the O&amp;M piece of that outage be different than a normal refueling outage? Or will some of it get capitalized some will be O&amp;M? Like I'm just trying to think about as you start to give drivers for 2014 how the Callaway refueling schedule will impact things.
Yes.
So Michael I think sitting here today we're not giving out our 2014 guidance and I'll give more specificity when we do along those -- along the Callaway outage.
However I don't believe that the 2014 O&amp;M costs are expected to be materially different than the 2013 cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then those -- when you did the 2013 cost what was the cost of that outage that happened in the spring? Well it'll -- this is Doug.
It's in the Q.
I don't have it precisely.
Maybe we can...
We'll try to dig that one out for you too Michael.
But as Doug said it's in the -- we did disclose that in the...
When the Q is filed it will be clearly in there.
Mr.
Fischer there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you all for participating in this call.
Let me -- excuse me let me remind you again that this call is available for 1 year on our website.
You may also call the contacts listed on the release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fisher or my associate Matt Thayer.
Media should call Joe Mellencamp.
Our contact numbers are on the news release we issued today.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a good day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to Ameren Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Douglas Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fisher Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Tom Voss our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Warner Baxter our President; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast.
And redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted a presentation on our website that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to page two of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-Looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Tom will begin this call with a review of 2013 earnings and accomplishments.
Warner will follow with a discussion of our plans for executing on our strategy and our earnings growth outlook.
Marty will conclude with discussions of 2013 financial results 2014 guidance 2015 earnings drivers and other financial matters.
We will then open the line for questions.
Before Tom begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a diluted continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here's Tom who will begin on page four of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced earnings for 2013 of $2.10 per share compared to $2.13 per share for 2012.
On a weather-normalized basis 2013 results improved over the prior year's results reflecting increased rates for Missouri electric and Illinois transmission service and increased Illinois electric delivery service earnings under formula ratemaking.
The increase in weather-normalized earnings was achieved despite several negative impacts on year-over-year earnings comparison.
These negative impacts included 2013 nuclear refueling outage expenses compared to no refueling outage in 2012; two 2013 charges related to regulatory decisions and the absence in 2013 of a benefit from 2012 regulatory decision.
Marty will provide further details on earnings in a few minutes.
Moving to page five.
Last year was a pivotal one in the history of Ameren and I would like to highlight some of our key 2013 accomplishments.
First and foremost we exited our merchant generation business to focus exclusively on strengthening and growing our rate regulated utilities.
As we will highlight in a moment we are very excited about our prospects with these businesses with divestiture of our Ameren Energy Resources business to an affiliate of Dynegy was completed in early December.
Further we closed the sale of our remaining operating merchant facilities three gas-fired energy centers to an affiliate of Rockland Capital last month.
The second major accomplishment was State of Illinois' enactment of legislation for which we advocated that supports our plans to invest in energy delivery infrastructure for the benefit of our customers and create jobs.
This included one law that constructively clarified certain elements of electric delivery formula ratemaking and the second law that established the framework for timely gas delivery rate adjustments for qualified infrastructure investments.
Third Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois attained a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the Illinois Congress Commission from portions of it's approximately $1.1 billion Illinois Rivers transmission project in 2013.
And just yesterday the ICC issued a constructive order on rehearing granting a certificate for all remaining portions of the project.
Illinois Rivers is our largest current investment project and is a cornerstone of our plan to grow FERC-regulated investments.
Fourth Ameren Illinois received a December order from ICC authorizing increased gas delivery service rates that reflect planned investments that will enhance safety and service to customers.
Fifth accomplishment of note was Ameren Missouri's successful implementation of the state's most expensive energy efficiency plan.
This plan includes the range of programs and provides timely recovery of associated cost as well as the opportunity for us to earn the performance incentive to be collected after completion of the three year plan.
Finally 2013 was another year of strong operating performance at our utilities as well as disciplined cost management.
Combining Missouri and Illinois electric distribution reliability as measured by the number of interruptions per customer served state a company record for the third year in a row and Missouri baseload energy center performance remained solid with equivalent availability of 83%.
I believe each of these accomplishments positions us well to execute our strategy; a strategy that we believe will deliver superior long term value for our customers and shareholders in the future.
Speaking of the future earlier this week we announced that I will retire from Ameren on July 1 of this year.
In connection with my upcoming retirement our Board named Warner Baxter President of Ameren and also elected him to the Board.
On April 24 Warner will become CEO and on July 1 he is expected to be named Chairman.
Warner joined Ameren in 1995 and he was promoted to Executive Vice President and CFO in 2003.
Since 2009 Warner has served as President and CEO of our largest subsidiary Ameren Missouri and remains so until successor's name.
I know that many of you already know Warner and share my belief that he is focused on providing value for both our shareholders and customers.
Moving to page seven of our presentation I will now turn the call over to Warner.
Thanks Tom and let me begin by saying that I'm just very humble and honoured to follow you as the leader of Ameren.
I have a few more comments to add at the end of our call but I want to begin this discussion by saying that I'm very excited about the company's future.
I'm excited because over the last several years our entire Ameren team has positioned itself to execute a solid growth strategy that I believe will deliver superior long term value to our customers and superior returns to our shareholders.
This is the same strategy that we have outlined to you previously.
We are committed to successfully executing that strategy in years ahead.
In particularly we remained committed to investing and operating our regulated businesses in a manner consistent with our existing and regulatory frameworks.
As a result 2014 will be another year of optimizing our operating and capital spending within these regulatory frameworks including managing costs in a disciplined manner.
It will also be another year of allocating increasing amounts of discretionary capital into businesses operating under constructive regulatory frameworks.
Ameren Illinois will continue to invest in electric and gas delivery service enhancements and our Illinois monetization action plan.
In addition Ameren Illinois is focused on continued investment in local transmission reliability projects that benefit from FERC's formulaic ratemaking and allow return on investment.
These investments are made possible by the constructive regulatory frameworks in place for these businesses.
We're also committed to pursuing rate increases when needed.
That's why this year in Missouri plans to file an electric rate increase request to recover operating costs including higher net fuel costs and investments in energy infrastructure made for the benefit of our customers.
These investments include two significant capital projects replacement of the reactor head at our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center and upgrades to the electrostatic precipitators in our coal-fired Labadie energy center.
Both projects were scheduled to be completed in fourth quarter of this year.
The timing of the rate request is designed to minimize as much as possible under the existing Missouri regulatory framework the regulatory life on these important projects.
Our need to file this rate increase request squarely contradicts the February 12 filing by Noranda Aluminum with the Missouri of Pubic Service Commission alleging that the Ameren Missouri is over-earning and then its rates should be reduced.
Interestingly on the same day Noranda also filed with the commission a request that it's electric rates to be reduced outside of a traditional rate case asking that a significant portion of our cost to serve them is shifted to our other customers for 10 years.
We will vigorously appose these Noranda filings and look forward to defending our position before the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Moving onto another element of our strategy.
This year we will continue our work to enhance regulatory frameworks.
In Missouri we have been engaged with customers legislators state officials and other stakeholders to build support for legislation that will reduce regulatory lag allowing us to increase discretionary investments in our aging Missouri energy infrastructure to enhance customer service and reliability and create jobs.
Yesterday Senate Bill 909 was filed.
The primary objective of this bill is to modernize Missouri's regulatory framework to support investment in aging energy infrastructure to all the investor-owned utilities in the state.
You should note this bill is different from the bill that was filed last year.
After numerous discussions with key stakeholders after last year's session it was determined that a more incremental approach to modernising Missouri's regulatory framework was appropriate.
As a result this bill is targeted to address the regulatory lag associated with depreciation and the cost of capital for qualifying energy infrastructure investments placement service between rate cases.
This bill will not allow interim adjustments in customers' rates between rate cases but it will allow utilities to differ and to cover the depreciation and cost of capital associated with infrastructure investments actually serving customers in the next rate case.
Robust consumer protections are included in the bill including the 1% rate cap for every year between rate cases.
The lead sponsor of this bill is Senator Parson and the bill's co-sponsor is Senator Kehoe.
We appreciate Senator Parson's and Senator Kehoe's leadership on this important energy policy initiative for state of Missouri.
A third element of our strategy is to develop and execute on rate regulated opportunities for investments that benefit our customers create jobs and grow rate base and earnings.
Our ability to successfully execute this element of our strategy is best executed by the multi-value Illinois Rivers transmission project.
As Tom mentioned just yesterday the ICC issued a constructive order on the hearing for this project granting the certificate of public convenience and necessity for all portions of the project.
It was a certificate that not been previously granted.
Substation construction is already underway and line construction is expected to begin later this year.
Looking ahead our planning efforts extend well beyond the next several years.
We are actively focused on selecting and developing other investment projects in all our regulated businesses to provide customers with safe reliable and environmentally responsible service not just for the near term but over the coming decade.
Turning now to page eight of our presentation.
Clearly outlined how we were investing in a manner consistent with our strategy.
On the top of this page we list our rate regulated business by jurisdiction and summarized our allowed rates return on equity speed of cost recovery and forecasted annual rate base growth.
On the bottom half of the slide we show our plans to grow rate base by a projected 6% compound annual rate from year end of 2013 to 2014.
Importantly you should note that we are allocating significant and growing amounts of discretionary capital to our FERC-regulated electric transmission businesses and Illinois deliverable utilities as these operate under formulaic and constructive regulatory frameworks.
We have a solid list of transmission projects which are projected to increase our FERC-regulated transmission rate base by approximately 28% compounded annually over this period.
In addition our Illinois Modernization Action Plan investments are expected to contribute to projected Illinois electric and gas delivery compound annual rate base growth of 5% and 7% respectively.
Our Missouri rate base is expected to grow at a slower 2% compound annual rate.
Over the last several years the regulatory framework in Missouri has improved especially in terms of addressing regulatory lag associated with significant and volatile operating costs.
However rate of progress must be made to improve the framework to support investment in our aging energy infrastructure.
Further regulatory enhancement in Missouri would allow us to develop a pipeline of future Missouri investment opportunities that enhanced customer service and reliability and increased rate base growth.
This is the primary driver behind the legislation that was filed yesterday and discussed a moment ago.
As the rate-regulated utility business we expect our planned rate base growth will drive earnings growth.
In addition we expect an increase in the FERC-regulated piece of the rate base pie from 7% at year end 2013 to 18% by year end 2018 will improve our jurisdictional diversity in our blended earn return on rate base.
Finally parent and other expenses are expected to decline in 2014 and in 2015 for reasons Marty will discuss further enhancing earnings in these years.
Moving now to page nine we project a continued execution of our strategy will drive strong earnings growth in 2014 as well as over the next five years.
We expect 2014 earnings per share to be in the range of $2.25 per share to $2.45 per share.
A significant advance from the $2.10 per share earned last year.
Marty will discuss the specific drivers of this 2014 earnings growth in a few minutes.
Further we expect earnings per share to grow at a 7% to 10% compound annual rate from 2013 to 2018 rate better than the expected average of our regulated peers.
This five-year outlook accommodates a range of treasury rate sales growth spending level and regulatory developments.
I would note that assuming treasury rates are flat with current levels over the period and all other assumptions are unchanged our five-year earnings growth rate will fall slightly below the midpoint of our expected range.
Finally we inspired to grow the dividend as earnings grow and expect our dividend payout to be between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
Like Tom I am pleased with the progress we have made to-date in implementing our strategy.
And I firmly believe the company is well positioned to deliver superior value to our customers and shareholders as we continue to execute that strategy.
Now before I turn the call over to Marty I want to express my appreciation for the patience from our customers who experienced power outages last evening and those still without power this morning.
Very storm with high winds roared to our service territory last evening and brought down trees and power lines.
Our crews worked throughout the night and this morning we had approximately 7 000 customers without power.
We will have nearly all customers back on by the end of the day.
And a special thanks to all of our dedicated co-workers who worked safely and diligently to restore power to our customers.
I'll now turn the call over to Marty.
Thank you Warner.
Good morning everyone.
Turning now to page 11 of our presentation.
Today we did report earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $0.19 per share compared to $0.05 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
There were several key drivers on the $0.14 per share earnings improvement.
First increased rates for Missouri electric and Illinois transmission service both effective in January of 2013 at a combined positive effect of $0.05 per share.
Second higher Illinois electric delivery earnings recognized under formula ratemaking improved earnings by $0.04 per share compared to the year ago quarter.
This improvement reflect the timing differences among each year's quarters increased rate base and the higher allowed return on equity as a result of higher 30-year treasury bond yields.
Third winter weather was colder in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 when weather was closer to normal.
This colder weather increased earnings by an estimated $0.04 per share compared to the prior year period.
Fourth an increase in weather-normalized electric and gas sales volumes boosted the earnings comparison by $0.03 per share.
These positive factors will partially offset by a fourth quarter 2013 charge of $0.04 per share related to the ICC's disallowance of certain debt redemption cost in December electric and gas delivery rate orders.
Moving to page 12 in the discussion of full-year 2013 results.
As Tom previously mentioned earnings for 2013 were $2.10 per share compared to $2.13 per share for 2012.
However on a weather-normalized basis result increased to approximately $2.08 per share in 2013 from approximately $2.04 per share in 2012.
This non-GAAP comparison reflected the fact that earnings for both years were boosted by abnormal weather in the amounts noted on this page.
Factors favourably affecting the comparison of 2013 earnings to prior year results included previously mentioned Missouri electric and Illinois transmission rate increases which lifted earnings by a combined $0.29 per share.
These January 2013 rate increases provided recovery of and returns on infrastructure investments made to serve customers.
In addition higher Illinois electric delivery earnings recognized under formula ratemaking boosted results by $0.06 per share reflecting infrastructure investment a higher allowed return on equity due to higher 30-year treasury yields and the absence in 2013 of 2012 contribution required to implement formula ratemaking.
The increase in weather-normalized earnings for 2013 as compared to 2012 was achieved despite several notable drags on the comparison.
These drags included 2013 nuclear refueling outage expenses for the Callaway Energy Center of $0.10 per share compared to 2012 when there was no refueling outage and two 2013 charges in the absence of the 2012 benefit are related to regulatory decisions which had a combined negative effect of $0.18 per share.
Turning now to page 13 as Warner mentioned we expect 2014 earnings to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.45 per share.
Factors expected to positively impact 2014 earnings compared to 2013 include the absence of the previously discussed 2013 charges related to regulatory decisions.
In addition Illinois electric delivery earnings are expected to increase under formula ratemaking driven by planned investments to provide enhanced service to customers and result in rate base growth as well as the higher allowed return due to expected higher treasury yield.
We estimate Ameren Illinois 2014 year-end electric delivery rate base to be approximately $2.2 billion.
Further the 2014 formula midpoint allowed return on equity is estimated to be 9.9% which incorporates a forecasted 2014 average 30-year treasury yield of 4.1% compared with the 2013 average yield of 3.45%.
The 2014 treasury yield forecast was based on the Blue Chip consensus estimate as of February 1 2014.
The year-over-year earnings comparison will benefit from an increase in Illinois gas delivery rates that became effective at the beginning of this year.
We also expect higher transmission earnings form Ameren Illinois and ATXI under forward-looking formula FERC ratemaking reflecting our growing investments in these businesses.
The combined Ameren Illinois and ATXI average transmission rate base has projected to grow to approximately $900 million up from approximately $600 million in 2013.
Another driver of expected 2014 earnings growth compared to 2013 is a decline in parent company and other cost.
We project that these costs will decline to approximately $0.10 per share in 2014 due to refinancing of an 8.875% parent company debt issue that matures in May and a reduction of operating cost.
Turning now to page 14.
These expected positive factors are projected to be partially offset by a return in normal weather reducing earnings by an estimate of $0.02 per share.
In addition we expect weather-normalized electric sales volumes to decline in both Missouri and Illinois compared to 2013 reflecting the effects of our energy efficiency plans in both states and the ongoing phase out for incandescent light bulbs and the replacement with more energy efficient lighting alternatives.
It's important to note that the earnings impact of reduced Missouri electric sales volumes due to our energy efficiency programs will be mitigated by revenue recovery based on programs under our Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act plan.
Further the earnings impact of lower electric sales volumes in Illinois is limited by the 50 basis point colour around the allowed ROE.
Other factors expected to negatively effect 2014 earnings compared to 2013 include increases in other operations and maintenance depreciation and property tax expenses for Missouri and Illinois gas delivery service.
Our 2014 earnings guidance incorporates an effective consolidated income tax rate of approximately 38.5%.
Finally the earnings guidance incorporates average basic common shares of $242.6 million unchanged from the prior year level.
Turning to page 15 of our presentation I would like to discuss 2015 earnings drivers.
Factors expected to positively impact next year's earnings include new Missouri electric rates effective in mid-2015.
In addition Illinois electric delivery earnings are expected to increase under formula ratemaking as a result of rate base growth and a higher allowed ROE due to a forecasted increase in 30-year treasury bond yields.
Ameren Illinois and ATXI transmission earnings are also expected to increase reflecting FERC formula ratemaking and rate base growth.
Further the earnings comparison should be positively affected by the absence of the Callaway Energy Center nuclear refueling outage and related expenses since no refueling outage is scheduled for 2015.
Finally we expect a further decline in parent and other cost reflecting a full year's benefit from the 2014 refinancing of parent company debt.
These expected positive factors are projected to be partially offset by increased Missouri operations and maintenance expenses excluding the benefit of no refueling outage as well as increased Missouri depreciation property tax and interest cost.
Before we conclude our discussion of our earnings outlook I'll remind you that our 2014 guidance as well as the 2013 through 2018 earnings growth expectations Warner discussed are subject to the risks and uncertainty outlined or referred to in the forward-looking statement section of today's press release and our SEC filings.
Moving now to page 16.
Here we provide our 2014 cash flow guidance.
As shown on this page we calculate free cash flow by starting with our cash flows from operating activities subtracting from our capital expenditures adding other cash flows from investing activities and subtracting dividends.
For 2014 we anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $800 million.
On the right side of the page we provide a breakdown of our $1.825 billion of planned 2014 capital expenditures including substantial investments in businesses which operate under constructive regulatory frameworks.
FERC-regulated transmission and Illinois electric and gas delivery service.
I call your attention to the two footnotes on this page.
First the other cash flows from investing activities includes approximately $150 million of cash proceeds in the previously mentioned January 2014 sales of three merchant gas-fired energy centers.
These cash proceeds are equal to Ameren's 2013 put option related payments to a former affiliate that was included in the divestiture of the Ameren Energy Resources business to Dynegy as well as sell related cost.
Second the dollar amount of dividend shown on this page incorporates the current common dividend rate.
Of course the amount and timing of common dividends are considered by Ameren's Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
In terms of financing we plan to fund the 2014 negative free cash flow with a mix of long-term and short-term borrowings.
Turning to page 17 I would like to provide an overview of our $8.3 billion of planned regulated capital expenditures for the 2014 through 2018 period.
The expected funding sources for these infrastructure investments are listed on this page.
In particular we expect to benefit from approximately $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion of changes in differed tax and tax assets over this five-year period.
The expected changes in differed taxes are driven primarily by our planned capital expenditures.
The tax assets include at year end 2013 approximately $600 million consisting of federal and state net operating loss carry-forwards federal and state income tax credit carry-forwards and expected income tax refunds and state tax over payments.
Approximately $450 million of this total is driven by historical merchant generation related tax losses.
These tax assets are expected to be realized into 2016.
As I mentioned earlier we do not expect to issue any additional common shares in 2014.
Should we decide to issue additional equity at some point over this five-year period we would expect to do so by issuing new shares for dividend re-investments in 401-K plans.
We’re committed to funding our capital expenditures in a manner that maintains solid credit metrics and this is reflected in our capitalization target of around 50% equity.
Turning to Page [18] I will summarize well 2013 earnings per share declined on a reported basis they improved on a weather-normalized basis despite several negative impacts on the year-over-year comparison.
We’ve completed our exit from the merchant generation business and are focused exclusively on strengthening and growing our rate-regulated utilities.
We have a well-defined strategic plan that is aligned with our regulatory frameworks and designed to enhance customer service and reliability.
Our investment plan coupled with disciplined cost control is expected to lead the solid earnings per share growth in 2014 and we expect earnings per share to grow at a 7% to 10% compound annual rate from 2013 to 2018 a rate better than we expected average of our regulated peers.
Further aiming $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with the yield of approximately 4.1%.
Finally we aspire to grow our dividend as earnings grow and expect our dividend payout ratio to be between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite for questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting our question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Please with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Julien.
So first quick question kind of a high level one.
Can you perhaps more precisely address the disproportion at EPS growth versus the prior rate base CAGR you’ve been talking about? Can you kind of delineate the drivers of that? What are trying to reconcile the rate base growth to what? To your EPS CAGR.
Sure.
How would you guess the 10% if you will? Yeah sure Julien.
I think we provided these building blocks in the past and I’ll go through them again.
I mean the rate base growth is the foundation.
But then when you look at some of these one-items that I prefer or the regulatory impacts this past year these are the charges that I outlined.
The fuel adjustment cost charge that we had the ICC redemption cost disallowance.
You back out some of those you build up your 2014 earnings then you can talk about and you look that reduction and compare other cost where we had about if you look at the income statement or look in the staff pages on the other.
We had about $0.18 of drag this past year from those other costs which as I said on the call we expect to get down to about $0.10 in 2014 and then you can realize some further savings into 2015.
Then you think about where our rate base growth is going as we transition our rate base to a heavier emphasis on FERC-regulated transmission.
You again and get a blended average return that's even higher and those are really the building blocks that get you up into that 7% to 10% range.
And then add on top of that whatever you may for expected rising 30-year treasury yields over that period of time.
But Julien those are the building blocks we’ve been providing and I think that 7% to 10% growth range that we’ve given is very much in alignment with the building blocks that we provided.
Great.
And perhaps if you could elaborate a little bit more about the Illinois gas opportunity it seems as if you’ve driven of the CAGR a little bit from your last slide deck as best I can tell can.
You talk about the timing on timing and growth out of that.
And whether that was incorporated within your current CAGR? It really is incorporated within that current CAGR to the extent that in this five-year period we plan to enhance the investment in the gas portion of our business.
If you do look at the CapEx that we historically have provided which is 13 to 17 and then CapEx in this period 14 to 18.
The overall I would say amount of capital expenditures of those five-year periods are about the same.
But as you note there's been a bit added to the gas portion of the business and that really does reflect what we talked about last year that to the extent that we had a favorable legislation passed in Illinois it would serve as the basis to invest more in that area for safety and reliability and that's been added to the mix.
Great.
And then sorry to keep going here but last quick question on refining the debt here what's kind of your thought process if you will in terms of size and I suppose how does that fit into your financing plan what's your target capitalization if you can kind of remind us again as well? Yes sure so maybe I’ll talk about that overall.
We had in one of our slides target capitalization of around 50%.
And on slide 16 of our materials we laid out our free cash flow for the year.
This year we’ve got negative free cash flow of about $800 million that's forecast.
In terms of debt maturities Julien I think the one you're referring to is the Ameren long-term debt issue of $425 million that comes due in May and provides us with a nice refinancing opportunity.
We’ve also got a maturity in Missouri a little over $100 million and in January we actually did move to redeem some debt at Ameren Illinois of about $160 million.
So when you add those things together that's total funding needs of about $1.5 billion.
We plan to tackle that with a couple of debt offerings in Illinois this year which will -- we estimate will total about $600 million of long-term debt financings.
We're planning the Missouri financing of about $350 million.
And then with respect to the Ameren parent both for the debt maturity as well as some of the funding that Ameren will be providing to ATXI as it begins to build its transmission project the Illinois Rivers project we plan at Ameren Corp.
to have a mix of long-term and short-term borrowings.
At this point we're expecting a long-term offering that's something less than the current amount of the long-term debt that's out of Ameren Corp.
So something less than that $425 million.
Julien as you think about the capital expenditures that we show on slide 16 and we think about the where we’re going to issue that long-term debt as I said of $600 million at Ameren Illinois $350 million at Missouri.
When we look at the capital expenditure it’s pretty clear obviously that we have about $760 million in Ameren Missouri.
At Ameren Illinois we have $530 million for the energy delivery businesses but it's also important to remember that a good portion of our transmission build is also within Ameren Illinois.
So when you break that $510 million of FERC transmission what you find is about -- in addition to the $530 million I guess overall at Ameren Illinois we've got about $800 million of capital expenditures at Ameren Illinois.
So when you think about where we're issuing that debt it’s really at Ameren Illinois and Ameren Missouri for the most part of this coming year.
There at the end of 2013 our equity ratios and the cap structures when you get the 10-K and you look at that it was 53% or north or 53% both of those legal entities.
So what will happen is we issue some of these debt is those equity ratios will trend down somewhat into the approximately 51% kind of range.
And then overall at Ameren as you saw on our stats page we’re a little above 50% in terms of our equity content right now.
I would expect that as we fund ATX and build that out we should slip maybe a little below the 50% but then trend back to our target ratio over time.
Great.
Thank you.
Very thorough.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the promotion and the retirement guys? Thank you Paul.
I wanted to touch base with you on just the EPS growth rate on slide 15 and make sure I sort of understand this.
The treasury yield of 4.5% in 2015 is there any sensitivity you can give us in terms of what the -- what that -- if we don't get interest rate sensitivity in terms of what your growth rate might be all things being equal? Paul you're looking at particular slide 15 in 2015 earnings are just kind of overall-- Whatever you can give us.
You know I’m saying I realize there a lot of moving parts.
Yeah.
What we try to provide in terms of the longer-term guidance was just sort of a benchmark or an anchor point if you will.
In Warner’s talking points one of the things he said is that all of the things being equal in our plan if treasury rates were to stay constant we would expect to deliver an earnings growth rates that was slightly below the midpoint of the range that we provide of 7% to 10%.
It’s not necessarily our belief that treasury yields are going to stay at the current levels but wanted to provide that as a bit of an anchor point.
Otherwise within that 7% to 10% growth Paul as we talked about we think it accommodates a range of treasury rate outcomes if you will or sales growth levels spending levels whether the capital or O&amp;M and regulatory developments.
We feel like again Paul the building blocks are the ones they laid out earlier.
It’s the rate base growth it’s the reduction of parent another cost it’s the capital allocation to FERC-regulated transmission.
Those are the things that are really going to drive the growth that we've got outlined.
Okay.
And these SB 909 is the implementation of that sort of necessary for this growth rate or--? No I wouldn’t say it's necessary for this growth rate.
I think the outcome of that however; I’d said is baked into our overall range of potential outcomes in terms of the 7% to 10%.
Okay.
And then just finally on the transmission build out.
I know you guys are no longer a merchant which is kind of nice but can you tell us how you think that these transmission projects might impact power flows or congestion or what have you in terms of wholesale prices and perhaps how you’d like to benefit your customers or anything else you could elaborate on that? Yeah I don't know that we'll get into all those specifics but Maureen Borkowski is the Head of Transmission business was here with us this morning and I’ll give her the opportunity to make if she has any.
Yes good morning with regard to the multi-value project that Ameren Transmission company at Illinois is building those were approved by MISO for multiple reasons basically to improve reliability to enhance the accessibility of renewable resources particularly wind but also to improve the efficiency of the power market and that equates to congestion relief in the marketplace.
So yes that is the focus of those projects is to improve the efficiency of the markets as well as reliability of the customers.
Could you give us a sense of basis differential changes are nothing like there were any quantification on that sort of latter point? I’m sorry but it really don't have any information like that.
Again MISO did a pretty extensive analysis to define what their entire portfolio across MISO footprint what savings those might be but I don't have anything specific to our system.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Ashar Khan from Visium.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning and congrats.
I wanted to go more on this dividend payout you gave a range and if I do my math correctly next year we’ll be at the lower portion of the payout.
So I was just trying to see how is the Board thinking this year or next year? I know you declared the dividend earlier this week or last week is it something done for this year or is there a quarter we should look at some people have a quarter in which the increase the dividend every year? Or how is the board looking at the dividend? Is it done for this year that we have the same rate and we look for next year? Or can it be reviewed later this year? Or could you just tell us the deliberations the Board might've gone through as you went through this new outlook of yours and the dividend staying constant as you declared it at the end of last week? Yes this is Tom Voss.
I think we mentioned previously that the 55% to 70% payout ratio is what we hope for and we're somewhat at the high end of that this year.
But the Board is very much engaged every quarter and looking at our earnings and our projections and they review it.
And I would say that as we continue to grow earnings over this period we hope to continue to grow our dividend.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Senate Bill 909 if that were to pass would that alter your 2% Missouri rate base CAGR? Hey Paul this is Warner.
I think in the bigger picture what we have said if we have constructive legislation passed that supports investment in Missouri we would put more money to work.
And so if you look at SB 909 which is a little bit than that we saw last year we step back -- we think we would have the opportunity to put the work incremental investments in Missouri of say $50 million to $100 million per year should that legislation get passed in its current form.
So simple answer to your question is yes we do believe that we could put more money to work and we think it's absolutely a very good thing for the State of Missouri and its customers.
Would you borrow them from another bucket or would that the incremental capital? Paul this is Marty on that one.
I think that really too soon to tell on that particular point.
I will say that as we think about managing our overall capital expenditures we're certainly mindful of impacts on customers rates we're thinking about impacts on overall funding needs and we're also thinking about building a pipeline of investments beyond the five-year period that we've presented.
So too soon to tell but that is certainly a possibility that if we added investment opportunities there in the short-term in Missouri that other investment opportunities may slide to beyond the period presented.
But again really too early to say that.
We'll get through this legislation -- legislative season and see where we’re at and make those decisions in due course.
Okay.
Is your guidance -- have you baked anything in to that for year-to-date weather? No.
Our guidance for 2014 is based on normal weather.
And then lastly given your tax position do you expect to be a cash tax payer 2016? As I mentioned earlier on the call we expect that the NOLs and the tax credit carry-forwards that we have to provide us a benefit out through the 2016 timeframe.
Through or to sorry? Into 2016.
Into.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys congratulations on a good year and a lot of strong accomplishments during 2013.
I want to ask just a question about 2014 guidance which if I just use the midpoint of your guidance range implies almost like 11% or 12% year-over-year growth and then therefore its I think about 7% to 10% implies a much lower growth rate after 2014 am I thinking about that the right way? Am I missing something and how should we think about the puts and takes on that? Well you're right the growth between 2013 and 2014 is certainly significant and it’s driven by the items I highlighted.
But Michael obviously you can do the math.
As you look at our 2014 guidance range and you look out to the overall growth we've given out period 2018.
But if you take that midpoint of 2014 and project out you still got a really solid growth rate of around 6% to 9.5% in terms of where that range ends up.
So you're right there was a solid amount of growth in 2013 to 2014 and it moderate somewhat from there but still very solid growth rate off 2014.
And it strikes me that you're a few years from a dividend policy question.
You’re a few years away from -- like you would get if I just use midpoint of guidance you would get to the middle point of your dividend growth rate -- your dividend payout ratio in 2015 at the current dividend level like $1.60 at I don't know $2.50 or so of earnings in 2015 and I know you're not really giving 2015 guidance I'm just slapping the growth rate on 2014.
That still gets you into the low 60s payout ratio but by 2016 or 2017 your expectation as to grow the dividend with earnings growth? Michael just to reiterate or repeat what Tom said which is that as we grow the earnings.
We aspire to be able to grow the dividend.
We're not giving out I'd say an expected timing or amount of growth in the dividend.
But as Tom has previously said on prior calls we don't necessarily think that we need to get into the bottom end of the range before we would grow the dividend.
There are a number of factors that are considered.
Tom laid those out a few moments ago.
Just in terms of our earnings outlook but also our capital funding our cash flows things of that nature.
A number of those things are laid out as you've seen in our 10-Ks and 10-Qs that the Board considers but -- I guess that's about what about to say on that.
Okay.
And then last question just on capital spending because you're investing a good amount of capital in concurrent return businesses like FERC-regulated transmission.
Of the transmission investment for 2014 how much of that is ATXI versus Ameren Illinois? Let's see if I can do my math here real quick.
I think it's about that $510 million -- I think it’s about $270 million is Ameren Illinois and the remainder is ATXI.
Got it.
So not quite 50/50 but pretty close.
Cool.
Guys thank you.
I appreciate you taking my questions.
And once again congrats on a great 2013.
Thank you Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Andy Bischof of Morningstar Equity Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</strong> Hi good morning.
I got just a few follow-on questions in terms of Missouri.
I guess in terms of reducing lag are your efforts solely on Bill 909 or are there other initiatives that we should be thinking about there? And then in terms of the potential $50 million to $100 million capital spend can you provide us a little bit more color on what with these investments are? Andy this is Warner.
With regard to Missouri we're not putting all of our marbles into legislation.
We have been working for years to align our spending and to be consistent with the existing regulatory framework in Missouri and we've been successful and that focus that relentless focus on disciplined cost management will continue.
So there are a host of initiatives that we’ve taken and we'll continue to take including things like lean initiatives that are being taken place across our enterprise coupled with again disciplined management of our discretionary capital.
And as we discussed a little bit earlier you put those factors together we continue to believe that we’ll be able to align our spend with existing regulatory framework.
Of course as we said earlier we're going to be going in for an electric rate case later this year to true up our rates as well as cost.
And so that obviously will help and certainly help mitigate the regulatory lag that we're experiencing associated with the infrastructure investment in our enterprise.
That's probably one of the biggest sources of regulatory lag that we have today and indeed SB 909 will -- is squarely about trying to address the regulatory lag associated with those investments.
And Marty I think there's a question on capital investment.
Andy if you could follow-up make sure -- He was just asking what kinds of projects might be involved in that Warner.
So when you look at our existing spend this year we have two major projects that we discussed a little bit earlier the Callaway reactor vessel head as well as the precipitator project.
We also have some new substations that we have to bring on.
They are at their aging infrastructure and so we have to address some of those.
As well is we have renewable energy project.
The largest solar facility investor own facility in the State we're going to get that done by the end of the year as well.
So looking ahead we see that we have a need to invest incremental monies discretionary monies into things like substations into things like our power plants certainly in things trying to automate our system in a better way and ultimately we'll have to address -- and maybe even meters that we use in Missouri.
So we see a real need in investing in our aging infrastructure and that's what SB 909 is all about to try and do that on a -- in a more timely fashion.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you.
And congrats on the promotions and retirement.
Thank you.
Thank you Andy Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Dan Jenkins with State of Wisconsin Investment Board.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I was wondering you mentioned -- I think you're looking for declines in sales volumes for 2014 but it looks like you had slight increases for 2013.
So if you give a little more color on just what you're seeing in customer growth and demand particularly residential customer growth and then on the industrial side for demand in your service territories? Sure Dan this is Marty.
Thanks for calling and thanks the question.
You're right in terms of what we saw this past year.
Of course the sales numbers that you see are -- on the stats page are affected by weather but stripping out weather.
We did see some growth this year in both Missouri and Illinois in residential and commercial categories.
Overall on a weather-normalized basis we estimate that residential and commercial sales grew about 0.6%.
Coming into the year that's about where we expect in somewhere between 0% and 0.5% of growth and so sort of towards the upper end of that range at 0.6%.
We actually did see customer counts in both Missouri and Illinois go up in terms of residential and commercial customer count.
So that was certainly positive in 2013 versus the prior year.
Overall on industrial we did see a decline in sales of about 3.2% overall.
Missouri which was positive up about 1% in 2013 in industrial so that was a good sign while Illinois was down about 6%.
And I spoke to that of the earlier calls that we've seen some weakness in Illinois in the manufacturing sector in metals and equipment those types of things and unfortunately in Illinois we've been seeing employment -- unemployment recently bump up while national average has been coming down and we've also seen unemployment in Missouri coming down.
So Illinois unfortunately in recent months have seen unemployment-wise and industrial sales wise to be trending in a negative direction.
Missouri seems to be trending in a little bit of a positive direction.
But looking forward to 2014 what we're expecting is a decline as we mentioned in the call in residential and commercial sales.
And while we expect to see still slow improvement in the economy and jobs housing starts et cetera we do believe that both federal energy efficiency as well as state energy efficiency measures reduced sales and have -- and impacted reducing sales in 2014 compared to 2013.
And as I mentioned on the call and our prepared remarks it is important to remember that in Missouri we do have an energy efficiency program whereby we’re -- made hole for the cost of our energy efficiency programs and even provided some incentives with regards to that.
In 2013 we estimated that had an impact on our residential sales of about 0.8% and about 0.1% on commercial.
And then as I said we’re -- made hole for the cost of that.
So as you think about 2014 you think about those impacts of the residential and commercial sales going down.
They are mitigated in Missouri by what we call our MIA funding programs.
As well as in Illinois it's important to remember that under our formulaic rates there’s a 50 basis points color around the earned ROE.
With respect to industrial sales we’re expecting really be down across the two states about 0.7%.
We’re expecting to see declines in both states.
In Missouri it’s somewhat specific to some expected customer load that we do expect to see go away.
And then in Illinois I would say its -- continued concerns about general economic weakness.
Okay.
And then on Missouri given that you're planning to file for a rate increase.
I was wondering if you be able to what your ROE in Missouri in 2013 and the year-end rate base? I don't really have the year-end rate base.
I think you can go ahead and calculate the ROE I think by referencing the number on the stats page.
I don't have that in front of me either the exact net income.
But as we look ahead as we mentioned we do see the need for a rate filing which we expect to make in July.
I think in our prior calls we’ve said in the second half and as I've mentioned before really a primary driver of that filing that we plan to make in July has to deal with a significant capital expenditures that we're making in Missouri.
We talked about the electrostatic precipitators at Labadie; we talked about the Callaway reactor head that Warner just mentioned a little while ago some of the solar installations that we're doing in Missouri as well.
I think if you want to look at rate base I think the closest is to maybe go back to page eight of our slides and we do have a year-end rate base pie where we break some of the information out.
And I think you can find an estimate of the Missouri rate base at the end of 2013 there.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to add my congratulations to Tom and Warner on their upcoming changes.
Thank you.
Thank you Dan.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
I had just two questions on Missouri.
The first can you talk about the impact the Noranda complaints may or may not have an upcoming rate case? And the second when you see the headwinds associated with getting SB 909 past? Hi.
This is Warner.
I think with regard to the Noranda complaint case we don't it having any impact on our ability to file and execute the rate case that we plan on doing in July.
We were clear last November that we needed to file rate case in the second half and now we’ve sharpen our pencil and it’s going to be July and we plan to execute that in a timely fashion.
And I'm sorry you had a second question that was? The major headwinds you see with SB 909? The reality is this as you know the legislative process; it's a dynamic process so ultimately is always difficult to predict the prospects of the passage of any bill.
I'll tell you what I do know.
I do know that Missouri must make progress and really modernizing its framework to support investment.
And if the message that is understood by many key leaders in the legislature and frankly many stakeholders around the state and so as we continue to have more discussions with the general assembly in other key stakeholders around the state about SB 909.
Our message is this is an important step forward.
As I said before there’s an incremental step it’s an important step forward and it can start making progress on the aging infrastructure in Missouri.
So I'm not going to be able to hand cap.
I’m -- we do believe that there will likely be some groups that will oppose the bill but that's probably true with every bill.
But one thing I can tell you our team is going to be very focused on this legislation over the next several months.
Great.
Thank you.
And good luck.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Bill Appicelli with Nexus Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Hey Bill.
I just had a question on the financing.
You had asked or you had mentioned that you didn't expect to issue equity through 2018 but that you would evaluate use of a DRIP.
And I know in the past you had talked about the potential for $75 million to $100 million maybe using that.
I mean looking at your base plan do you -- should we assume that there's DRIP been utilized in terms of that growth path that gets you to slightly below the midpoint that you talked about? Bill I'd say that's one of the things that probably I’ll leave up to you to kind of factor in.
You should look at your model.
I mean -- what we plan to do here today was just -- again give this guidance range of 7% to 10%.
There's a range of potential things that could affect our results that we outlined there that could put us into the upper or lower end of that range.
In terms of the treasury rates sales growth spending levels regulatory developments and we're simply same.
We leave the option open as we encounter these various changes to issue shares as needed through the DRIP or 401-K.
We don't really see the need over that five-year plan for a public equity issuance as we said in the slides.
And we'll evaluate the need for the DRIP or 401-K on a year-to-year basis.
You're right about the number that we previously said which is if we did I'll say turn that on it would be about estimated $75 million to $100 million.
Okay.
And then just changing gears do you guys have any update on the status or timeline resolution of the challenge at FERC around the MISO ROEs? I'll let Maureen go ahead and answer that as well.
Yes.
In January the Midwest ISO transmission orders filed their response to the complaint requesting that FERC dismiss it because the complaint it’s really had met the burden of that the rate is just unreasonable.
They provided additional information as well about errors in the calculation in the complaint.
At this point in time others have also filed their responses but FERC has not taken any action or set any kind of schedule.
So at this point time we're really in a wait-and-see mode.
We do have confidence though that the FERC Commission is still very pro-transmission development and they understand that the return on equity components are very important element of continuing to encourage transmission investments.
So we're hopeful that the outcome will be positive.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
Thank you.
Our final question is coming from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
And congratulations Tom and Warner.
Thanks Greg.
Really appreciate that.
Thank you.
So I think maybe you touched on this already but I just wanted to come back to it in terms the growth post-2014.
With 2014 being an accelerated rate is it sort of 6% to 9.5% post that? Should we think about it that way? Then I have one detailed question.
Yeah Greg and I'll let you do a follow-up.
Yes and that would be answer that I gave -- this is Marty by the way.
As you know as simply coming off of the midpoint of our 2014 guidance and just looking at -- I mean you can -- as I said earlier you can do the math if you’re taking the 2013 base in the kid the 7% to 10% growth out 2018 calculate a number and then bring it back to the implied growth off the 2014 midpoint.
And you come up with a 6% to 9.5% kind of growth rate off of 2014 over that period.
And then if you come back to slide 15 the negative driver there just higher cost in Missouri and otherwise is there any -- anything more that you could provide detail on there? Or is it really just a thought about the impact of regulatory lag in Missouri? Yeah.
I think that Greg obviously we're trying to do on slide 15 is just provide some of what we considered to be the meaningful drivers of earnings considerations for 2013.
As I said before as we think about the Missouri electric rate case we would plan to file that in July of this year July of 2014.
So you would expect the normal 11 month resolution with a rate increase in June.
And so -- again we're time in the rate case certainly to pick up these large capital investments that we're making this year but in the early part of 2015 given the Missouri regulatory framework you would expect to have some regulatory lag of the results of those investments when you think about depreciation property taxes potential for some incremental O&amp;M cost in 2015.
And then the rate increase would kick in that June timeframe of 2013.
And then you would lay out just a number of other drivers which we've got.
As the formula rates in Illinois the investments we're making there in both the gas and electric portions of our business and of course the investments we're making in the transmission.
And then as the reduction -- somewhat incremental reduction would expect to get in the parent and other costs going into 2013.
Okay.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Fischer for any additional concluding comments.
Before we complete our call today Warner and Tom have some closing remarks.
Warner? Thanks.
I know it’s been a long call and I thank you for your interest in the company but we do have a couple of closing comments.
As I said at the outset I'm very very humbled and honored to follow in Tom’s footsteps.
I think as you all know his strong leadership over these past five years has delivered tremendous value to our shareholders and I can tell you his leadership has also delivered tremendous value to our customers and all the communities that we serve.
I think it's important to know that Tom's strong leadership has also positioned Ameren and our team to continue to deliver superior value to our shareholders and customers and frankly the communities we serve in the future.
He has demonstrated commitment to safety diversity and service to our shareholders our customers and our communities as well as a generation of Ameren coworkers for 45 years it's simply unequaled.
So Tom on behalf of our entire Ameren team I want to thank you for your tremendous leadership and I just want to personally thank you for being such a fine mentor and a friend to me.
So thank you Tom.
Thanks Warner.
This is my final quarterly earnings call for Ameren and I’d like to share a few thoughts.
It's been an honor to lead this great company for these past five years.
I’m pleased that during this time our team developed a clear vision and strategy for the future and made significant progress on executing that strategy.
My many years at the company have been very rewarding.
I've always said that the secret a great career is to be able to say that you love what you do while you do it and who you do it with.
I can tell you that I have really enjoyed working with our Board of Directors our leadership team and coworkers for the benefit of Ameren shareholders and customers.
I've also enjoyed interacting with so many of you in the investment community.
Warner has been with Ameren for nearly 20 years and has served in a wide variety of leadership roles in Finance and Operations.
I have absolute confidence in his ability to lead Ameren and that he will continue to execute on as well is enhance Ameren’s growth strategy.
This is Doug.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for one year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst should be -- financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fisher or my associate Matt Thayer.
Media should call Joe Mellencamp.
Our contact numbers are on the news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Ameren Corporation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the floor over to your host Mr.
Douglas Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer you may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations believes plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statement section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with a review of first quarter 2014 earnings and updated 2014 guidance as well as an update on legislative regulatory and business developments.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of first quarter financial results and comment on earnings considerations for the balance of the year.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I'd like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here's Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Great.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced first quarter 2014 earnings of $0.40 per share compared to first quarter 2013 earnings of $0.22 per share.
This increase was primarily the result of much colder winter temperatures which drove higher electric and natural gas sales levels increased revenues for electric transmission service.
Earnings comparison also benefited from lower interest expense increased Illinois electric delivery earnings recognized under formula ratemaking the substantial elimination of business and administrative costs previously incurred in support of divested merchant generation business.
Today we also updated our earnings guidance for this year.
We now expect 2014 earnings to be in a range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share a $0.05 per share increase from a prior range of $2.25 to $2.45 per share.
This increase incorporates the positive effect of a cooler than normal first quarter temperatures just discussed.
Marty will provide further details on first quarter earnings in a few minutes.
Before he does so I would like to update you on recent developments in our Missouri and Illinois utilities and the FERC regulated electric transmission activities.
Turning to Page 5 I'll begin my Missouri update by discussing legislative matters.
In the current session of the Missouri General Assembly we have strongly advocated for legislation that would reduce regulatory lag and support investments in aging infrastructure namely Senate Bill 909 and House Bill 2204.
However with legislative session scheduled to end next week on May 16 it does not appear likely that such legislation will win approval from General Assembly this year.
While progress was made in securing support for these bills from certain legislators who have opposed the infrastructure legislation proposed last year other legislative priorities such as income tax and education reform overshadowed the need to enhance policies to support energy infrastructure investment this session.
We are disappointed that infrastructure legislation is not likely to be enacted this session.
But this will not affect our ability to execute the strategic plan we've discussed with you in the past.
We have and will continue to operate and invest in our utility businesses in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks.
Under the 5-year investment plan we've presented to you in February we will continue to allocate less discretionary capital to Missouri operations and greater levels of capital to our Illinois energy delivery and transmission businesses where regulatory frameworks are more supportive of infrastructure investments.
Nevertheless another key component of our long-term strategy is to enhance frameworks and advocate for responsible energy policies.
As a result we will continue to actively work with legislators and other key stakeholders to build support for energy policies that reduce regulatory lag and support investment in our aging infrastructure in Missouri.
Such investments will result in long-term benefits for our customers shareholders and the entire State of Missouri.
Moving from legislative to regulatory matters I'd like to update you on important pending and planned rate cases in Missouri.
Last month the Missouri Public Service Commission established schedules for the electric rate shift and earnings complaint cases filed by Ameren Missouri's largest industrial customer Noranda which operates an aluminum smelter in southeastern Missouri.
In the rate shift case the commission schedule calls for hearings in mid-June and a decision on August 6.
While in the earnings case the schedule calls for hearings in late July and early August but the decision on September 26.
These schedules are summarized in the appendix to today's presentation.
In both of these cases the burden proof rests solely on Noranda and the 37 residential customers who joined the complaint filings.
While Noranda's electric rate shift proposal is revenue neutral to Ameren Missouri we do not believe Noranda's proposed reduction in its electric rates which is significantly below its cost of service is appropriate or in the best interest of other 1.2 million electric customers.
Nor do we believe that an overall reduction in our electric rates is justified.
The testimony we filed under rate shift case tomorrow and the earnings case on June 6 will strongly support our positions.
In fact by July 15 Ameren Missouri will file a long-planned electric rate increase request.
This rate request will further demonstrate that Ameren Missouri's rates should be increased to recover updated operating costs including higher net fuel cost.
To cover and earn a return on additional electric infrastructure investments made for the benefit of our customers and to reflect rebates provided for customer-installed solar generation.
The additional infrastructure investments include several significant projects.
These are replacement of the reactor head at our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center in order to ensure continued safe and dependable operations.
Upgrades to the electrostatic precipitators at our coal fired Labadie Energy Center to reduce emissions and make the air cleaner.
Two new substations in downtown St.
Louis and construction of the O'Fallon Renewable Energy Center and Facility.
All of these projects are scheduled to be completed by the fourth quarter of this year and therefore eligible for inclusion in the new rates.
In summary our rate increase request in Missouri is about providing our customers and the state with safe dependable and cleaner energy they need and expect.
I'll conclude my Missouri update by commenting on the United States Supreme Court's recent decision upholding the Environmental Protection Agency's Cross-State Air Pollution Rule or CSAPR.
We are continuing to review the court's decision and expect the EPA to issue guidance on implementing the rule in the near future.
Assuming the EPA does not revise the emission reductions it previously included in the CSAPR we believe this new rule will have a minimal effect on our business.
This is due to the fact that in recent years we've taken a number of important actions to significantly reduce sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from Missouri energy centers.
We installed scrubbers at our Sioux Energy Center and began burning ultra-low sulfur coal in all for coal-fired energy centers.
Further we modified our generating units to lower nitrogen oxide emissions.
These actions have positioned us well to comply with CSAPR.
Moving to Page 7 and an Illinois regulatory update.
I'll remind you that each year's Illinois electric delivery earnings are a function of that years' ending rate base.
The formula determined allowed return on equity which is the annual average of 30-year U.S.
treasury bond yields plus 580 basis points and ICC authorized equity ratio.
Illinois formula ratemaking requires Ameren Illinois to file for annual rate updates to systematically updated cash flows over time for changes in cost of service and to true-up of any period over or under recovery of such costs.
Last month Ameren Illinois filed an update seeking a $206 million increase in electric rates reflecting 2013 actual costs expected 2014 infrastructure investments and changes in prior period over and under recovery balances.
While the filing with the Illinois Commerce Commission would result in an increase in 2015 electric delivery service rates total electric bills in 2015 are still expected to remain below 2011 levels for most customers.
An ICC order is expected by December of this year.
The new rates will be effective in January of next year.
Summary of our filing is included in the appendix of this presentation.
While we are on the subject of electric delivery service I want to highlight the fact that our Illinois electric delivery customers are beginning to experience the benefits of a long-term approach to upgrading the states' electric infrastructure under the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
Simply put implementation of advanced technology is increasing electric system performance.
We are hardening our system by installing larger poles that can withstand stronger storms.
We're installing smart sensors and switches to reduce outages.
Resizing transformers to meet future capacity needs for customers and construct a new overhead and underground line.
Company also plans to install new advanced meters beginning in the summer of this year.
Over time these upgrades will improve service by helping Ameren Illinois detect and isolate outages faster.
Customers will also have more information in new tools and programs to better manage their energy costs.
All in all we're on track to meet the performance goals of an incremental investments required by the Infrastructure Modernization Act as well as pass the 2014 rate impact test of the act.
Finally investments in modernizing the grid are creating significant new jobs.
Since January 3 2012 these forward thinking energy policies have supported over 1 000 new jobs in Ameren Illinois service territory alone including contract workers.
These jobs are providing a needed economic boost to downstate Illinois.
Turning now to Page 8 and our FERC regulated transmission business.
As we stated on our February earnings call we currently plan to invest substantial incremental capital $2.25 billion over the 2014 through 2018 period given local and regional needs for transmission investment and first constructive forward-looking formula ratemaking framework.
I'm pleased to report that our investment plans are proceeding as expected.
In particular I would like to update you on activities at Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois or ATXI.
We are in the early stages of construction of our largest single project an approximately $1.1 billion Illinois Rivers MISO approved regional multi-value project.
Substation construction is already underway and line construction is expected to begin later this year.
We are also currently reviewing and expect to update later this year the estimated costs of this project.
This estimate will incorporate the final ICC-approved route which is somewhat longer than the originally proposed and accommodates certain property owner and environmental concerns.
Next I'll like to update you on ATXI's Spoon River project.
The MISO approved regional multi-value transmission line between Peoria and Galesburg Illinois that is expected to be in service by 2018.
We recently held a first round of 6 open house meetings to inform area residents about the project and to receive input.
The second round of open house meetings will be held in June.
At which time ATXI will identify at least 2 possible routes.
We plan to request a certificate of public convenience and necessity for this Spoon River project from the Illinois Commerce Commission in the third quarter of this year and expect to receive a decision in mid-2015.
Spoon River's cost is estimated at approximately $130 million to $150 million depending on the route approved by the ICC.
On the transmission rate front a complaint case challenging MISO's current allowed return on equity of 12.38% and other aspects of ratemaking are pending at FERC.
Ameren Illinois and ATXI electric transmission investments are subject to this MISO allowed ROE.
We continue to be actively engaged in this proceeding and strongly believe that constructive ratemaking policies within the allowed ROE level play a pivotal role in setting investment.
Our 5-year investment plan clearly supports this perspective.
Well we can't predict the ultimate outcome of this case we believe the FERC commissioners are committed to encouraging transmission investment.
The FERC has not yet established a schedule for the MISO ROE complaint case.
We expect it to first resolve the pending New England ROE complaint case before acting on the MISO case.
Turning to Page 9.
I firmly believe that Ameren is well-positioned to deliver superior value to our customers and shareholders as we execute on our strategy of investing in and operating our utilities in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks as well as working to enhance those frameworks and advocating for responsible energy policies.
Further we're focused on creating and capitalizing on opportunities to invest in our rate regulated businesses to the benefit our customers and shareholders.
As shown at the top of this page we're allocating significant and growing amounts of discretionary capital to Ameren Illinois energy delivery in our FERC regulated energy transmission businesses because we can improve the safety and ability and sustainability of the services we provide to our customers because these businesses operate under modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
We have a solid list of transmission projects that are expected to increase our FERC-regulated transmission rate base by approximately 28% compounded annually over the 2013 to 2018 period.
In addition our Ameren Illinois investments are expected to contribute to projected Illinois electric and gas delivery rate base growth of 5% and 7% respectively on a compound annual basis.
Our 5-year outlook incorporates expected Missouri rate base growth at only a 2% compound annual rate reflecting the need for further enhancements to the regulatory framework that reduce regulatory lag for investment.
In summary over the next 5 years we plan to invest almost $5 billion in the State of Illinois consistent with our approach to strategically allocate capital to those jurisdictions that support investment and provide greater opportunities to earn fair returns on our investments compared to approximately $3.4 billion in the state of Missouri.
Putting all of this together we continue to expect earnings per share to grow at a 7% and 10% compound annual rate from 2013 through 2018.
This outlook is driven primarily by expected rate base growth of approximately 6% compounded annually from year-end 2013 to 2018 as shown at the bottom half of this page as well as strategic capital allocation and disciplined cost management.
I'll now turn the call over to Marty for further financial update.
Marty? Thanks Warner.
Turning now to Page 11 of our presentation.
As Warner noted today we reported earnings for the first quarter of 2014 of $0.40 per share compared to $0.22 per share for the first quarter of 2013.
Key drivers of this earnings improvement are listed on this page.
First colder winter temperatures drove higher electric and natural gas sales volumes increasing earnings by an estimated $0.07 per share compared to the year-ago period and compared to normal temperatures.
Second increased Ameren Illinois and ATXI electric transmission revenues under FERC's formula-looking ratemaking reflecting 2014 infrastructure investments boosted the earnings comparison by a total of $0.03 per share.
Third lower interest expense primarily at Ameren Missouri increased first quarter 2014 earnings by $0.03 per share compared with the first quarter of 2013.
Fourth parent and other results improved reflecting the substantial elimination of business and administrative cost previously incurred in support of the divested merchant generation businesses.
This benefited the earnings comparison by $0.03 per share.
Finally Illinois electric delivery service earnings recognized under formula ratemaking increased $0.02 per share reflecting 2014 infrastructure investments and a higher allowed ROE due to increased 30-year U.S.
treasury bond yields.
Moving now to Page 12.
Warner already mentioned that we raised our 2014 earnings guidance to reflect the colder than normal first quarter temperatures.
On this Page we list selected items to consider as you update your 2014 earnings models.
These include the effect on earnings that a return to normal temperatures would have on this year's remaining quarters.
Also next year Ameren's high-cost -- excuse me next week Ameren's high-cost $425 million parent company debt issue will mature.
We plan to fund this maturity with short-term debt and expect to issue approximately $200 million to $300 million of parent company long-term debt late this year as we continue to fund our ATXI infrastructure investment.
In addition I want to remind you that the 2013 Callaway Energy Center and nuclear fueling outage and the associated increase in operations and maintenance expenses was a second quarter event last year but this year's refueling will take place in the fourth quarter.
Finally second quarter 2014 earnings should benefit compared to 2013 from the absence of last year's Missouri fuel adjustment clause disallowance while fourth quarter 2014 earnings should benefit again compared to 2013 from the absence of last year's Illinois debt redemption cost disallowance.
Of course these are only some of the factors that will have an effect on balancing the year 2014 earnings compared to last year.
Turning finally to Page 13 I will summarize.
We are executing on the well-defined strategy as mentioned by Warner.
Our first quarter 2014 earnings results were strong as a result we have raised our guidance range for this year.
Our investment plan including our strategic allocation of capital disciplined cost control and reduced parent company earnings drag are expected to lead earnings per share growth of 7% to 10% compounded annually from 2013 to 2018.
This growth rate is better than the expected average of our regulated peers.
Further Ameren's $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with a yield of approximately 4%.
Finally we aspire to grow our dividend as earnings grow and expect our dividend payout ratio to be between 55% and 70% for the annual earnings.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Stephen Byrd of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about transmission growth plans beyond what you already laid out as I think you about Entergy joining MISO and as you think about your service territory being the linkage.
Could you talk about how you think about additional transmission growth plans? What would the process be timing et cetera for thinking through that? Is that something we should be actively thinking about? Steven this is Warner.
I'll touch on some of the big picture things and then in terms of some of the timing maybe I'll ask Maureen Borkowski our CEO of our transmission business to step in.
But a big picture we do see opportunities for incremental investments in transmission.
Certainly as you mentioned you look at Entergy coming into MISO and we see that there are clear opportunities there.
But I wouldn't limit it to just that I would look at the opportunities at the MISO and PJM scene as well as between MISO and SPP and frankly beyond that just some of our NERC liability projects.
You put all those types of things together and we see over the next several years real opportunities for growth in transmission and Maureen and her team even today are taking steps to position ourselves to execute on investment strategy there just as we did frankly many years ago to put ourselves into position we're at today to execute on the $2.25 billion that we're executing in the plan.
So we absolutely -- something we should be thinking about and something we're clearly thinking about and we intend to execute on.
In terms of overall timing Maureen I know that there is a process going up perhaps you can fill in -- fill us in a little bit on that.
Yes certainly from a timing perspective all of the RTOs are engaged in implementing their post-FERC Order 1000 processes.
And we've been actively engaged and participating in those both in terms of the certification processes to participate as a transmission developer in those regions as well as to participate in the planning process propose projects.
We've actually already been precertified by both PJM and MISO to participate in that post-FERC Order 1000 process and we're working with Southwest Power Pool as they continue to develop their rules for certification.
So we are in the development phase I would say at this point in time but as Warner mentioned those are all milestones that need to be met and as we continue to accomplish those we're hoping to increase that portfolio of projects.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And shifting gears over to Missouri clearly disappointing that the legislature didn't take action.
Can you talk about what would need to happen.
What would need to change in the state for there to be better appreciation for the need for more incentives to actually spend capital in the state? It sounds like other priorities really is -- you were saying Warner sort of took higher priority this year but just wondering what needs to change for the situation in Missouri to improve? Steven this is Warner.
I think certainly there were other priorities that the legislature took on this year.
And certainly to be clear I mean there certainly was some opposition by certain consumer groups that really I would say are taking more of a shorter term energy focus than the longer-term.
So one of the things that we have been and will continue to do is continue to educate key stakeholders not just legislators but others around the state about the importance of solid energy policy in the state of Missouri about the importance of infrastructure investment and not only how it's going to lead our customers' energy needs and expectations in the future but also how we're convinced it can drive economic development and growth.
I think a great example that would be helpful for us so the great things that Richard Mark and his team are doing over in Illinois in terms of using that constructive regulatory policy over there to invest in our infrastructure helping deliver on the energy needs and expectations of customers and certainly driving job growth.
So it is an educational process that we'll continue to do.
It is an outreach process to legislators and key influentials and it's important that we continue to raise the priority level of responsible energy policies in the state of Missouri.
And Michael Moehn who I know has taken over in my role in Ameren Missouri I know this is a top priority for he and his team and we're going to continue to be relentless in our discussions around this important energy policy in state.
But I think ultimately is just going to continue to be working very hard to educate key stakeholders and continue to advocate for that responsible policy.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Patterson of Glenrock Associates.
I was wondering if you could just give us a flavor for what the level of discretionary capital would have been if something like SB 909 had been implemented.
How much more you would have been investing in Missouri and where that would have come from? It would've come from Illinois or would've been additional capital raised in the capital markets? How should we have about it? Paul I'll start with -- this is Warner.
I'll start with sort of the big picture about the incremental capital we thought we could put to work and then I'll let Marty jump in terms of how we're thinking about allocation of capital.
The big picture we looked at this legislation if it would have got across the finish line.
It would've given us the ability to add say $50 million to $100 million per year of incremental discretionary capital that we could put to work.
So this bill was not that we're talking about this session was not the same bill that we have looked at in the past nor is it really a similar bill that it was done in Illinois where we get more timely recovery of cost.
But no matter we could clearly have put $100 million incrementally per year in a variety of aging infrastructure projects from both the transmission distribution and generation side of our business.
Marty you want to touch a little bit about how we think about that in terms of allocation of capital? Yes.
Sure Warner.
Paul as I mentioned on our last call what we'll do to the extent that we do have incremental capital expenditure opportunities whether they be in Missouri at some point in the future or other parts of our business is if we clearly look at the relative returns so we can get on various projects across the enterprise look at our overall funding needs and also look beyond the current 5-year period as we said before to be developing sort of a pipeline of investment opportunities rate-based growth and earnings growth opportunities beyond the 5-year period through 2018.
So the opportunities present themselves no matter where they be we'll take a look at enterprise-wide and across not just the 5 years [indiscernible] and decide whether to fund those incrementally in the short-term or rearrange our project timing to push some of those projects out and build that pipeline for the future.
Okay.
And I guess just to clarify this there really was no -- you guys in your forecast previously hadn't really baked in anything for SB 909 is that correct? That's absolutely right Paul.
There was nothing baked into our capital expenditure guidance for that nor did we feel that that was necessary in order to achieve the earnings growth targets that we provided on our last call.
Okay great.
And then on the Noranda case any potential for settlement or should we just expect this to be litigated like I mean what do you guys think? Paul this is Warner.
Look at big picture we feel 2 things about those cases.
Number one about the earnings complaint case we don't feel it's justified for our rates to go down.
So we look forward to having that discussion before the Missouri Public Service Commission team over the next several months.
And then secondly I think we've been clear that we believe that the rate shift that Noranda is proposing is simply not in the best interest of our customers.
And so as you should expect that these cases to go before the Missouri Public Service Commission over the next 7 months.
Okay.
And then just finally the FERC ROE case that you guys touched on it looks like things are just sort of halted there.
I'm just wondering if you had any other insight or read tea leaves in any certain way about how that might -- or when something might happen there? This is Maureen Borkowski.
We really don’t have any particular insight on either what might happen with the MISO case or even watching to see what happens with the New England case.
One thing I will say we were pleased to see the renomination of commissioner LaFleur and also watching to see what happens with the Norman Bay nomination.
I certainly think some of those things are things that need to be resolved perhaps.
But we're watching it just like you are.
Our next question is coming from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So first quick question if you will.
Under the EIMA there seems to be a certain element of inflation permissible.
As we've seeing some of the commodity prices recover how are you seeing your latitude remaining under that mechanism? And if you could remind us a bit when do we actually kind of true that up and test that if you will? Yes sure Julien.
I think that under the legislation coming up actually here in July of this year we'll be making of filing to show how our rates have been impacted in Illinois across the board in terms of the total customer's bill.
Interestingly what's been happening since we got into the formula rates is the major components of the customers' bill both the power prices as well as the delivery service components both of those components have actually been coming down.
So we've said in our prepared remarks number one we expect that when we present that to the ICC which is due again on or before July 31 we're going to show a reduction for our residential customers during that period.
We also had mentioned in our prepared remarks that while we did just file recently a rate update case that will take effect early in 2015 we still believe even with that increase that the total electric bills for most of our customers will still be below the 2011 levels.
So so far so good in terms of Ameren meeting the overall test if you will which was a 2.5% compound annual growth rate in total bills.
We're actually believe that the bills for our customers are actually down versus where we started.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I suppose just a second question in light of CSAPR of late but more broadly environmental spending especially focusing here in Missouri at this point how are you thinking about your exposure a to coal ash? And then secondarily the future around the regulations 1-hour SO2 et cetera what kind of spend are you thinking about in the latter half of the decade as you might tactically shift back to Missouri at some point in time? Julian this is Warner.
In the bigger picture I think that our team has done a nice job in positioning ourselves well to comply certainly with the existing environmental regulations.
We're well positioned to address the MATS rules with these electrostatic precipitators and as we've said we are well-positioned to address CSAPR.
We certainly can't predict what the new rule is going to be in the future.
And certainly as the ash rules get finalized we will obviously take the steps to comply with them.
As we all know here in June there will be essentially proposed rules around greenhouse gas regulations.
The one thing I will say is that we will continue to be advocating for responsible energy policies.
We will take a very active role within the industry within the state and federally trying to make sure that we have responsible energy policies that factoring the impacts on customers the economy and certainly environment.
And so with that that's really how we see at as we sit here right now.
And Julien the only other thing I would add is -- this is Marty is go ahead and take a look at the 10-K disclosures we've made and we'll update them as appropriate in the 10-Q.
Though I don't think there's anything major in terms of latter half of the decade changes in estimates for cost.
So I think 10-K is probably the best reference in terms of some of those longer-term potential capital expenditures.
And the other thing that I just remind you and everybody else is that we'll be also filing integrated resource plan in Missouri later this year in the October timeframe.
And that will also be a document that you might reference in terms of thoughts on our future generations.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And perhaps just the last quick clarification the last question here around Noranda settlement et cetera.
How does the Noranda case ultimately play out in terms of your own upcoming filing? Obviously the timing of the decision relative to when you filed the Missouri case doesn't exactly coincide? Are you -- is there any potential true up or any impact at all as you think about one versus the other? Julien this is Warner.
The bottom line is that we intend to file our electric rate increase requests by July 15 and we will execute that case as planned.
We will have these other proceedings going on and perhaps in parallel and perhaps they'll be consolidated at some point we simply can't predict.
But we know that we will be filing our other electric rate increase requests by mid-July.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBank.
Research Division</strong> Do you still expect kind of the merchant costs to whittle away half of those this year? Yes Paul.
This is Marty.
You're correct.
The guidance we gave at the beginning of the year last year we had about $0.18 of parent and other costs that was both G&amp;A cost as well as parent interest cost.
Our guidance at the beginning of the year was that we would expect to reduce that this year down to about $0.10 per share and we are on target to accomplish that if not beat that slightly.
Research Division</strong> And I know it's less pertinent to you but what's the update on SB 702? Paul this is SB702.
This is the property in transmission cost trackers that's what you are referring to? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
So the update is as follows that bill has been passed in a bit different but a similar conceptual bill from the house has been passed by 2 committees.
The energy committees both in the Senate and the House.
And so it has not received floor debate and as we said we're both coming up to the end of session.
So while not impossible for that bill to still get potential have passage.
Obviously as each day goes by it become more challenging.
Our next question comes from the line Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have -- I wanted us -- I have a couple of questions first on Missouri.
Can you talk about the rate base in Missouri that is being mentioned in the 2 cases that are outstanding in the complaint in the earnings -- the rate design case and the earnings complaint case versus the amount of rate base addition that might be included in a filing I'm thinking the work at Labadie the reactor vessel head that you mentioned at the beginning of the call? I'm just kind of trying to get a picture of how much incremental rate base that is? And I know that's capital spend you've probably previously disclosed I'm just not sure any of the offsets.
Michael this is Warner.
I'll try and take a high-level shot.
Because the fact of the matter the specific rate base in the earnings complaint case is still I would say a moving target.
It is -- no one really knows the specific rate base.
I think they're ultimately be the final last year and true up period is still under discussion.
So we really don't have that.
In terms of the rate design case rate base may not be as critical discussion as it would be in the other earnings case.
But I would say is this as we've talked about in our talking points just in terms of incremental capital additions I mentioned 3 -- that are a few that are out there.
Number one is the Callaway the reactor vessel head at Callaway.
The precipitators that are taking place at our Labadie Energy Center.
We have a new solar energy facility which will be coming on in the second half of the year.
And then we've added 2 new substations downtown.
Those projects alone and I'm not talking about the rest of our projects they alone are about $370 million.
And so then you can look at some of the other disclosures that we had in the past in terms of our rate base may be growing.
But those are just some meaningful projects that whether they'll a piece of those will be included in this rate base but certainly they'll be included in our rate case that was filed in July.
Research Division</strong> And the best way to think about what you'll file in July is you'll use kind of a ending near 2014 rate base because you can -- because you're doing a mid-year filing the known and measurable process let's you kind of true that up.
Yes.
And that's right.
We will do a known and measurable process.
And historically which you typically see as a true up of about 6 months post that test year.
And so obviously when we think about filing rate cases we factor all those elements into our thinking including meaningful rate base additions.
And so that's all part of the effective managing of these process from our view.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
1 or 2 other items on the Illinois side we've seen a -- I mean the broader markets have seen a pretty decent downdraft from kind of the highs in terms of where the 10-year treasury was and where that 30-year treasury yield was.
Can you talk about just the earnings sensitivity in Illinois to changes in the 30-year treasury? Yes.
Michael this is Marty.
The -- one of the -- the best way of thinking about it is we talked before about 50 basis points in Illinois is about $0.025 per share of those electric delivery earnings.
And I think that's probably the best thing to think about.
Something coming in into this year with respect to the ROE we will affect sort of the formula midpoint at about [indiscernible] percent which is what we were expecting a 30-year treasury of about 4.1%.
And as we sit here now and based on as we look at our guidance given that treasury -- I think 30-year treasuries plus [indiscernible] as of May 1 we're thinking it could be a little lower than 4.8% maybe around 3.8% which would give us an ROE of about 9.6%.
So if that 9.6% versus the 9.9% expected I mean again that's probably about $0.015 of earnings right there if that holds.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one last...
.
[Audio Gap] Research Division</strong> Not a big number? Not a big number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question I'm trying to think through O&amp;M over the next couple of years.
Callaway outage in 2014 no Callaway outage in '15 but one in I guess like if you are on a 18-month cycle or a 20-month cycle that would imply like second quarter-ish first quarter-ish 2016.
Do you incur all of the O&amp;M still in the quarter incurred or is there some amortization meaning would 2015 benefit because there is no Callaway outage O&amp;M in 2015 but then you'd have it back in '16? Michael absolutely.
That is [indiscernible]-- this fourth quarter of this year we actually have another about $0.06 cost for Callaway refueling.
Next year we would not expect to incur those costs.
So there is no amortization of the actual costs.
We end up reflecting those and incurring them in the quarter that they occur.
From time to time and I'm not currently giving out the 2015 guidance but we certainly think about our outage schedules with respect to our other fossil-fired generating units too though as we think about year changes in O&amp;M.
So and there is some variability there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And one final one on the Illinois Rivers how significant was the route change? I'm just trying to think about what kind of directionally what the capital spending change could potentially be when you refile? Well it's not going to be necessary to refile.
But we will provide you what we are basically saying on the call is that as we go through the year at some point we'll give some updated guidance on CapEx.
And just wanted you all to know we were looking at the overall final project plan timing and capital expenditures for that project.
Overall as Warner mentioned in this talking points the route was call it marginally longer.
There were numerous angles that were in the final plan to accommodate property owners and avoid environmentally sensitive areas.
So in all of those things we do think put some modest upward pressure on the total cost of the project.
But as I said again we are working through the final project plans capital expenditure amounts and timing and as I said I think in response to a question earlier what we do then is we'll step back and look at our overall Ameren-wide capital spending plans and allocate capital as we feel appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you remind us what would be original capital for that project and what was the length of the original plan meaning mileage? I don't think I have the length of the original plan but the -- the cost estimates you see in our slides have not been changed.
So the cost estimates that you have in the slides are the same costs and estimates that we provided historically.
And we're just simply saying that we do expect to be some moderate upward pressure on those cost estimates.
And we'll provide updates later on.
But I don't have the exact change in the miles but the miles were an impact but also like I said twists and turns to avoid certain properties also had an impact.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Carl Seligson of Utility Financial.
Curious -- weather was beneficial in the quarter as you say by $0.07.
You raised the guidance for the year by a $0.05.
What bunch of other things -- look most of which are positive this year versus last year for the next 3 quarters.
What's going on that's going to go bad and keep that large range for your guidance? Carl this is Marty.
Thanks for the question.
When you look at those various drivers for the quarter they were positive versus the prior year.
Many of those though were right in line with our expectations when we put out the guidance.
So the first one the temperatures was really the one that was unexpected and drove electric margins about $0.05 higher and gas margins about $0.02 higher.
So the weather clearly had a benefit.
When we think about the guidance for the year which we started at $0.20 and we're still at $0.20.
It's important obviously to remember that the bulk of our earnings come in the third quarter of the year.
So we've got a long way to go here for the remainder of the year both in terms of calendar months but also in terms of where the bulk of our earnings really come from.
So in thinking about it while weather benefited us $0.07 and we are raising our guidance about $0.05.
There are obviously in a forecast there are always things if you move through time that would change either plus or minus in terms of a little bit of a negative certainly talked about 30-year treasuries earlier on the call which if our updated treasury forecast holds probably cost us may be $0.015 or so versus our initial expectations.
Then again we're doing well in terms of reducing the parent and other costs expected do well in terms of refinancing of that parent company debt we probably picked up about $0.015 there that much -- so it's interesting about interest rates it kind of cut both ways for us in terms of savings on the refinancings.
It's a benefit.
We -- when we mentioned sales when we did look at our Q1 sales frankly absent weather normalization.
There were actually a little better than expected.
So taking credit for that but not really changing the balance of the year expectations.
It probably picked up about a $0.01 there and then we lost a little bit and the expectation of a higher effective tax rate.
So those things we didn't all call out there are a bunch of pluses and minuses that are a $0.01 here or a $0.01 there.
Again weather was a big benefit it upped our guidance and the guidance range simply reflects we got a long way to go this year.
Okay.
And given the breadth of the range hopefully you'll tighten that up a little bit perhaps at the next quarter? Yes historically -- we will continue to evaluate.
I think historically maybe we tightened it up a little after the second quarter but really as I said before the third quarter is where the bulk of the earnings come.
But pretty significantly after the third quarter.
Our next question is from the line of David Paz of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Sorry if I missed this earlier.
What was your -- I think you just touched on this Marty what was your weather adjusted sales growth by segment? Yes I didn't go through that in any details.
In response to last question I simply kind of mentioned it.
But I think I'll go ahead and go through it in some detail if you like.
I'd remind you that coming into the year we did expect the residential and commercial sales would be down about a full percent and industrial down about 0.7%.
And remind you that 1% decline in residential and commercial really we expect that to be driven by significant investment in energy efficiency in Missouri as well as just sort of national energy efficiency lighting standards.
For the quarter our heating degree days were up about 19% compared to last year at about 26% compared to normal.
And as I said on the call we estimate both of those had an impact about $0.07 about $0.07 positive compared to normally and compared to the prior year.
And when we weather normalize our residential and commercial sales there actually up about 0.8%.
Illinois was really driving that Illinois residential and commercial sales up while Missouri was down which certainly our expectation they would be given some of the energy efficiency spending.
So -- but I would say overall and what I said in the last Q&amp;A was that that was better performance I would say in terms of sales growth both in Illinois and Missouri than had been expected despite Missouri being down it was just down less than expected.
Absent the impacts of the energy efficiency programs in Missouri which is I mentioned I think I mentioned on the prior call we gave recovery and are basically made whole of the impacts on energy efficiency investment in Missouri.
We actually estimated excluding those impacts of energy efficiency.
So both weather normalizing and stripping out impacts of weather energy efficiency the residential and commercial sales in Missouri also would've been up maybe 0.5% or so across the residential and commercial class.
So overall David I think it was a positive.
As I said in the last response though as I think for the remainder of year we're going to continue take a cautious approach.
And take credit for the good performance here in Q1.
But not really raise our expectations for the remainder of the year.
I guess a couple of other comments in the sales area I remind you last year sales in that residential and commercial were up about 0.6% which was good.
Our customer accounts in Q1 were up about 0.3% in residential and commercial.
So there are some good signs there and we'll continue to watch that.
In terms of industrial sales again Missouri was up which was positive.
We saw that last year.
We saw about 0.3% of increase.
Nothing huge but nonetheless a little bit of positive growth in Missouri which was great.
Illinois as I mentioned on our last call we continue to see the industry struggling there where we saw our industrial sales down about 2.6%.
So that's kind of an update unless you want more in terms of what we saw in terms of sales? LLC</strong> I got a follow-up off line.
And I'll just had a couple of quick ones.
I understand your rate cases in Missouri are based on historical test year.
I just wanted you to confirm that sales are weather normalized in rate cases correct? Absolutely yes.
LLC</strong> And I presume there'll be the same in the over -- pending overearnings complaints? Well again that we will see how that proceeding plays out.
But absolutely we believe that in the process of setting rates sales levels should be normalized for weather.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just your coal stockpiles I'm just curious what they're looking like right now as we head shoulder or I guess we're in the shoulder season.
Yes I would say that we don't typically give out our exact coal pile levels but....
LLC</strong> Are they normal about normal.
Yes I would say that they're normal.
I will now like to turn the call to Mr.
Fischer for closing comments.
I want to thank each of you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for 1-year on our website.
If You have questions you can call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or my associate Matt Thayer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today's news release.
Again I thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Douglas Fischer.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are: Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast.
Redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcast and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with a review of second quarter earnings and full year guidance.
He will then provide an update on regulatory and business matters.
Marty will follow with more detailed discussions of second quarter results as well as 2014 earnings and cash flow guidance.
He will also provide details related to pending rate cases.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here's Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced second quarter 2014 earnings of $0.62 per share compared to second quarter 2013 earnings of $0.44 per share.
This increase reflected the absence of Callaway Energy Center nuclear refueling outage expenses in the second quarter of this year as well as the absence of last year's second quarter charge related to the Missouri fuel adjustment clause.
This year the Callaway refueling outage is scheduled for the fourth quarter while last year the refueling outage occurred in the second quarter.
The earnings comparison also benefited from this year's warmer early summer temperatures which drove Missouri native load electric sales volumes higher.
Other positive factors included increased rates effective the beginning of this year for FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois natural gas delivery services as well as decreased interest expense.
These positives were partially offset by a higher effective income tax rate.
Today we also affirmed our earnings guidance for this year.
We continue to expect 2014 earnings to be in the range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
Marty will provide further details on the second quarter earnings and other financial matters in a few minutes.
Before he does so I would like to update you on recent regulatory and business developments at our Missouri and Illinois utilities as well as our FERC-regulated electric transmission activities.
Turning now to Page 5 I will begin with a discussion of Missouri operations.
At Ameren Missouri early last month we filed a request with the Missouri PSC for an electric service rate increase to recover higher costs for providing our customers with more dependable energy from a cleaner and more diverse energy portfolio.
Nearly 1/2 of the $264 million annual request is for recovery of increased net energy costs that would otherwise be recovered through the Missouri fuel adjustment clause.
The balance of the request provides for a recovery of and a return on important new electric infrastructure investments to benefit our customers including investments for nuclear safety environmental controls new substations and renewable generation.
It also provides for recovery of the increased income and property taxes as well as rebates paid for customer-installed solar generation.
Ameren Missouri has worked aggressively to manage those costs that are under its control.
Our success in this area has led to electric rates that are the lowest of any investor-owned utility in Missouri and are well below the Midwest and national averages.
This disciplined cost management benefits our customers and is evident in this rate filing.
In particular our current request incorporates $67 million of annual reductions in operating costs since we're passing those savings on to our customers.
We expect the Missouri PSC to issue a decision in this case by May of next year.
Turning now to Page 6.
In addition to our pending electric rate case our Missouri regulatory team has also been busy addressing the electric rate shift and earnings complaint cases filed by Ameren Missouri's largest industrial customer Noranda which operates an aluminum smelter in the southeastern portion of the state.
In both of these cases the burden of proof is squarely on Noranda.
While Noranda's electric rate shift proposal is revenue-neutral to Ameren Missouri we believe Noranda's proposed rate reduction would lower its rates significantly below its cost of service.
This proposal is not justified would result in poor public policy and therefore is not in the best long-term interest of our other 1.2 million collective customers.
The Missouri PSC staff has agreed with this view and filed testimony stating that Noranda's proposed rate shift should not be approved.
Missouri PSC is scheduled to issue a decision this month.
Moving to the earnings complaint case Noranda has argued that Ameren Missouri's electric service rates should be reduced because we are earning a return on equity that Noranda alleges to be above the level it believes is appropriate.
The Missouri PSC staff has filed a testimony that clearly opposes Noranda's proposal that our rates be reduced.
And of course we strongly disagree with Noranda's claim and our recently filed electric rate case which I just discussed clearly demonstrates why our rates should be increased not reduced.
Hearings in the earnings complaint case were completed early last week and the Missouri PSC is scheduled to issue a decision in September.
I will conclude my Missouri update by discussing 4 key infrastructure projects that we expect to complete by the end of this year and which are included in the rate base amount used to compute our requested revenue requirement in the pending electric rate case.
To begin we will be replacing the reactor vessel head at our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center during our scheduled fourth quarter refueling and maintenance outage.
I am pleased to report that the new reactor vessel head arrived at the Callaway site in June and our team is in the final stages of preparing to complete this important safety project.
A second key project upgrading the electrostatic precipitators at our coal-fired Labadie Energy Center is scheduled for completion by year-end.
This added environmental equipment is being installed to ensure compliance with the U.S.
EPA's Mercury and Air Toxics Standards.
Third to enhance reliability in downtown St.
Louis we are scheduled to complete construction of a new substation also by year-end.
Finally construction of the O'Fallon Renewable Energy Center Missouri's largest investor-owned utility solar facility is underway and is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
Moving now to Page 7 and an update on our Illinois activities.
I will begin with electric and natural gas delivery services.
In June we installed our first AMI electric meters as part of our plan to deploy over 750 000 such smart meters through 2019.
The installation of these meters is a key component of our Illinois Modernization Action Plan or MAP.
This plan is made possible by the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act and resulting formula ratemaking for electric delivery service.
It is designed to benefit customers by significantly enhancing our Illinois electric delivery system growing Illinois' economy by creating well-paying jobs and providing our shareholders timely cost recovery of and a fair return on infrastructure investments we make to benefit our customers.
Along with the installation of AMI electric meters we are also installing approximately 450 000 automated natural gas smart meters.
The concurrent installation of electric and gas meters saves our customers money compared to their separate installation.
Over time the new electric meters along with other MAP upgrades will improve service by helping Ameren Illinois detect and isolate outages faster.
Further the new electric and gas meters will provide customers with more information and new tools and new programs to better manage their energy costs.
The gas meter installations like other gas delivery infrastructure investments are being made under our ratemaking framework which permits rates to be established using a future test year and provides an infrastructure rider for qualified investments.
We plan to begin using this rider next year.
Moving on to our Illinois electric delivery business we filed for a $205 million formula rate update.
This case is pending at the ICC.
The new rates will be effective in January of next year.
Marty will discuss this matter further a little bit later.
Finally I will provide you with an update on our FERC-regulated electric transmission operations.
We're in the early stages of construction of our largest single project the approximately $1.1 billion Illinois Rivers regional Multi-Value Project.
This 345-kilovolt transmission line will stretch from Eastern Missouri across the state of Illinois to Western Indiana.
Substation construction from right-of-way acquisition are underway and line construction is expected to begin later this year.
The first sections are expected to be completed in 2016 with the last section slated for completion by 2019.
Next I would like to update you on our Spoon River project another MISO-approved regional multi-value transmission line that will extend between Peoria and Galesburg Illinois.
This line is expected to be in service by 2018.
We have completed a series of open house meetings designed to inform area residents about the project and to receive input.
And we plan to request a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the ICC this month.
We expect a decision on this request in mid-2015.
Spoon River's cost is estimated at approximately $130 million to $150 million depending on the route approved by the ICC.
On the transmission rate front in November of last year a customer group filed a complaint case with FERC seeking a reduction in the allowed ROE for MISO transmission owners.
This complaint case could result in a reduction to Ameren Illinois' and ATXI's allowed ROE retroactive to November of last year.
Our allowed ROE is currently 12.38%.
In June 2014 in a separate proceeding FERC issued an order that reduced the base-allowed ROEs for New England transmission owners from 11.14% to 10.57%.
The order used market data from October 2012 to March 2013 to determine this new allowed ROE.
Although we believe some of the FERC's reasoning in the New England case may establish precedents for other cases it is not clear at this time to what extent if any the MISO ROE will be reduced.
In fact FERC has taken no action regarding the MISO case.
Turning to Page 8.
I would now like to discuss an important energy policy matter for our company and our country.
In early June the U.S.
EPA issued its Clean Power Plan a proposed rule governing carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants.
This proposal targets a 30% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from the power sector by 2030 based on 2005 emission levels and includes aggressive interim goals beginning in 2020.
Ameren believes the EPA's proposed rule is currently unworkable in many respects and will result in significant cost increases to our customers raise system reliability risks cost job losses and damage the economy.
We also believe that if this rule was finalized in its proposed form it would certainly be challenged in the courts.
To be clear at Ameren we are committed to transitioning to a cleaner more diverse energy portfolio but that must be done in a responsible fashion.
Indeed we have developed and are executing on a plan that will achieve the EPA's goals of reducing carbon emissions by 30% but we intend to complete that plan by 2035 as opposed to EPA's proposed 2030 date for its aggressive interim targets.
We will formally outline our plan in a Missouri Integrated Resource Plan filing this October.
Importantly our plan can be achieved at a cost that is significantly less than that of the EPA's proposal and will better protect jobs and the overall economic competitiveness of our region.
Looking ahead we will work in a constructive fashion with key stakeholders including the EPA to implement energy policies that will allow us to execute our transition plan for the long-term benefit of our customers our communities the environment and our shareholders.
Turning now to Page 9.
I would like to conclude my prepared remarks by discussing why I'm so firmly convinced that Ameren's positioned to deliver superior value to our shareholders and customers as we execute our well-defined strategic plan.
That plan calls for investing in and operating our utilities in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks as well as working to enhance those frameworks and advocating for responsible energy policies at both the federal and state levels.
Further we are focused on creating and capitalizing on opportunities to invest in our rate-regulated businesses for the benefit of our customers and shareholders.
On Page 10 we outline our plan to execute a key component of this strategy.
As shown at the top of this page we are allocating significant and growing amounts of discretionary capital to Ameren Illinois' energy delivery and our FERC-related electric transmission businesses so that we can improve the safety dependability and sustainability of the services we provide to our customers and because these businesses operate under modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
Our solid list of transmission projects is expected to increase our FERC-regulated transmission rate base by approximately 28% compounded annually for the 2013 to 2018 period.
In addition our Ameren Illinois investments are expected to contribute to projected Illinois electric and gas delivery rate base growth of 5% and 7% respectively on a compound annual basis over this period.
Our 5-year outlook in corporate's expected Missouri rate base growth at only a 2% compound annual rate reflecting the current state regulatory framework that is less constructive than those for our Illinois energy delivery and FERC-regulated electric transmission businesses.
Pulling all of this together we expect our overall rate base to grow at approximately 6% compounded annually from year-end 2013 through 2018 as shown at the bottom of this page.
Combining this rate base growth with strategic capital allocation and disciplined cost management including reductions in parent company and other costs we expect earnings per share to grow 7% to 10% compounded annually from 2013 through 2018.
Again thank you all for joining us.
And I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Marty? Thank you Warner.
Turning now to Page 12 of our presentation.
As Warner noted today we reported earnings for the second quarter of 2014 of $0.62 per share compared to $0.44 per share for the second quarter of 2013.
Key drivers of the earnings improvement are listed on this page.
The absence of a refueling and maintenance outage at our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center in this year's second quarter increased earnings by $0.08 per share.
The absence of another item the second quarter 2013 charge related to Missouri FAC treatment of certain prior period wholesale sales had a $0.06 per share positive impact on the comparison.
A third driver of the earnings improvement was this year's warmer early summer temperatures.
This warmer weather drove higher Missouri native load electric sales volumes and benefited earnings by an estimated $0.03 per share compared to the year-ago quarter and by an estimated $0.04 per share compared to normal temperatures.
On a weather-normalized basis we estimate that second quarter 2014 electric sales volumes to residential and commercial customers were essentially flat compared to the second quarter of 2013.
We estimate that these weather-normalized sales volumes would've grown but for energy efficiency programs.
And you will recall that the energy -- the earnings effect of Missouri's energy efficiency programs are offset by revenue recovery provided for under our Missouri PSC approved energy efficiency plan.
Electric sales volumes to industrial customers declined about 1.5% which was entirely due to lower Illinois electric delivery volumes which were down about 3%.
Our Illinois industrial customers are subject to formula ratemaking and margins on sales to these customers are relatively low.
Missouri industrial sales increased about 0.5% compared to the second quarter of last year and on a year-to-date basis.
Other factors contributing to the increase in the second quarter 2014 earnings compared to the second quarter of 2013 included decreased interest expense as well as increased rates.
Each January new rates are implemented for our FERC-regulated electric transmission services.
Under FERC's forward-looking formula-based ratemaking rates are adjusted to provide a recovery of and a return on that year's infrastructure investments as well as to reflect changes in operating cost.
Our Illinois natural gas delivery service rates were also increased effective January of this year.
This increase was based on a 2014 test year reflecting recovery of and a return on estimated 2014 rate base and changes in operating cost.
These positives were partially offset by a higher effective income tax rate.
Moving to Page 13.
As Warner mentioned we have affirmed our full year 2014 earnings guidance range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
Here we highlight select second half 2014 earnings per share considerations incorporated into our guidance range.
Let me begin with a discussion of weather.
Our 2014 earnings guidance assumes normal temperatures for the second half of this year but we do note that July 2014 temperatures were cooler than normal with cooling degree days down about 35% compared to normal conditions.
We still have 5 months of the year remaining including the balance of the summer and the winter weather we experience in the fourth quarter but we preliminary estimate July temperatures will reduce earnings by $0.05 to $0.10 per share compared to normal conditions.
While July temperatures are not incorporated in our guidance their effect would be accommodated by our guidance range.
Moving to other considerations we expect second half 2014 earnings to benefit from the previously discussed 2014 increases in rates for FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois gas delivery services.
Further Illinois electric delivery earnings are expected to increase by approximately $0.05 per share in the second half of this year compared to the second half of last year.
This reflects higher revenues recognized under formula ratemaking due to higher rate base and a higher allowed ROE this year compared to last year.
The allowed ROE for our Illinois electric delivery service is established by adding 580 basis points to the year's average 30-year treasury bond yield.
Our 2014 guidance now assumes a formula midpoint allowed ROE of 9.4% for Illinois electric delivery service a 50-basis-point reduction from the level incorporated into our initial guidance issued in February.
In addition we expect second half earnings to benefit compared to the second half of last year from lower interest expense largely due to the May maturity of $425 million of parent company senior notes with an 8.875% coupon.
We funded this maturity with low-cost short-term debt.
The final positive I would like to note is the absence of a fourth quarter 2013 Illinois debt redemption cost disallowance.
Factors that we expect to negatively affect the second half earnings comparison include expenses associated with the 2014 Callaway Energy Center nuclear refueling outage which will take place in the fourth quarter.
Further we expect increases in other operations and maintenance depreciation and property tax expenses for Missouri electric and gas service and Illinois gas delivery service in the second half of this year as compared to the second half of last year.
Finally we expect the full year 2014 effective income tax rate to be approximately 39.5% which is higher than last year's full year rate of 37.5% and also higher than the approximately 38.5% which was incorporated into our initial earnings guidance issued in February.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect that our effective income tax rate will be more in line with the level incorporated into this year's initial guidance range assuming no change in federal and state law.
Of course these are only some of the factors that will have an effect on our second half earnings comparison.
Turning to Page 14.
I will move from earnings to our updated 2014 free cash flow guidance.
We now anticipate 2014 negative free cash flow will be approximately $700 million compared to our guidance back in May of negative $775 million.
This change reflects improved cash flows provided by operating activities.
Our capital expenditure plans which are driving our earnings expectations are unchanged.
Regarding the Illinois Rivers project we plan to provide you with an updated cost on our fourth quarter call when we routinely update our 5-year capital spending plan.
The new estimate will incorporate the final ICC approved route which is somewhat longer than the originally proposed and accommodates certain property owner environmental concerns.
As I stated on our first quarter call we expect this new cost estimate to be modestly higher than the current estimate.
Moving now to Page 15.
Warner discussed our recently filed request for increased Missouri electric service rates.
We provide more details on this page.
As you can see the request is primarily driven by increased net energy costs which include fuel and purchased power costs net of off-system sales and our need to recover and earn a return on important new infrastructure investments made for the benefit of our customers.
Further we have significantly reduced operating costs and will pass these cost reductions on to our customers.
Schedule for the case has not yet been established but we expect the Missouri PSC to decide the case by May of next year and a new rate is expected to be effective in June 2015.
Turning to Page 16 a more detailed update on our pending Illinois electric delivery rate case.
I remind you that each year's Illinois electric delivery earnings are a function of that year's ending rate base the formula determined allowed return on equity and the ICC authorized equity ratio.
Illinois' formula ratemaking requires Ameren Illinois to file for annual rate updates to systematically update cash flows over time for changes in cost of service and to true up any prior period over- or under-recovery of such cost.
In April of this year Ameren Illinois filed an update case seeking an increase on electric rates to reflect 2013 actual cost expected 2014 infrastructure investments and changes in prior period over and under recovery balances.
The requested increase was updated in our rebuttal testimony filed Friday and is now $205 million a decrease of just $1 million from our initial request.
While the filing with the ICC would result in an increase in 2015 electric delivery service rates total electric bills in 2015 are still expected to remain below 2011 levels for most customers.
Because the parties have gained experience with Illinois' formula ratemaking and because we reached agreement with the ICC staff on key issues that were disputed in our prior formula rate cases the positions of the parties are closer to one another in this case than they have been in the past.
This is reflected in the testimony filed by the ICC staff and intervenors.
They have recommended annual revenue requirements that range from $3 million to $7 million less than our updated request.
An ICC order is expected by December of this year and new rates will be effective in January of next year.
Turning finally then to Page 17 I will summarize.
We are executing on a well-defined strategy as outlined by Warner.
Our second quarter 2014 earnings results were solid and we affirmed our earnings guidance range for this year.
Further we continue to expect earnings per share to grow at a 7% to 10% compound annual rate from 2013 through 2018.
This above peer group average growth rate is driven by our investment plan including our strong rate base growth strategic allocation of capital and disciplined cost management.
Further Ameren's $1.60 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with a yield of approximately 4%.
We believe this expected earnings growth coupled with our current dividend yield add up to a very attractive total return proposition for investors.
Finally we aspire to grow our dividend as earnings grow and expect our dividend payout to be between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Well I wonder first off -- obviously you made an announcement about Meramec.
I wondered if first with respect to your current contemplated CapEx budget how does that change anything? Obviously it's pretty long-dated.
And then secondly obviously your IRP is still coming up here but with respect to the balance of your portfolio I'm thinking Rush Island or others how could that eventually shift here as well? How are you thinking about compliance for those plants? Sure Julien.
This is Marty.
I'll start and see if anybody else or Warner wants to add anything.
But with respect to our overall capital expenditure plan that we've laid out for the 5 years that was in the slide Warner covered and we've shared previously really we don't see any change there resulting from the Meramec decision.
Really there the Meramec decision in the context of certainly the rate case filing is probably where the biggest impact is where we're looking to shorten up the depreciable life of Meramec to coincide with the expected retirement date of that plant.
And that's driving I guess about $17 million of the overall increase we're requesting as part of the Missouri rate case.
But overall no change in our capital expenditure plans.
And I'd say that in terms of how Meramec will impact our future generation resources and plans as well as other considerations regarding the rest of our fleet as you point out will really be laid out as part of our October Integrated Resource Plan filing.
And Julien this is Warner.
I think you asked a good question about Rush Island.
As Marty said we'll talk about the specifics of our Integrated Resource Plan in October.
But in general our objective is to take our existing coal-fired facilities and utilize them towards the end of their useful lives which is what we're doing with Meramec.
And that's how we would think about Rush Island as well.
And so we'll be able to spell that with out more specificity but we're not contemplating accelerating the retirement of our coal-fired units as part of our Integrated Resource Plan because we think that's in the long-term interest of our customers and the State of Missouri.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly on FERC obviously a lot of activity in the quarter.
First could you comment on potentially filing for incentives to the extent to which that the ROE itself gets adjusted here? And then secondly from your point of view what do you perceive the timeline is being for the MISO 206 at this point in time? This is Maureen Borkowski.
It's -- obviously we can't speculate on either a timeline or any results at FERC.
With regard to the question about incentives we obviously already have certain incentives like Quip for the Illinois River Spoon River and Mark Twain projects.
We are also we believe entitled to an extra 50-basis-point adder that's not included in the 12.38% MISO-based rate today.
We in our answer to the complaint that was filed in November asked FERC to affirm that we were entitled to that 50 basis points.
So obviously to the extent FERC chose to take some action at some point we believe we're entitled to that adder.
Research Division</strong> But just to be clear when would you file for that adder? Would that be subsequent to any resolution? I really can't speculate on that at this point.
As I said we actually did already request FERC to affirm that when we filed our answer.
So to the extent FERC took any action they may address it at that point.
Research Division</strong> Great excellent.
And then lastly on financing just at the parent any updated thoughts on timeline in terms of getting that done? And perhaps just more broadly I'm not sure I heard it how are you thinking about taking down the parent expense? Any updated thoughts there just post-Genco et cetera? No a fair question Julien but I wouldn't say any updated considerations.
I think as we pointed out in our talking points we were able to utilize commercial paper borrowings in order to handle the maturity of the $425 million parent company debt; obviously very low cost there associated with those commercial paper borrowings less than 50 basis points of ongoing cost.
We'll evaluate the need for and the amount of parent company financing long-term parent company financing over time both in terms of considering how much short-term debt we would ideally keep outstanding and then how much long-term funding we would need.
Longer -- certainly some of that parent company financing right now is really going to support the transmission build-out that is occurring.
And so longer term we'll be considering whether to issue the more permanent financing at the parent company or at the transmission company level.
And that's something that will play out over the next couple of years as we build out that transmission business.
So may or may not do some parent company long-term financing later this year or into next.
We'll be evaluating that through time.
In terms of other financing activities later this year we do still plan to issue additional long-term debt at our Ameren Illinois utility company; again there because of the capital expenditures for our electric and gas distribution businesses but also for some of the transmission growth that we're seeing there as well.
Our next question is from Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just give us an update on expected timing for your transmission plans relating to the integration of Entergy into MISO? And just more broadly milestones or other steps we should be on the lookout as you think further about growth in transmission? Obviously that -- this is Maureen again.
The -- any integration with regard to Entergy has to go through the MISO transmission expansion planning process.
We are actively engaged in that with the intent of identifying future projects that might both provide better reliability and integrate Entergy fully into the marketplace.
But that has to go through the timeline that MISO has established.
And I would add -- Steve this is Warner.
I would just add that Maureen and her team have been working actively on this not just for the last several months but frankly for the last year and will continue to do so.
As we even said in our last conference call we see real opportunities in MISO but also beyond MISO in PJM and SPP those transmission growth opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything specific in regards to upcoming MISO events or timelines that we should be focused on? I would say at this point in time the MISO planning process is like a 15-month process.
So the one that we're beginning now that we'll be actively studying the transmission opportunities for -- between Entergy and the rest of MISO would ultimately come to fruition at the end of 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And shifting gears just over to the proposed EPA carbon regulation.
Warner you've mentioned that as you looked at it it appeared to be a fairly unworkable rule as presented.
Can you talk a little bit more to the key issues that you see with the proposed EPA regulation? Yes sure Steven.
And I would probably put them in probably 2 or 3 buckets.
I think the most important bucket we should talk about is it's unworkable from a customer standpoint and in terms of the overall significant cost increases that they would result in.
We have a baseline plan that we have put together as part of our integrated resource planning effort.
So our team has been able to really compare what it would take to execute the greenhouse gas proposal compared to our baseline plan.
And as we identified it would be a significant cost increase to our customers.
And that's really driven by some of the -- what I will consider some of the more operational challenges associated with the overall proposal.
And you probably have heard and many of my colleagues who've been out there talking to the same thing about building blocks and some of the challenges that we -- that you have with those.
From our perspective you look at the plant efficiency building block looking for plant efficiencies of approximately 6%.
Simply put those aren't achievable.
Those aren't achievable.
We've taken a lot of efficiencies out of the plant.
We've already done a lot of those works.
To try and get an additional 6% is from our perspective just simply not achievable.
When you think about the uneconomic dispatch of natural gas which is another key driver of the increase look I think you have to think about the gas infrastructure first to support that but then the uneconomic dispatch and whether frankly states have the ability to dispatch in that way.
As you know the RTLs control that.
That's a tough nut to crack.
I'm not sure if that is ultimately going to be fact-based and whether we can execute that.
You look at energy efficiency which we have the largest energy efficiency program in the State of Missouri today.
To be able to get an incremental 1.5% out of that not only would drive higher cost but would certainly be no guarantee the customers ultimately would participate in that level.
And I would say lastly looking even at the renewable piece associated with the building block.
And again in Missouri in particular our ability to do renewables is under State law capped by the amount of renewables we can do in terms of impact on customer rates and ultimately the participants.
So when you look at those things all those factors really drive the operational issues that we have that drive the significant cost increases to our customers which as I said before not only causes us concerns there but also in terms of the economic competitiveness of our region and certainly the State of Missouri.
And lastly but not the least I think when you -- there's certainly been as I said we expect there to be legal challenges to the rule.
There are already.
And so we too share some of those concerns.
And so we put all those things together we have a rule when we put it all together that we believe is simply unworkable in its current form.
Now as I said too we -- our objective going forward is to continue to work constructively with key stakeholders both at the federal and state level including consumer groups and others to make sure and as well as the EPA to try and put in place energy policies that ultimately that will allow us to execute our transition plan which we believe is in the best long-term interest of our customers but also to ensure that we do the right things in the broadest economic sense for both the state and the region.
Our next question comes from Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just back on the FERC ROE case could you give us a little bit of a flavor of some of the differences you guys see in your situation versus New England that might not lead to the same outcome that we saw in New England? Paul I -- we laid all those out in testimony.
So I certainly would refer you to there.
I mean I think right now certainly there's more uncertainty because the FERC really hasn't established any kind of a timeline for the MISO case.
And therefore it's really uncertain when they'll take the case up assuming that they do take the case up and then what the data will look like at the time that that data is collected to determine the appropriate range of ROEs to consider.
So I think the biggest difference that I would point to is just timing and the uncertainty about when the FERC would potentially take the case up and how that might affect the data that underlies the ROE determination.
So I'd say that's the biggest factor.
Okay.
Just to make sure I understand though have you guys filed anything in response to the -- because there's a lot of stuff going on.
Have you guys filed anything in response to what FERC decided in the New England case? Or are you just referring to stuff that you filed previously in the back and forth? I was just referring to things we filed previously in the back and forth.
Hands on that specifically we could certainly you help offline.
But no we did not file anything specifically as a response or in reaction to the New England case.
Okay I appreciate that.
The second thing is with respect to the Noranda case what I'm a little bit confused by is why -- and I'm talking about the rate design case why the OPC and these other customer groups seem to be supporting the subsidy which I would assume will be coming from the customers that they're representing.
Do I understand that correctly or am I missing something? Or could you maybe fill me in on what's going on there? Yes this is Michael Moehn.
Yes it's hard to speculate.
Honestly it -- they are certainly representing consumers.
As we've argued all along in this case we don't think it's good policy.
It's not good for our customers because of the way it shifts the cost.
And it's hard to speculate why they're doing it but it absolutely is -- it doesn't seem to make sense and that's why we are absolutely so opposed against it.
Okay.
And then just 2 really quick ones.
I'm sorry I missed this but what was the weather normalized sales growth for Q2? And then with respect to Noranda tricks [ph] it looks like if the smelter closes does that change any way your CapEx plans with respect to load and what have you? Because your smelter sometimes use a lot of electricity.
I'm wondering if it closes does that make -- I don't know does that change what you might need to do with respect to certain plans and stuff? Sure I'll -- Paul it's Marty.
I'll try to take those in reverse order.
Certainly not speculating on Noranda's operations and any risk or potential for closure there but the -- your underlying -- I guess the bottom line question there is would it affect any of our CapEx plans? And the answer to that is no that there wouldn't be any change in our -- the CapEx plans that we've outlined over this 5-year period as a result of that.
Going back to your original question then which was about the sales and the economy.
I took the question out of order because I'll probably give a little more sort of lengthy explanation about what we're seeing in terms of sales and the economy.
When we started off the year you may recall that we expected sales to be down the residential and commercial about 1% and industrial overall down about 0.7%.
Year-to-date what we're actually seeing on a weather-normalized basis is that our residential and commercial customers are up about 0.5% and the industrial customers are actually down about 1.5%.
And again that's Ameren-wide.
And so as we think about the remainder of the year we've seen like I said a little bit more a positive in terms of residential and commercial through middle of the year.
We're factoring that in but still expecting that due to energy efficiency programs as well as federal lighting standards et cetera that the remainder of the year we would still expect to see sales lag the prior year.
So overall we're now expecting about residential and commercial to decline about 0.5% versus our initial beginning year guidance of negative 1%.
On the industrial front we still seem to see really manufacturing weakness particularly in Illinois.
And so we're expecting there for the full year to see industrial sales down about 1.4%.
So those are some of the factors that are going on.
Like I said the -- we're spending quite a bit on energy efficiency.
In Illinois we're spending about $85 million this year; Missouri about $50 million this year on energy efficiency.
And that is impacting sales.
The programs in Missouri have been ramped up here just in the past couple of years as a result of our energy efficiency program that was approved by the commission.
So we're seeing a pretty material impact there.
I mentioned that we saw residential commercial sales year-to-date up about 0.5%.
In Missouri we're actually seeing the residential and commercial sales down about 0.9%.
It's almost a full 1%.
But if you back out the effects of the energy efficiency programs that's probably equivalent to about 1% of actual sales growth.
So I guess what I'm trying to communicate there is absent the energy efficiency spending that we've got we're actually seeing pretty good growth in residential and commercial sales both in Missouri and Illinois.
And of course we are compensated for the energy efficiency impacts in Missouri.
On the industrial front I mentioned that the Illinois sales were down year-to-date.
They're down as we just talked about in the call almost 3%.
In Missouri we're actually seeing some continued expansion in terms of industrial sales.
What we're seeing in those sales up about 0.5% and there is some impact there again from energy efficiency.
They're probably up about a full 1% backing out the impacts of energy efficiency.
So we're continuing to see some good expansion of our industrial sales in Missouri.
And I guess my last point on all this is I do think that sort of reflects what we're seeing in the overall economy in the 2 states.
We're seeing an uptick in I'd say services jobs manufacturing jobs in Missouri seeing about a flat kind of trend in services jobs in Illinois a little bit of a decline in manufacturing jobs.
And that's kind of what we're seeing in the 2 states in both -- in terms of sales and in terms of jobs.
Our next question is from Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of easy ones and then one on the Missouri rate case.
Marty you made some comments about O&amp;M in the second half for the year.
Outside of the Callaway outage that sends an impact in the fourth quarter and that's more of just a timing issue what else is impacting O&amp;M? And is it up more than 1% or 2%? Paul it's -- or not Paul; I apologize.
Michael I apologize.
Yes just in terms of the O&amp;M we did comment on that just general growth across the business in terms of our distribution business our generation portfolio as well as just other areas like an increasing property taxes and the like.
So we're kind of seeing growth across those areas this year.
I don't have anything in terms of overall percentages for you but as we think about the rate case and the rate case that we filed in Missouri certainly those costs are picked up.
So the test year has an update period after December 31.
And as it relates to significant drivers let's say fuel cost or other elements of O&amp;M actually we'll reach out and pick up say January 1 kinds of cost increases.
So those things are built in.
And I pointed out in our discussion of our rate case filing that overall we're actually seeing a sort of -- while there's a rate increase being requested that's net of about a $67 million reduction in operations and maintenance costs.
So in that 2.5 years period from the last rate case to this rate case while there've been some elements of cost increase net we've been able to use continuous improvement efforts to drive costs out of the business and that's reflected in the rate case.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wanted to ask a little bit about the rate case only because I've thumbed through some of the detail earlier.
So I kind of think about the Missouri business and please correct me if I'm using wrong data here kind of a $7.6 billion $7.7 billion of total rate base for next year.
If you use kind of the authorized equity layers in the very low 50% range and kind of the ROEs that the commission has given over the last 1 or 2 cases kind of around 10% or so you kind of get close to about $400 million of authorized net income.
And if I look backwards a little bit like at 2012 or 2013 your UE segment kind of reported net income in that level.
So I just -- I wanted to kind of think about what's driving the actual need for the case.
Just kind of back of the envelope rate base math would imply you're not too far off from actually earning your authorized and may have been you had abnormal weather in some of those years or abnormally low costs that are now creeping up.
I just -- I wasn't really kind of sure I understood the puts and takes.
Well Michael I would say without knowing exactly what years you're looking at certainly the prior years' earnings when you pick them up on an as reported basis certainly do reflect fluctuations for things like weather for the timing of Callaway outages.
So certainly you can't really look at a calendar year earnings and assume those are sort of normalized and apples-to-apples for what might be achievable in a different year.
As it relates to the rate case itself and your earnings drivers I mean I think you were picking up the right things overall.
If you refer to Slide 15 in our slide deck we've outlined the drivers of our current rate case and we've shown there what we expect rate base to be at the end of this year around $7.3 billion.
We talked about the equity ratio we expect for the end of this year 51.6%.
And those are the real drivers of course of the earnings levels.
And then in part of the rate case process you normalize cost levels and sales levels and things of that sort.
But the real driver over time in terms of earnings of course is your rate base and the amount of rate base supported by your equity and your capital structure.
And as part of this rate case just going from the last rate case to this rate case as a result of $1.5 billion or so spending a rate base has actually increased about $500 million from the last rate case to this rate case.
That's the real driver of increased earnings in Missouri over time.
Our next question comes from Andy Bischof with Morningstar Research.
Research Division</strong> Any update on the Missouri legislative front in terms of reform on reducing regulatory lag among other things? No real update for you.
I'd again refer back to our last quarter's call and the transcript there where we were sort of right at the end of the legislative session and I think provided pretty fulsome comments about the situation there.
I think as we go through time I think as we've talked about we will continue to work to educate all stakeholders in the state about the need for and the importance of investment in our aging infrastructure in Missouri.
And in months like this like any other time of the year but particularly between active legislative sessions we're certainly doing our best to continue to make sure that we are doing the right outreach for stakeholders and education about the importance of good strong energy policy for the state of Missouri.
Research Division</strong> And I appreciate the what I understood are sales discussion.
Any -- how are customer account numbers looking in the quarter? Yes we continue to look at those.
Our residential and commercial accounts in Missouri were actually up.
I talked about it last time they're up slightly.
So less than 0.5%.
But nonetheless residential and commercial counts were up and I think that's a positive.
Over in Illinois residential accounts were down a little bit.
Though again just a small amount less than 0.5% but we did see commercial customer accounts actually grow by about 0.7%.
So overall I think those are good trends.
They're positive.
If you want I'll talk a little bit about the industrial sales.
I mentioned in Missouri that they're up in terms of industrial sales.
I mentioned about 0.5%.
And we are seeing good robust growth in areas like cement automotive food and agriculture those kinds of industrial customers.
And so that -- it's encouraging to see that industrial sales growth it's encouraging to see jobs grow and it's encouraging to see the customer accounts go up.
I think all those things seem to be moving in a positive direction.
In Illinois like I mentioned industrial sales have been down.
It's more there in steel and metals heavy equipment manufacturing.
Those are some of the industries that have seen declines in sales but as I mentioned not much of an impact right now on residential customer accounts down just a little.
And it's certainly encouraging to see commercial accounts still continue to grow.
There are no further questions at this time.
Would you like to make any closing remarks? Yes Warner does have one remark.
Yes thanks Doug.
A little bit earlier Stephen Byrd had asked me a question about the greenhouse gas proposal and elements that were unworkable and I outlined the concerns that we had in the building blocks.
And I just want to make sure I add one other important aspect and that relates to the target dates.
Now the headline is that it desires to have carbon emissions 30% below 2005 levels by 2030.
I think it's important to recognize that their interim aggressive interim target dates begin as early as 2020.
And so when you look at some of the challenges and the cost drivers it is indeed these interim target dates and the overall target date which really drives our costs up.
So I just want to make sure I added that to Stephen to your question.
And so we appreciate that.
Doug I'll turn it back over to you to wrap it up.
Okay.
Thank you Warner.
Thank you all for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for 1 year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
And our contact numbers are on today's news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers who may use terms or acronyms which are defined in the document.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts &amp; Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with comments on third quarter financial results and full year earnings guidance.
He will then provide a business update.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of third quarter results and provide updates on financial and regulatory matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a diluted and continuing operations basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here's Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced third quarter 2014 earnings of $1.20 per share compared to the year-ago quarter's earnings of $1.25 per share.
This earnings decrease primarily reflected milder summer temperatures in this year's quarter which reduced native load electric sales volume.
This lowered earnings by an estimated $0.06 per share compared to the year-ago quarter and by an estimated $0.09 per share compared to normal.
Marty will discuss other key drivers of third quarter earnings in a few minutes.
While the milder-than-normal third quarter temperatures erased most of the weather-related earnings benefits realized earlier in the year we remain on track to deliver strong earnings growth in 2014.
In fact earnings for the 9 months ended September 30 of this year were $2.21 per share an increase of $0.30 per share compared to the year-ago 9-month period.
As a result today we narrowed our earnings guidance range for this year to $2.30 to $2.45 per share from our prior range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
Turning to page 5.
We have also reaffirmed our longer-term earnings per share growth outlook of 7% to 10% compounded annually from 2013 to 2018.
In addition I am pleased to note that last month our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.41 per share resulting in a new indicated annual rate of $1.64 per share.
This is a 2.5% increase from the prior rate of $1.60 per share and reflects the increased financial stability that resulted from the disposition of the merchant power business and our confidence in the outlook for our regulated utility businesses.
Looking ahead we continue to expect our dividend payout ratio to be between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
Of course future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows economic and other business conditions.
And as I stated a moment ago we are focused on delivering strong earnings growth in the future as we execute our well-defined strategic plan.
Which takes me to Page 6 of the presentation.
Our strategic plan calls for investing in and operating our utilities in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks.
In addition we are working to enhance those frameworks as well as advocating for responsible energy policies at both the federal and state levels.
Finally we are focused on delivering superior sustainable long-term earnings growth by creating and capitalizing on opportunities to invest in our rate-regulated businesses for the benefit of our customers and shareholders.
Turning now to Page 7.
In line with our strategy we are allocating capital consistent with the various regulatory frameworks under which our utilities operate and our plan for doing so over the 5 years ending in 2018 is outlined on this page.
We are investing significant and growing amounts of discretionary capital in our FERC-regulated electric transmission activities at Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois and in Ameren Illinois' electric and natural gas delivery businesses.
We are doing so because these investments can improve the reliability safety and sustainability of the service we provide to our customers and because these businesses operate under modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
Further these investments benefit our regional economy by creating jobs.
Overall we have developed a solid list of projects at each of our subsidiaries and expect combined rate base to grow at a rate of approximately 6% compounded annually over the noted 5-year period.
We project that this rate base growth and capital allocation particularly to FERC-regulated transmission will lead to the strong earnings growth that I previously mentioned.
Moving now to Page 8.
I am very pleased to say that we are successfully implementing this 5-year investment plan.
In Missouri we are currently focused on completing several key projects.
We are replacing the reactor vessel head at our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center during its current refueling and maintenance outage which I'm happy to report is proceeding according to plan.
We're also installing additional environmental controls at our Labadie Energy Center and placing into service the largest investor-owned solar facility in the state.
These projects are expected to be in service by year end so that they along with recently completed substations like the one shown on the cover of this presentation can meet our customers' energy needs and expectations as well as be included in the rate base used to compute the revenue requirement in our pending electric rate case.
Reflecting these and other projects our rate case filing includes rate base additions of approximately $500 million compared to those included in our prior rate order in late 2012.
In Illinois we continue to implement our electric and natural gas distribution system modernization action plan.
Our customers have already experienced improvements in service quality including reliability as a result of the investments we are making.
This modernization plan includes the installation of approximately 780 000 advanced electric meters and approximately 470 000 advanced natural gas meter modules.
Since we began the effort this summer we have installed approximately 17 000 new electric and 5 000 new gas meter modules as part of the initial stage of this multiyear effort.
And we expect these installations to reach at least 40 000 and 25 000 respectively by year end.
In addition our FERC-regulated electric transmission activities continue to grow with projects at both Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois proceeding on schedule.
In fact we have invested approximately $375 million in such transmission projects over the first 9 months of this year on our way to a planned investment of more than $525 million for the full year.
This includes Illinois Rivers the largest of our transmission projects where construction has started on 7 of 10 substations and real estate easements have been obtained on 40% of the properties along the route.
In addition foundation construction on one line segment has begun and clearing on another line segment is well underway.
Of course execution of our strategic plan requires successfully managing rate cases to recover and earn fair returns in the investments we're making to benefit customers as well as addressing other regulatory matters.
In Missouri we are squarely focused on achieving a constructive conclusion to the $264 million electric rate case we filed in July.
The key driver of this rate request is capital projects including those I mentioned earlier.
In Illinois our annual proceeding for updating electric delivery formula rates is nearing conclusion.
Based on the recent administrative law judges' recommendation in this case I expect that we will achieve a constructive outcome.
Marty will provide more details on these regulatory matters a bit later.
Finally to mitigate rate increases for our customers and to maximize value for our shareholders we remain relentlessly focused on operational improvement and disciplined management of our costs.
A good example of our progress in this area is the award won by Ameren Missouri's largest coal-fired energy center Labadie.
In August of this year Navigant recognized Labadie as the top-performing large-unit coal-fired energy center in the United States based on detailed analysis of cost performance and safety data.
Another example of our focus on cost management is the $0.07 per share reduction in parent and other operating costs we achieved for the 9 months ended September 30 of this year compared to the year-ago period.
Turning now to Page 9.
In addition to the progress we are making in executing our plans for the current 5-year period we are focused on creating and capitalizing on additional opportunities beyond 2018.
Our Illinois Modernization Action Plan is a 10-year plan designed to extend through 2021.
With the support of continued constructive ratemaking we expect to continue to make significant investments under this plan to enhance the reliability and safety of our electric and gas delivery systems in Illinois.
Further we are pursuing additional FERC-regulated electric transmission projects in the Midwest region beyond those included in our current 2014 through 2018 investment plan.
We have the exclusive right to build the projects already included in our current 5-year plan.
Future projects may include those we have the exclusive right to build as well as regional and interregional projects that would be subject to competition under FERC Order 1000.
We are particularly focused on Order 1000 projects that would resolve transmission system issues in and around Ameren's traditional service territory including projects in and between MISO Central MISO South PJM and SPP.
Our transmission development team continues to actively respond to competitive solicitations at the regional and interregional levels that are conducted by MISO PJM and SPP and have submitted many project solutions.
These regional transmission organizations are expected to make awards in these solicitations as soon as the end of next year.
Finally in Missouri we have numerous opportunities for additional investment.
These include the installation of new advanced meters and replacement of aging transmission and distribution infrastructure.
We also have the opportunity to make investments to transition to a cleaner more diverse generation portfolio in a responsible fashion including further environmental controls on our existing coal-fired energy centers and the addition of renewable and gas-fired combined cycle generation capacity.
We believe these longer-term opportunities for investment will benefit customers by improving reliability safety market efficiency and the environment.
Turning to Page 10.
Speaking of electric generation and the environment Ameren Missouri filed its integrated resource plan or IRP with the Missouri Public Service Commission last month which it does every 3 years.
This document details our assessment of the electric energy needs of our customers for the coming 20 years and puts forward our preferred plan for meeting those needs.
The 2014 IRP outlines our plan to deliver safe reliable and reasonably priced electricity to our customers while transitioning Ameren Missouri's generation fleet to a cleaner and more diverse portfolio in a responsible fashion.
It includes expanding renewable generation retiring coal-fired generation capacity as this capacity reaches the end of its useful life and adding cleaner-burning natural gas-fired combined cycle generation.
Further we expect to continue to offer significant levels of energy efficiency programs under the constructive regulatory framework in Missouri for these investments and to begin to offer demand response programs.
As noted on Page 10 we project that our preferred plan will acquire an investment of approximately $4.5 billion over the 20-year period for new generation and environmental controls.
This amount is in addition to investments Ameren Missouri anticipates making to maintain and improve its existing energy centers and its transmission and distribution systems.
As we have stated in the past the level and timing of these investments will be influenced by the regulatory framework in place to support investment in energy infrastructure.
Our preferred plan is projected to achieve the ultimate carbon emissions reductions proposed by the U.S.
EPA this past summer in its Clean Power Plan by 2035 rather than the EPA's final target date of 2030 or its aggressive interim target dates beginning in 2020.
Our plan will achieve these significant carbon emission reductions at a cost to customers that is estimated to be $4 billion less than what would be incurred to meet the EPA's proposal.
In addition our plan would provide us with important operational flexibility to address changes in customer energy demand changes in technology and new regulations among other things.
Finally our approach would significantly mitigate potential regional reliability risks that have been raised by many in our industry.
That is why we are aggressively advocating for energy policies at both the federal and state levels which support the implementation of our preferred plan.
We do so because we simply believe it is the right things to do for our customers the environment and our shareholders.
By December 1 we will file comments with the EPA on their proposed rule.
Our comments will focus on several key issues including the aggressive interim target dates and their impact on customer costs and system reliability as well as the challenges associated with the EPA's 4 building blocks among other things.
We look forward to working in a constructive fashion with key stakeholders including the EPA on this important energy policy matter.
And to be clear should the EPA's proposed regulation withstand the legal challenges it will certainly face and ultimately require us to reduce our carbon emissions in a manner different than our preferred plan we expect that our prudent investments to comply with these regulations will be fairly treated by our regulators as they have been in the past.
In closing we are successfully executing our strategy across the board.
And I'm firmly convinced that this will enable us to deliver superior long-term value to our customers and our shareholders.
Again thank you all for joining us.
And I'll now turn the call over to Marty.
Marty? Thank you Warner.
Turning now to Page 12 of our presentation.
As Warner noted today we reported earnings of $1.20 per share for the third quarter of 2014 compared to $1.25 per share for the third quarter of 2013.
Key drivers of this earnings decline are listed on this page.
We experienced much milder-than-normal temperatures in the third quarter of this year with cooling degree days falling 10 percent below those of the year-ago quarter and 14% below normal in our service territories.
As a result native load electric sales volumes declined reducing earnings by an estimated $0.06 per share compared to the third quarter of last year and by an estimated $0.09 per share compared to normal.
Other factors contributing to the decrease of the third quarter 2014 earning from the year-ago quarter included a higher effective tax rate and increased depreciation and amortization expenses.
The earnings comparison was positively affected by increased rates for FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois natural gas delivery services both effective at the beginning of this year as well as decreased interest charges.
Moving then to Page 13.
As Warner also mentioned our full year 2014 earnings guidance range is now $2.30 to $2.45 per share.
On this page we highlight select fourth quarter 2014 earnings per share considerations incorporated into this guidance.
First we expect fourth quarter 2014 results to benefit from the previously discussed 2014 increases in rates for FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois natural gas delivery services.
Second Illinois electric delivery earnings under formula ratemaking are expected to increase compared to the year-ago fourth quarter.
This reflects expected higher revenues recognized under formula ratemaking as a result of higher rate base among other things.
The allowed ROE for our Illinois electric delivery service is established by adding 580 basis points to the year's average 30-year treasury bond yield.
Given the level of 30-year treasury bond yields for the year-to-date and the consensus estimate for the balance of the year our 2014 guidance now incorporates a formula midpoint allowed ROE of 9.2% which is comparable to last year's allowed ROE.
Other factors expected to benefit the fourth quarter earnings comparison include lower interest expense reflecting the maturity this past May of high-coupon parent company senior notes which was funded with low-cost short-term debt.
The final positive I would like to note is the absence this year of a fourth quarter 2013 ICC debt redemption cost disallowance of $0.04 per share.
Factors that are expected to negatively affect the fourth quarter earnings comparison include expenses associated with the ongoing Callaway Nuclear Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage.
This is expected to reduce fourth quarter earnings by approximately $0.09 per share.
Further our earnings guidance assumes normal temperatures for the fourth quarter which would reduce earnings by an estimated $0.04 per share compared to the year-ago quarter.
In addition other operations and maintenance as well as depreciation and amortization expenses are expected to increase compared to the year-ago quarter.
Finally we continue to expect the full year effective income tax rate will be approximately 39.5%.
Of course these are only some of the factors that will have an effect on the fourth quarter earnings comparison.
Before moving to the next page I do want to note that free cash flow after dividends as defined on Page 19 of the appendix is now anticipated to be negative by approximately $820 million for 2014.
Turning then to Page 14.
I'll provide a brief update on certain recent and pending regulatory matters.
I'm pleased to note that the Missouri Public Service Commission has denied the electric rate shift and earnings complaint cases filed earlier this year each by unanimous votes of 5 to 0 in orders issued in August and October.
The regulatory focus regarding Ameren Missouri is now clearly on the pending request for a $264 million increase in annual electric service rates.
This request is driven by increased net energy cost electric infrastructure investments made for the benefit of our customers recovery in rebates paid for customer-installed solar generation and is net of significant reductions in operating cost.
The next key milestone in the filing of direct -- is the filing of direct testimony by the Missouri PSC staff and intervenors which is due by December 5.
The PSC's hearings in this case are scheduled to begin in late February of next year with a commission decision anticipated by May and new rates are expected to be effective by June.
Moving to Illinois regulatory matters.
As Warner mentioned our annual electric delivery formula rate update filing is pending at the ICC.
While this filing would increase 2015 electric delivery service rates by $205 million total electric bills in 2015 are still expected to remain below 2011 levels for most customers.
I'm pleased to report that last Friday the ICC administrative law judges issued a constructive recommendation in this case.
They supported a rate increase of $204.5 million an amount nearly equal to our request.
An ICC decision in this case is expected by December of this year with new rates to be effective in January of next year.
Finally at the FERC a customer group filed a complaint case in November of last year seeking a reduction in the current MISO base allowed ROE of 12.38% which is the current allowed ROE for Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois transmission service.
This case could result in a reduction to this rate retroactive to the complaint filing date.
Last month the FERC issued an order setting the base ROE issue in this case for settlement discussions and if necessary hearing.
However it denied all other aspects of the complaint.
We do not expect this case to be decided until at least sometime in 2015.
Further we believe Ameren Illinois and Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois are eligible for an adder of up to 50 basis points to their allowed base ROEs to reflect their voluntary membership in a regional transmission organization and plan to request such an adder from FERC shortly.
Moving to Page 15 of our presentation.
As next year approaches we want to let you know that we plan to provide 2015 earnings guidance and update our longer-term earnings outlook when we release fourth quarter 2014 earnings in February of next year.
However today we are providing a list of select items to consider as you think about our earnings for next year.
Increased Missouri electric service rates are expected to be implemented by June 2015 as a result of our pending rate case.
Our rate increase request is driven in part by our need to recover and earn a return on new infrastructure investments including the key projects Warner discussed earlier which are expected to be placed in service by the end of this year.
Since new rates are not expected to be effective until June of next year regulatory lag resulting primarily from these investments will be experienced during the first half of 2015.
Further no Callaway Nuclear refueling outage is scheduled in 2015 as these outages are on an 18-month cycle with the next one scheduled for the spring of 2016.
For Ameren Illinois electric delivery service we anticipate increased earnings in 2015 compared to 2014 under formula ratemaking due to higher rate base reflecting infrastructure investments.
We also expect to begin using the Illinois natural gas delivery infrastructure rider in 2015 which is anticipated to have a positive impact on earnings.
Earnings from our FERC-regulated electric transmission activities are expected to benefit under forward-looking formula ratemaking from higher rate base from investments in reliability projects at Ameren Illinois and multi-value regional projects at Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois.
Another factor that could affect the level of 2015 transmission earnings is the possibility of a change in the allowed ROE as I previously discussed.
Regarding parent and other cost we expect a full year of interest cost savings related to the May 2014 maturity of parent company notes.
And finally as we mentioned on our August earnings call we forecast our 2015 effective income tax rate will be about 1 percentage point lower than the expected 2014 level.
Turning finally to Page 16 I will summarize.
As Warner discussed we remain on track to deliver strong 2014 earnings growth and are successfully executing our strategy.
Further we believe Ameren shares offer investors an earning growth outlook and dividend yield which are both above peer group averages.
Earnings per share expected to grow a strong 7% to 10% compounded annual growth rate from 2013 through 2018.
Further Ameren's recently increased annualized dividend rate of $1.64 per share provides investors with a high current yield of approximately 3.8%.
In our view this earnings growth coupled with our dividend yield add up to a very attractive total return potential for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the -- I just want to settle -- I want to check out the FERC stuff a little bit here.
The -- one of the things that came out of the order seemed to be sort of they dismissed the complaint -- one of the complainants' issues regarding the equity level.
And I was wondering if you could remind us what the equity level is currently at the transmission business and whether that could be changed as a result of this.
Well the -- Paul this is Marty.
In terms of the equity level during construction we do have the ability to use hypothetical cap structure with equity of 56% in that cap structure and so that is what is being used.
And then as projects actually go into service then they have the cap structure that is in whatever legal entity that they sit within.
And so for example within AIC right now the equity structure is a little north of 50% in terms of where the equity sits in that cap structure.
So there probably wouldn't be much of a change do you think? Or could there be as a result of the FERC ruling that sits [indiscernible]? I don't anticipate a significant change in the way we capitalize the business in light of the FERC's ruling.
Okay.
And then the ROE the 50 basis points when do you see that? I know you guys are going to file for it shortly.
When do you see that coming into effect? Would that be when the ROE situation is finally settled? Well I think we'll wait and let the filing speak for itself.
It is a filing not only our own filing but with other transmission owners.
And we don't want to get ahead of that filing and what we're asking for there.
We do think that this language that was in the recent FERC order reaffirmed that that adder is appropriate and needed.
There's language in there that basically said the adder's intended to incent continued participation in the RTOs.
And we think that was favorable language supportive of our view that indeed we're eligible for that 50 basis point adder.
So that filing was made shortly.
And then the FERC based on history had taken up consideration of that generally within a 60-day period.
So again we'll let the filing speak for itself and can certainly answer questions once it's been filed.
Okay.
And then finally on the MISO-PJM or the -- there were several opportunities you guys saw in terms of FERC Order 1000.
And one of them was transmission between MISO and PJM I believe.
And I was just wondering if you -- if there were any specific projects that had sort of been identified and sort of the timing that you guys think you might participate in terms of such a project and just any details you have on that or any -- could you just elaborate on that a little bit? Sure Paul.
And I think for that question we'll let Maureen Borkowski who's the CEO of that business speak to that question.
Paul this is Maureen.
We've been participating actively and proposing project solutions in PJM and in the cross-border MISO PJM solicitations.
There's actually a window that's just opened that we'll be continuing to participate in.
We've proposed dozens of different solutions to date.
There are still I think 1 or 2 that are still pending for further consideration.
But we're continuing to populate that -- those project proposals as PJM opens study windows.
So I'd say just to stay tuned.
We certainly continue to participate.
And as they go through their refinement process of selecting which products move forward we expect to have some.
What's the next key data point we should think about Maureen? In terms -- What do you think would be the next in terms of timing we might see more clarity as to what might actually be selected? Well you'll certainly see the volume of proposals should be public -- the window is open now so over the next several weeks more projects will be coming in.
After the first of the year PJM will be doing more refinement in their planning processes looking at which ones meet their criteria to move forward.
So I would say first quarter of next year there might be some indication of which projects are moving.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on some of Paul's questions.
Do you guys have any kind of indication or any kind of inclination as to how many -- how much money some of these PJM MISO and SPP seams issues might cost? What's the size of the opportunity we're looking at here? Michael this is Marty.
We haven't really spoken to I'd say the size of the opportunity broadly.
We have said that we've proposed tens of projects in various regions around our service territory and whether that be with PJM MISO SPP projects ranging anywhere individually from $50 million to $500 million.
So we have said that but not really spoken to I'd say universally what the breadth of the opportunity is.
Research Division</strong> Do you guys think a settlement in the ROE complaint is a possibility? The settlement in the ROE certainly it's a possibility.
We and I would imagine other transmission owners certainly plan to take those settlement discussions seriously and we'll see where they take us.
Ultimately if that process does fail to produce an outcome that is appropriate or I guess is reasonable to all parties then obviously we'll go to hearing which would likely take a while.
And again either way we think as we said on our prepared remarks would extend into 2015 and I would say quite possibly beyond although I think definitely into 2015.
Research Division</strong> And one final question.
On the IRP.
Can you discuss a little bit about some of the factors that are going into your decision-making on plant retirements? And also how much of the spending in the IRP that's beyond 2020 how much of that could theoretically and possibly be accelerated into the 2015 to 2020 range? Yes sure.
This is Marty.
I'll take that one again.
So on the slide that we provided on Slide 10 we laid out some of the investments that may be required as we implement our preferred plan that's laid out in the IRP.
I would say generally with respect to our coal-fired power plants the goal of the IRP and something we think's appropriate is to be able to run those plants and benefit from that capacity through the end of their useful lives.
So that's one of the things that's sort of a foundation of our preferred plan.
But along the way as you see investing in wind solar landfill gas and some hydro projects as laid out on Slide 10 of our materials we did break some of the potential capital expenditures down into 2 buckets one bucket for the next 10 years and then the 10 years beyond that mainly because the IRP filing is a 20-year look a 20-year plan.
I would say some of the investments that are in that first 10 years are embedded in our current capital expenditure and rate base growth guidance that we've provided.
There's some that would be incremental to that.
Much of that investment in that 10-year period would fall into the 5-year period beyond the current 5-year period we're in so basically rate base growth beyond the current 5-year period.
As Warner discussed on the call to the extent that the EPA's Clean Power Plan was ultimately put into effect in its current form and of course Warner spoke to the various legal and practical concerns with that plan but as we mentioned if it was put into place the interim targets by 2020 with ultimate carbon reductions by 2030 we've said that would have potential impact on our customers of $4 billion.
It would also require us to invest by 2020 an incremental $2 billion in additional infrastructure and rate base.
So again we filed our IRP we're advocating for our preferred plan but ultimately we're going to stay flexible and certainly continue to engage in discussions with EPA and other stakeholders around the Clean Power Plan.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Is there any -- what's the status of discussions in Missouri about a legislative fix to lag? Is that just kind of dormant right now? We'll let -- we have with us this morning Michael Moehn who's the CEO of the Ameren Missouri business and we'll let him provide some comments on that.
Yes it's certainly not dormant.
I mean we continue to talk to key legislators and key stakeholders about the aging infrastructure issue we have Missouri.
As I sit here today I don't have necessarily a decision on what we're going to do going into this legislative session.
But we remain committed to trying to find ways to address that lag either through the legislative arena or through the regulatory arena.
But we definitely are spending a lot of time educating folks about that issue.
Research Division</strong> And when does the session start up again? January 2015.
Research Division</strong> January.
Okay.
And then just your 7% to 10% CAGR how lumpy is that? And is the biggest source of lumpiness kind of Callaway outages? No.
The 7% to 10% -- this is Marty again.
The 7% to 10% growth obviously is driven by -- primarily by rate base growth.
As you've seen our rate base growth charted about 6% rate base growth between 2013 and 2018.
So I'd say there's a little bit of lumpiness along the way that has to do with the timing of the capital expenditures there'll be a little bit of lumpiness due to the timing of rate cases and there'll be a little bit of lumpiness as you say along the way in earnings due to the Callaway refueling outage schedules.
So we've got one ongoing right now as we mentioned on the call we don't have one next year and then again in 2018 we would not have one in 2018.
So as you're well aware on an 18-month cycle for those refueling outages but certainly there will be a little bit of lumpiness in earnings from year to year for the reasons I described.
Research Division</strong> And so next year we should have a $0.09 pickup on Callaway? Yes that would be right.
So we have a $0.09 negative impact here in the fourth quarter from that refueling outage.
There won't be one next year so we would expect to see a $0.09 pickup for Callaway.
And then as I described in the earnings drivers for next year I referred you to that slide there's a number of pluses and minuses for next year but certainly that's a plus.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- you said that next year's tax rate is expected to be 38.5%? Yes that's a good point and I think an important one.
We have an effective tax rate projected for this year of 39.5%.
And that compares last year we actually finished the year at about 37.5%.
And so in our third quarter and you'll expect in the fourth quarter to have a little bit of a negative delta of this year versus last.
But next year we expect that to trend back to 38.5% which is frankly where our longer-term expectations are.
So I think that 38.5% is sort of a good thing to think about in terms of model.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of David Paz of Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to check on the sales growth.
What was the weather-adjusted sales growth by class in the third quarter? And just what you expect for the full year '14? Yes David that's a very good question.
I appreciate you asking and I'll give you -- it's a bit of a more long-winded answer than you might expect.
But I think generally some positive trends and some positive data that we do have to report.
When you look at the sales data in the statistics page you will see a decline.
Of course part of that is weather as you point out.
But part of it I think you've got to remember too has to do with the energy efficiency programs we have in Missouri.
And those energy efficiency programs we do believe are very fair constructive programs where we are made whole for the impacts the cost and the impacts of that energy efficiency and even to some extent are provided incentives.
So getting to your question though looking at the third quarter data on a weather-normalized basis the residential and commercial sales were down about 0.8% and the industrial was down about 0.9% which on the surface is not appealing.
But when you actually again peel that back and you look at for example in Missouri the residential weather-normalized sales are down 1.1% but energy efficiency spending and investment is really causing most to that.
Excluding the energy efficiency impact residential sales are actually be up 1%.
And again we're being compensated for that energy efficiency impact.
So again normalized for weather and energy efficiency up 1%.
Commercial sales on a weather-normalized basis -- and these are year-to-date numbers by the way that residential number.
Commercial sales weather-normalized is down about 0.6%.
But again if you exclude the impacts of energy efficiency it was pretty flat.
And then in terms of our industrial sales you'll recall in Missouri in the first 2 quarters we had industrial sales increases in the third quarter.
We did see a little bit of a decline but that was solely related to a dip in usage at Noranda.
On their earnings call a couple of days ago indicated that they had some temporary production issues that I believe were probably causing that.
Excluding that Noranda impact on a year-to-date basis our industrial sales are actually up 0.5% and again normalized for energy efficiency are up 1.1%.
So we're really seeing growth again in Missouri in all of those classes residential commercial and industrial when normalizing for not only weather but for the energy efficiency.
In Illinois some positive trends there.
Weather-normalized residential sales up 1.5%.
And they've been up across all 3 quarters.
Commercial sales up 0.7% year-to-date.
And then as we've reported previously industrial sales have been off nearly 2% and we've gone through some of the industrial categories that factor into that in prior calls.
But overall I'd say that trends are positive and I'd say economically we're seeing housing starts in our service territory have been on an upward trend unemployment has been coming down near to the national averages around 6% manufacturing jobs have been stable services jobs have been growing those were all positive and our residential customer counts are up in both states and our commercial customer accounts are up in both states.
So really some positive trends that we're seeing kind of across the board.
LLC</strong> Great.
Very helpful.
Just a quick question on the weather impact versus normal year-to-date.
Can you just remind me what that is? Yes.
If you look at the Page 18 of our slide deck year-to-date the temperatures are having a negative -- excuse me a positive 2% -- $0.02 versus normal.
So year-to-date again temperatures $0.02 positive versus normal.
LLC</strong> I see.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just last one.
Remind me please your 7% to 10% EPS CAGR is based off of what year and what number? That was based on 2013 David.
So that's 2013 through 2018 compound annual growth rate.
LLC</strong> So is that based just the reported 2013 or is it adjusted for any outages or weather impact? No.
It's continuing at reported continuing operations.
So it is a GAAP number and it's 2013 through 2018.
And I'd say the only thing we've done there is obviously taken out discontinued operations.
At this time I'd like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
This is Doug Fischer.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for 1 year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today's news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all of the participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for the Ameren Corporation.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our Web site at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our Web site a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers who may use terms or acronyms that are defined in the presentation.
To access this presentation please look in the Investor section of our Web site under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation; I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with an overview of 2014 results and our outlook for 2015 and beyond.
Marty will follow with a more detailed financial and regulatory update.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a continuing operations and diluted share basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here is Warner who will begin on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced 2014 earnings of $2.40 per share within the upper end of our 2014 guidance range.
This represents a 14% increase over 2013 results.
This strong earnings growth reflected increased Illinois electric delivery and FERC-regulated transmission earnings under formula ratemaking which were driven by infrastructure investments made to better serve our customers.
The earnings comparison also benefited from increased rates for Illinois natural gas delivery decreased interest charges the substantial elimination of parent company costs previously allocated to the divested merchant generation business and the absence of Missouri fuel adjusted clause-related charge taken in 2013.
Marty will discuss these and other 2014 earnings drivers in a few minutes.
Turning to Page 5; last year at this time we discussed how excited we were about our strategy for investing in and growing our rate-regulated electric and gas utilities in order to provide superior value to our shareholders and customers.
Today I'm pleased to report on our successful execution of the strategy in 2014.
The first element of our strategy is to invest in and operate our utilities in a manner consistent with existing regulatory frameworks.
Towards this end in 2014 we allocated significant amounts of discretionary capital to those businesses where investment is supported by regulatory frameworks that provide fair predictable and timely cost recovery.
Our customers are seeing tangible results from these investment activities.
In particular we invested more than $1 billion in our FERC-regulated transmission in Illinois electric and natural gas delivery infrastructure to better serve our customers.
Ameren Transmission Company of Illinois or ATXI began construction of the Illinois Rivers project and achieved all planned 2014 milestones.
Plan rights were obtained for approximately half of the properties along the projects route.
Construction was begun on six of the 10 substations and nearly all of the foundations on an initial line segment were completed.
In addition Ameren Illinois installed almost 47 000 new electric and 26 000 upgraded gas meters exceeding the first-year goal of its advanced metering infrastructure project.
Further Ameren Missouri placed into service several key infrastructure projects by year end including the new reactor vessel head at the Callaway Energy Center additional environmental controls at the Labadie Energy Center a major substation in St.
Louis and the largest investor-owned solar generation facility in the state.
These projects are already serving customers improving reliability and providing energy from cleaner generation sources and they're eligible for inclusion in new rates expected to be effective by early June of this year.
We also achieved notable regulatory successes last year including a constructive outcome in our Illinois electric delivery rate case.
In this case the Illinois Commerce Commission authorized a rate increase of $204 million an amount that was within $1 million of our updated request demonstrated that the formula ratemaking framework is working as intended.
Even with this rate increase rates are still expected to remain below 2011 levels for most customers.
Finally we remain relentlessly focused on operational improvement and disciplined cost management as reflected in the significant reduction in parent company costs.
The second element of our strategy is to enhance regulatory frameworks and advocate for responsible energy policies.
On this front the Illinois General Assembly overwhelmingly passed legislation extending the constructive formula-based electric delivery rate framework by two years through the end of 2019.
This legislation is now been submitted to Governor Rauner.
Further we aggressively advocated for responsible energy polices notably in the environmental area.
In particular we raised concerns regarding the impact on customer's rates and electric liability of the environmental protection agencies proposed Clean Power plan.
But we did more than just raise concerns; we offered pragmatic solutions to address these important concerns in our comments to the EPA's proposed rules in December.
EPA is expected to finalize its rules later this year.
Regarding the third element of our strategy creating and capitalizing on opportunities for investment for the benefit of our customers and shareholders I will highlight three areas of activity.
In October we filed an updated integrated resource plan with the Missouri Public Service Commission outlining our ongoing transition to a cleaner and more fuel-diverse generation portfolio in a responsible fashion for the next 20 years.
This plan maximizes the use of our current coal-fire generation fleet for the benefit of our customers while leveraging energy efficiency and investments in renewables environmental controls and gas-fired generation to meet future needs in an environmentally balanced manner.
And the plan also includes extending the useful life of our Callaway Nuclear Energy Center from 40 to 60 years.
Our preferred plant is also projected to achieve the ultimate carbon emission reductions proposed by the EPA in its Clean Power Plan by 2035 rather than EPA's final target date of 2013 or its aggressive interim target dates beginning in 2020.
Importantly our plan will significantly reduce reliability issues and economic cost of the Clean Power Plan for our customer while still achieving significant carbon emission reductions.
Next our transmission team continues to identify reliability projects that are important for customers here in our service territory while pursuing additional competitive investment opportunities both here and beyond as we work to leverage our success as an experienced transmission developer and operator.
Finally we will continue to move forward in executing our Illinois Modernization Action Plan or MAP.
We're upgrading our electric and natural gas delivery systems.
Turning now to Page 6; in summary the successful execution of our strategy last year delivered positive results for both our customers and shareholders.
On the operating front it was just another year of solid safety performance as well as strong electric distribution system reliability and base load energy center performance.
In addition our electric rates remained well below regional and national averages and customer satisfaction improved.
Moving to financial performance we delivered strong earning's growth in 2014 as I've previously mentioned.
Ameren as a whole also earned a higher return on equity.
Further the Board of Directors expressed confidence in our long-term outlook by increasing our quarterly dividend while we maintain financial strength and flexibility.
I'm pleased with the progress we made last year and we're continuing the momentum into this year.
Turning now to Page 7; we anticipate that 2015 will be another year of solid earnings growth but results are expected to be in a range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
The primary growth drivers are noted on this page and Marty will discuss them in more detail in few minutes.
Turning to Page 8; here we note key areas of focus for this year as we continue to execute our strategic plan.
Our FERC-regulated transmission businesses will advance the regional multi-value and local reliability projects included in our 2015 through 2019 capital investment plan.
Further our transmission team continues to pursue projects that enhance the reliability safety and efficiency of the grid and our service territory; in MISO and neighboring regional transmission organizations including competitive opportunities under FERC order 1000.
In addition we're working to obtain constructive outcomes in the complaint cases pending at the FERC that seek to reduce the base allowed return on equity for transmission owners in the MISO region including Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
On the matter of allowed returns I'm pleased to note that effective January 6 of this year the FERC approved our request for an ROE incentive adder about [ph] 50 basis points for both Ameren Illinois and ATXI to reflect our participation in regional transmission organization.
Moving to Illinois electric and natural gas delivery Ameren Illinois will carry on investing in infrastructure improvements under its Modernization Action Plan which is designed to extend through 2021.
This plan includes the installation of approximately 780 000 advanced electric meters and the upgrading of approximately 470 000 gas meters by the end of 2019 including approximately 140 000 electric and 73 000 gas meters this year.
To support the execution of our modernization plan we're working to ensure that legislation extending electric formula ratemaking through 2019 which I already discussed becomes law.
Regarding Illinois natural gas delivery service last month we filed a request with the Illinois Commerce Commission for an increase in rates to be effective at the beginning of 2016.
In Illinois we were able to use a forward test year to establish rates in our gas business in order to mitigate regulatory line.
Successfully advancing this request through the regulatory process will be a key area focus this year.
In addition we began using the Illinois gas infrastructure rider last month.
This rider facilitation needed projects to upgrade aging infrastructure which will improve the reliability and safety for our customers while providing timely recovery of returns on our investments.
Moving now to our Missouri business we're working diligently to achieve a constructive outcome in our pending electric rate case.
As we reported in our form 8-K file last Friday we learned of an inadvertent disclosure of settlement offer exchanges among Ameren Missouri Missouri Public Service Commission staff and interveners in the pending electric rate case.
The disclosure arouse as a result of the distribution of an incorrect direct email list that included individuals not authorized to receive confidential settlement proposals.
The email list was corrected immediately upon the discovery of the error and appropriate actions were promptly taken under regulation FD.
Further settlement negotiations have been and will continue to be private among the appropriate parties.
As you know the hearings in this case commenced on Monday of this week; Marty will provide you with some more information on this case in a moment.
Modernizing Missouri's regulatory framework also remains a high priority.
We're seeking a framework that we reduces regulatory lag and supports increased investment to upgrade the state's aging electric infrastructure.
Toward that end we continue to educate key Missouri stakeholders including the several freshmen legislators and advocate the legislation that wouldn't prove a regulatory framework to support investment.
Legislation has been filed in the Missouri Senate and House of Representatives that is consistent with legislation powered in 2014.
It is simply premature at this point to speculate whether this legislation will move forward and be enactive.
As we have stated in the past the execution of our plan is not contingent on the passes of legislation of Missouri.
Having said that we strongly believe a modernized framework to support investment to replace aging infrastructure is clearly in the best long-term interest of our customers and the State of Missouri.
Speaking of modern constructive regulatory frameworks we have asked the Missouri Public Service Commission to approve a new energy efficiency plan and a Missouri energy efficiency investment act MEEIA.
This plan will begin in 2016 and continue through 2018 and will follow on the heels of our successful current energy efficiency plan.
We expect to receive a decision on this request later this year.
Earlier I discussed our advocacy for responsible energy policies related to the proposed EPA carbon emission rules.
We do so because we simply believe it is the right thing to do for our customers our country the environment and our shareholders.
And to be clear so the EPA's final regulations withstand legal challenges that we'll certainly face and ultimately require us to reduce our carbon emissions in manner different from our current plan.
We expect that our prudent investments to comply with these regulations will be fairly treated by our regulators as they have been in the past.
Finally we will continue our ongoing efforts to relentlessly improve operating performance including discipline in cost management.
Moving on to page 9; our long-term total return outlook the year ago we laid out of comprehensive plan to grow earnings over the five year period in the end 2018.
Today we're pleased we affirmed that outlook as we continue to expect earnings per share to grow at a 7% to 10% compound annual rate from 2013 to 2018.
Like last year this earnings growth outlook accommodates a range of treasury rates sales growth spending levels and regulatory developments.
With that said our earnings growth outlook is primarily driven by strong rate based growth.
Looking to the five year period 2014 to 2019 we expect rate based grow at a solid 6% compound annual rate.
We have a strong pipeline of investment that will bring superior value to our customers and shareholders over the next five years and beyond.
Those investments include strengthening our electric distribution system and installing electric and gas smart meters consistent with the 10-year Illinois Modernization Action Plan.
In addition we will make meaningful investments in our Illinois gas business upgrading metering equipment's but also replacing and modernizing certain mains lines and controls to ensure safety and reliability.
We will also execute on a extensive list of local transmission liability projects while competing for FERC order 1000 projects.
And in Missouri we will make disciplined investments to replace aging transmission and distribution infrastructure while continuing our transmission to a clearer more diverse generation portfolio in a responsible fashion.
These will include investments necessary to maintain a reliability of and add further environmental controls too our existing coal-fired energy centers.
We'll also include the addition of renewable resources.
Looking ahead we will also remain focused on our dividend as we recognized the importance of our dividend threshold.
The action of our Board of Directors took to increase the dividend last October was indicative of this as well as the confidence we have in our long-term outlook of our regulated utility businesses.
We continue to expect our dividend payout ratio range between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
Of course future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows and economic and other business conditions.
And as I stated a moment ago we are focused on delivering strong earnings growth as we execute our well-defined strategic plan.
In closing we're successfully executing our strategy across the board.
And I'm firmly convinced that continuing to do so will deliver superior value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Again thank you all for joining us on today's call.
And now I'll turn the call to Mary.
Marty? Thanks Warner.
Turning now to Page 11 of our presentation; as Warner noted today we reported earnings of $2.40 per share for 2014compared to $2.10 per share for 2013.
Key drivers of this increase are listed on this page.
Factors favorably affecting the earnings comparison included increased Illinois electric delivery and FERC-regulated transmission earning totaling a $0.11 per share.
And I will note that this amount is net of a reserve for a potential reduction in the allowed return on equity for our FERC-regulated transmission businesses.
The reserves stems from the pending compliant cases at FERC which have the potential to reduce the current 12.38% base allowed ROE for these services.
A reserve calculation assumed the FERC we use the methodology similar to that used in this 2014 order for ISO New England.
Further this reserve reflected an ROE reduction retroactive to November 2013 when the initial compliant case was filed.
Other factors positively affecting the comparison of 2014 earnings to prior year results included increased rates for Illinois natural gas delivery service effective January 2014 as well as decreased interest charges.
A latter reflected the May 2014 maturity of high coupon parent company notes which was funded with lower cost short term debt.
Interest charges also declined as a result of a December 2014 Illinois regulatory decision allowing recovery of the majority of the debt redemption cost initially disallowed in charge to earnings in 2013.
I addition the absence of the 2013 charge related to Missouri FAC treatment of certain prior period wholesale sales had a positive impact on the earnings comparison.
Finally temperatures had a estimated $0.01 per share positive effect on earnings compared to 2013 of a colder winter in early 2014 was largely offset by a milder summer.
Factors having negative effects on the earnings comparison included increased depreciation and amortization expenses and the higher effective income tax rates.
In addition operations and maintenance cost not subject to formulate a great making riders or trackers increased year-over-year.
Well such operations and maintenance expenses increased that are utilities as a result to our efforts to improve service to our customers these increases were partially offset by lower parent company cost reflecting the substantial elimination of business and administrative cost previously incurred to support the domestic merchant generation business.
Before I conclude my discussion of 2014 earnings I'd like to touch on electric sales results for the year.
We estimate the weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers increased nearly 1% in Illinois but they declined by nearly 1% in Missouri.
However we calculate that these sales would have increased about 1.5% in Missouri excluding the effect of our energy efficiency programs.
In Missouri the earning impact reduced electric sales volumes resulting from our energy efficiency programs as mitigated by revenue recovery under the State Energy Efficiency Investment Act.
Kilowatt hour sales to industrial customers in Illinois and Missouri declined combined 1.5%.
However in Missouri such sales would have increased if not for a late year decline in sales to Noranda aluminum Ameren Missouri's largest customer.
Kilowatt hour sales to Noranda declined because of operational issues at their plant which they have characterized as temporary.
Turning to Page 12; I will now briefly update you on select matters pending before our state and federal regulators.
In Missouri the focus is on our pending request for an increase in electric rates to recover higher net energy cost and to recover into a fair return on infrastructure investments made for the benefit of our customers.
The request also reflects increased taxes rebates paid for customer installed solar generation and other costs.
Our rate increase request is now been updated for troupe items agreed to by parties to the case rate base capital structure and certain revenue in expense items have been trued up through year end 2014.
And net energy cost and par roll cost have been trued up through January 1 2015.
In addition we reached a partial settlement with the staff of the Missouri Public Service Commission and center interveners on certain revenue requirement issues and filed it with the commissions on Monday.
Reflecting the true-up and the settlement our updated rate increase request is approximately $190 million annually comprised of approximately $100 million for increased net energy cost and approximately 90 million for other cost including our reflected return on equity.
This updated request incorporates electric service rate base of approximately $7 billion a reduction from the $7.3 billion contemplated in our initial filing primarily due to the extension of bonus depreciation through 2014.
Hearings before the Missouri Public Service Commission began on Monday and are scheduled to continue for a few weeks.
A decision from the Missouri Public Service Commission is expected by May with new rates expected to be effective by early June.
More details on this case are provided in the appendix to today's presentation.
Moving to regulatory matter pending at the Illinois Commerce Commission Warner mentioned that we filed a request for an annual increase in natural gas delivery rates of $53 million last month.
This case is based on a future tax year ending in December 2016 and includes the request for decoupling mechanism that would permit us to collect our authorized revenue requirement from residential small non-residential customers independent of sales volume fluctuations.
We expect the Illinois Commerce Commission to issue a decision in this case by December with new rates effective by January of next year.
A summary of this filing is also included in the appendix to today's presentation.
Finally the previously mentioned compliant cases seeking to reduce the allowed ROE from MISO transmission owners including Ameren Illinois and ATXI are pending at the FERC.
Last month the FERC established a schedule for the initial case.
This schedule calls for hearings to begin august 17 within an initial order from an Administrative Law Judge expected by the end of November of this year and a final order from FERC expected next year.
And please to note that the FERC approved affective January 6 of this year our request for an ROE incentive adder of up to 50 basis points for both Ameren Illinois and ATXI to reflect their participation in a regional transmission organization.
Collection of this adder will be deferred until the ROE complaint cases are resolved.
Moving to page 13 of our presentation next I'd like to discuss our 2015 earnings guidance.
As Warner stated we anticipate that 2015 will be another year of solid earnings growth with per share results anticipated to be in a range $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
This expected growth is largely driven by the increases in FERC-regulated transmission and Illinois electric delivery rate base noted on this page.
Like 2014 results our projected 2015 electric transmission earnings include a reserve for a potential reduction in the current MISO base allowed ROE.
And also incorporate the 50 basis point ROE adder effective January 6.
Further our expected Illinois electric delivery earnings incorporate a formula-based ROE of 8.8% using a forecast of 3.0% for the 2015 average 30 year treasury by yield.
Our 2015 Illinois electric delivery guidance also reflects the absence of a $0.03 per share 2014 benefit from a regulatory decision allowing recovery of the majority of previously disallowed debt redemption costs.
Looking at Ameren Missouri projected 2015 earnings will benefit from the absence this year of a nuclear refueling and maintenance outage at the Callaway Energy Center.
Such outages typically occur every 18 months and the next one is scheduled for the spring of 2016.
In addition new higher Missouri electric delivery rates are expected to become effective in early June.
Until these new rates are effective Missouri earnings will be negatively affected by regulatory lags reflecting the absence of our turn it off and on investments and projects completed since our last rate case including the major projects that entered service late last year.
Before I leave the discussion of 2015 expectations for our Illinois and Missouri utilities I would like to mention our sales outlook and temperature effects.
Up to the right on page 13 you see that a return to normal temperatures in 2015 would reduce Ameren's earnings by an estimated $0.03 per share compared to 2014.
Further we expect weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers to decrease by approximately one half of 1% compared to last year.
The higher sales to commercial customers more than offset by lower sales to residential customers as a result of our energy efficiency programs.
Net of the effects of Missouri's energy efficiency programs we expect Ameren-wide kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers to be roughly flat.
Turning to industrial customers kilowatt hour sale to this group are expected to increase approximately 2.5% compared to last year with a larger part of that growth expected to come in Illinois.
As I previously mentioned the earnings effect have reduced Missouri electric sales volumes due to our energy efficiency programs is mitigated under our MEEIA plan.
Further the earnings impacted kilowatt hour sales fluctuations in Illinois is limited by the 50 basis point color around the allowed ROE for our delivery service business.
Before moving to Page 14 I do want to highlight that we recognized that investors are interested in understanding the sensitivity of our earnings outlook to changes in our allowed ROEs given our formulae at rake making and pending rake cases.
Therefore on this page we have provided estimates of 2015 earnings per share sensitivities associated with hypothetical changes in allowed ROEs.
Moving into Page 14; parent and other costs are expected to decline as a result of a full year of interest cost savings related to the previously mentioned May 2014 maturity of high cost parent company debt.
We also forecast our 2015 effective income tax rates will be about 38% a decrease of approximately one percentage point from the 2014 effective rate.
Finally this earnings guidance incorporates average basic common shares outstanding of 242.6 million unchanged from the prior year level.
Continued on Page 15 for 2015 we anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $500 million.
On the right side of this page we provide a breakdown of our $1.96 billion of planned 2015 capital expenditures.
We plan to fund this year's negative free cash flow and debt maturities with a mix of long and short term borrowings including expected long-term debt issuances of $500 million.
Turning to Page 16 of this presentation here we provide an overview of our $8.9 billion of planned regulated capital expenditures for the 2015 through 2019 period.
The expected funding sources for these infrastructure investments are listed on this page.
In particular we expect to benefit from approximately $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion of income tax deferrals and tax assets over this period.
The expected changes in deferred taxes are driven primarily by our planned capital expenditures.
The tax assets include approximately $715 million of Federal and State net operating loss carry forwards Federal and State income tax credit carry forwards and expected income tax refunds and tax over payments at year end 2014.
Approximately $440 million of these tax assets are at the parent company and are not currently earning a return.
These tax assets are expected to be realized into 2017.
As I previously mentioned we do not expect to issue any additional common shares in 2015.
Further we do not plan to issue additional common shares via public offering through 2019.
Should we decide to issue additional equity at some point over this five-year period we would expect to do so by issuing new shares through our dividend reinvestment in 401K plans.
We remain committed to funding our capital expenditures in a manner that maintains solid credit metrics and this is reflected in our capitalization target of around 50% equity.
Moving to Page 17; we plan to invest a substantial $2.3 billion in FERC-regulated projects over the five years ending in 2019 with $1.3 billion of this at ATXI and the remaining $1 billion at Ameren Illinois.
Here we provide an updated cost estimate for the Illinois Rivers project incorporating the final route approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission.
The updated cost estimate for ATXIs investment in the project is $1.3 billion compared to our prior estimate of $1.1 billion.
In addition Ameren Illinois is building parts of the project that connects its transmission system to ATXIs portion of Illinois Rivers at multiple points.
These expenditures as well as local reliability and expansion investments for which there continues to be in need are included in Ameren Illinois five-year spending plan.
The entire Illinois Rivers project represents an estimated investment of $1.4 billion.
I'm pleased to report that the project is progressing as planned and we continue to expect the first section to be completed 2016 with the last section slated for completion in 2019.
Now turning to Page 18; I will summarize.
We delivered strong 14% earnings per share growth in 2014 and are successfully executing our strategy.
As a result we expect to again deliver solid earnings growth in 2015 compared to 2014.
We also reaffirm that earnings per share are expected to grow at a strong 7% to 10% compound annual rate from 2013 through 2018.
Of course long-term earnings growth is driven by investment utility infrastructure for the benefit of our customers.
We expect 6% compound annual rate based growth over the five-year period of 2014 through 2019 based on a transparent mix of needed transmission distribution and generation investments across multiple regulatory jurisdictions.
We believe that highly visible growth is outstanding as compared to what appears finally Ameren $1.64 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with a current yield of approximately 3.8%.
In our view this expected earnings and rate based growth coupled with our dividend yield add up to a very attractive total return on proposition for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith with UBS.
Go ahead with your question please.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes Julien this is Marty.
You're a bit weak please do speak up.
All right indeed; excellent.
So perhaps the first quick question on the CAGR if you will just why not roll forward and have a consistent rate-based EPS CAGR; anything in particular as you think about earnings in '19 or was this just kind of a fluke? Well I would not call that a fluke.
Now look we felt it would be good to continue to provide updates to the guidance that we provided last year.
We put a stake in the ground that we expected to grow earnings in 7% to 10% from '13 to '18.
And I think it's certainly important that we continue to let you know where we track against that.
So as I said on the call longer term we really believe that growth in this business is driven by a rate-based growth and longer term certainly plan to provide in the rate-based growth outlook that we've provided.
So we think that's a good basis going forward to continue to provide longer term outlook.
Okay fair enough.
Moving on to some of the details here as you think about gas and specifically the new rider is there a kind of a full year contribution here in '15 or should we think about this somewhat lagged in the '16 as kind of the benefits fully accrue? Again you're talking about the gas business in Illinois the rider we're using there? Yes.
Really the benefit should be primarily realized this year as we utilize that rider.
There is a very small lag associated with that rider.
It's only a couple of months.
So the benefits really realized beginning in 2015 and using that rider.
Great and then a little nitpicky here; but why the reserve now on the ROE for the transmission side what triggered that I suppose if I can ask? Yes what really triggered that is as we looked at we certainly study the orders that FERC has given not only in ISO New England but with other companies that come before them.
There was a December order that FERC issued relative to another company which we believe gave better clarification as to how the FERC is going to think about computing the ROEs for the various refund periods that exist with respect to these complaint filings.
So using the ISO New England as well as the guidance provided at the FERC order we felt that we could reasonably estimate a reserve to book thought it was prudent to do so prudent to get that reserve booked and behind us and so therefore we've done that.
You didn't ask specifically about the amount but I can tell you that the reserve that we recorded get you to an ROE about at the same place that the FERC landed in the ISO New England order.
Got you excellent.
Well I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd with Morgan Stanley.
Go head with your question please.
Good morning.
Good morning Stephen.
I wanted to just talk about the resource plan and EPA regulation [ph].
Assuming that later this year we do receive a plan that looks a lot like the draft plan that we received could you talk a little bit about how you think and your constituents think about the timing for actually executing the plan? There's always litigation around big plans such as this from the EPA but curious in the face of that do you see a need and a desire to try to at least start to move forward with your plan to move towards compliance? Or would there be a delay before moving forward given the litigation? How do you think about that? Stephen this is Warner.
Of course if the EPA issues a Clean Power Plan which is identical to what the rules are as they've even proposed today of course we will move forward to be in compliance with that plan recognizing as you rightly pointed out there will be litigation we believe surrounding this plan for several years which is as you probably know one of the issues that not just we but many in the industry have raised.
But we will do our best to drop rate under that but as we've raised that to others we have concerns with not just the economic impacts but I think what you're starting to see in these hearings at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission are conducting there are real concerns about reliability risks significant concerns.
So we're hopeful that the EPA is listening very carefully to the concerns that we're raising those concerns that are being raised in the industry but also by those that are experts in the industry to ensure the reliability and frankly those outside of the industry.
So we're hopeful that the EPA and listening to that will make modifications that will make it acceptable if that will ultimately withstand the legal challenges.
Great that's helpful; and just switching over to transmission just curious as you think about integrating other utilities in.
I'm thinking about Entergy but more broadly additional transmission planning.
It looks like you're prosecuting well on existing projects but maybe just at a high level if you could speak to potential for additional transmission spend? As we planned out during the call this is Warner again; no we think that the opportunities are really twofold.
Number one well we've talked a lot about the FERC 1000 projects we sit there sit among the seams [ph] of SPP we have opportunities within MISO especially with the addition of Entergy and of course within the seams of PJM.
And because of all of those we believe that there continue to be robust opportunities for us to make proposals and combine that with our operating experience and our knowledge of the system we believe we have a very good opportunity to enhance our transmission spend and investment because of those.
I wouldn't stop there.
We've taken a hard look [technical difficulty] and we continue to do so in terms of just local reliability projects to continue to improve the system for our customers here within both Missouri and Illinois as well as in opportunities that would enhance just within MISO.
So Stephen I see that with -- putting those things combined we see meaningful investment opportunities in the transmission business and especially that's fruitful when you have a framework which is supportive of investment in transmission.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
Go ahead with your question please.
Yes.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Steve.
I had a couple specific questions related to your ROE and interest rate assumptions.
So first on the Illinois business it looks like in '15 you're using a 3% 30-year.
So if you assumed it stayed flat through 2018 I assume your core base is off like the four curves for the 30-year or something? Is that how you… Yes.
When we do our planning certainly we look to blue chip estimates of economists that are out there in terms of where they see the interest rates going which is where we get the 3% honestly is looking at consensus forecast for interest rates for 2015 and then they obviously project out beyond them.
But if you stayed at 3% over your five-year growth period you'd still be within your range but at the lower end maybe or lower half? Is that what you're saying? Yes.
Fair question Steve.
The answer to that is yes.
I mean if you took the ROEs that are embedded in our guidance this year for 2015 and you held those constant out through 2018 we project that we would be within that 7% to 10% range as you mentioned albeit at the lower end of the range perhaps but clearly within the range.
Okay.
And then a little more explicitly on the FERC transmission ROE aspect and the reserve you're taking and assumption.
So you mentioned you're using the FERC New England methodology and it happens to come up with roughly a similar actual number range.
Is that what clarifies -- is that what you said? Yes Steve that's right.
I think that obviously we've got an ongoing case.
We don't think that we want to get into the details of the computation and we will let our testimony in that case speak for itself over time but I didn't want to give some sense for the accounting reserve that we booked and I would tell you that the reserve we booked reflects in ROE similar to the outcome of that ISO New England case.
Okay and then how about in terms of the incentive aspects? So you're adding the 50 BPs adder but you're also including the similar incentive cap that was in that case? I would say that Steve so for the historical [technical difficulty] 2014 back to late 2013 we didn't reflect any kind of an adder any kind of 50 basis point adder.
Going forward however in '15 what has been embedded in our guidance is I would say take that -- approximately take that ISO New England outcome add 50 basis point adder and that's about what we get reflected in our guidance for 2015.
Okay and just to sum up on all of this if you on the FERC transmission business and ROEs as you go through the period if you're assuming higher interest rates as you are in Illinois do you assume you go back into FERC and seek higher ROEs? Or do you assume it stays at this reduced level that you're reserving at? Steve over time we will have to assess that.
We will have to see how these cases come out and then assess through time how we will go about updating FERC ROEs [technical difficulty].
So I don't want to get into exactly what we got embedded in our 7% to 10% growth in our own plan going forward for FERC.
As I mentioned if you took the current ROEs embed in our 2015 guidance and held them constant through 2018 without any change you would stay within that 7% to 10%.
You would have to believe I guess what I would agree with you on is that over time if we see cost of capital rising if we believe it's prudent to adjust the ROEs upward we certainly take action and pursue that with the FERC.
Okay great.
Thank you I appreciate I just want to make sure I understood those aspects.
So I appreciate going through all of it.
Yes absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Go ahead with your question please.
Hi.
I just want to touch basically on just to clarify exactly what was sort of settled on Monday in Missouri and what was left out; you guys are asking for 180 million you broke out the components of that pretty well.
I'm just trying to get senses to what was settled and what wasn't settled in the case if you could just elaborate a little further on that on Monday the non-unanimous settlement that you guys filed? Sure.
Paul this is Michael Moehn.
In terms of what was settled and it is public and so you can get the stipulation agreement.
There were a lot of issues of payroll and incentive compensation advertising board fees and… I guess what I was wondering is what's not settled I guess or what's -- if you followed what I'm saying what's still contested that you guys has left open? Do you follow me? Yes.
So the large issues that are obviously return on equity we have some tax issue that are open today obviously the trackers the FAC the office of public counsels proposing to renew that track or change the sharing percentage.
Staff is proposing to remove the storm tracker.
There are some meaningful depreciation issues that are still open today and there are few amortization issues that are at risk as well.
So the bid on the ask between staff and you do we have an updated number on that? No Paul we don't have really I can't say a good point estimate for where the staff is today.
We did put sort of baking the ground in terms of our own [technical difficulty] which is obviously we know our own position which is in the back you will see $190 million $100 million of that's net energy costs about $90 of its other costs.
I can tell you that [technical difficulty] the original case that we filed to the case that we have today our non-fuel ask is down about 45 million.
That's probably 25 million to 30 million due to lower rate base primarily bonus depreciation.
The other 15 million to 20 million due to updates of pension post-retirement medical and active medical so lot of those costs will actually go through rider and trackers but it gives you a little bit of a sense for how our position move from the original position to where we are today.
Michael provided you some of the color on some of positions that the other parties have taken.
We've provided an overview or summary of that in our materials as well in the appendix.
[Technical difficulty] as I sit here today an exact bid ask spread.
Okay and then you mentioned the seams opportunity that you guys have which makes a lot of sense.
But as you know there's also a proceeding or a couple -- well I guess a generalized generic proceeding with respect to MISO PJM on capacity transfer and day ahead and a whole variety of other things.
And although it's been moving slowly in some respects it's moving.
It appears to be at least.
And FERC has recently put out an order and stuff on it and I'm just wondering do you think -- do you have any perspective on that? And could that impact your transmission opportunities depending on how that unfolds? Or are those transmission opportunities there pretty much regardless of what happens with this generic PJM MISO seams proceeding… Yes Paul.
I'm sorry I didn't mean to interrupt you Paul anything else? No no.
That's what I want to talk.
I appreciate that.
Maureen Borkowski who is the President of our Transmission Organization [ph] she will probably touch on some more of the details around those current proceedings so Maureen? Yes this is Maureen.
Hi Paul.
I think you are correct that certainly the thing that go on in that capacity and the resource adequacy marketplace do affect the opportunities and the transmission business.
Obviously we've been continuing to be active participants in PJM solicitations for internal projects but also if you continue to look at any kinds of cross-border transmissions projects between MISO and PJM that would improve power transfers both energy and capacity.
So I think you are right on that there are definitely opportunities there.
Okay and then just on the Missouri legislation where do we stand on that and how does it look vis-a-vis last year's efforts? Yes.
Again Paul this is Michael Moehn.
As Warner said I mean it is similar legislation.
The Senate Bill 310 and House Bill 925 are very similar to last year.
I think we are early in the session so it's difficult to speculate sort of the outcome.
We are spending a lot of time with various stakeholders again explaining there are lot of freshmen legislators there explaining the importance of this legislation the need to modernize the regulatory framework to get working on the aging infrastructure issue.
And we are certainly mindful that all of the utilities in Missouri are in for rate cases and so this is a factor that we have to be aware of but as we said in the past we're going to continue to pursue this and be relentless about trying to get it across the finish line but I think it's probably a bit premature to speculate the outcome.
Okay anything specifically different than last couple of years basically that we should be thinking about? I'm sorry.
Anything specifically different than couple of years I mean you guys made these efforts before; is there anything in the environment that you might want to point to as being perhaps more constructive for you to get this? I think the environment is really about the same at this point.
I think there is probably better understanding of the issue today as we continue to spend more and more with folks about how seriously the structure issue is and trying to address it.
But beyond that the environment is very similar.
Okay.
I'll add one other thing Paul which I think is helpful is we are certainly in the conversations that we had in Missouri.
We point to the success that we continue to have with constructive legislation in Illinois not how it's only improving the liability not only how Richard and the Illinois team continue to hit their metrics but also how they are creating jobs.
So all of things are right across the river and those are important conversations that we continue to point out because we see that as really the opportunity [technical difficulty] to do something in the future.
So we got a [technical difficulty] we think that is another important aspect of our conversation today.
Excellent.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Go ahead with your question please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
You mentioned the 3% 30-year Treasury rate assumption in the 2015 guidance.
Could you just remind us I assume that's at the midpoint of your guidance but if interest rates were to change say 25 basis points relative to that 3% assumption what's the EPS impact? Fair again 25 basis points probably a penny and penny and half.
We actually did provide a sensitivity when you take a look at Slide 13 some kind of small print I recognize but in the Illinois -- Ameren Illinois electric delivery section we note that a 50 basis point move in EPS [technical difficulty] about 2.5 cents so obviously 25 [technical difficulty] half of that.
Okay got it.
Pretty small in the grand scheme of the earnings guidance for this year.
Right and if we were to use 2014 actual EPS or weather-normalized EPS as a base would your EPS CAGR be more of like 6% to 9.5% versus 7% to 10% off the 2013 base? Oh you are talking about -- what year do you want to measure for '14 looking out to '18.
Correct.
Yes.
So last year somebody had asked "Hey what's the growth rate off of '14?" And we replied 6 to 9.50.
At that time when you look at our '14 guidance with midpoint was 235.
The weather normalized results for 2014 they're $2.37.
So that's 69.5 numbers and it still holds.
Basically 69.5 of a '14 out through '18 is a CAGR is equivalent to the 7 to 10 off of '13.
Okay great and it seems like you mentioned the $300 million less rate base in the Missouri operations.
But it looks like your CapEx in 2015 is higher is like -- and you reiterated the 6% rate-base CAGRs.
When we look to 2018 and 2019 do you still fall in the same spot you previously were? You raised a good point.
When you look at CapEx for this past year we really came in right where [technical difficulty] at we would.
We forecasted to be it about 1.850 billion finish the year nearly 1.8 billion.
So it's pretty much on top of where we'd expect it.
We're expecting a little bit of an uptick in 2015 in terms of capital expenditure up about another 175 million as we reported on the call to about 1.960 billion.
And that level is little bit of an uptick mainly due to [technical difficulty] timing of our projects.
But if also you take a look at the slide 16 that we provided where we lay out our expected capital expenditure over the five year period we're projecting $8.9 billion of regulated infrastructure investment over this period and that's actually up over the prior year five-year period.
So we back in last year we'd said '14 through '18 was going to be about 8.3 billion.
Now we've moved up to 8.9.
We have added about $600 million of the overall capital expenditure the five-year to this five-year plan as compared to the old one.
So we have added expenditures we've added expenditures that we translated to rate based growth in amount of is roughly doubled what we see as the negative impact of bonus depreciations.
We're more than [technical difficulty] with identified additional projects to invest in for the benefit of our customers.
On Slide 9 that's where we actually show then our expected rate base growth and basically [Technical difficulty] rate base 6% from '14 to '19.
That's a very similar rate to what we had before for 2013 to 2018.
But you can see because of that added capital expenditures over the five-year period that the ending rate base of projected rate base 15.5 [technical difficulty] about 9% more than what we had last year [technical difficulty] at the end of '18.
And one should not assume either that the CapEx that we added has backend loaded.
It's really been added throughout the period of an ultimately [technical difficulty]rate base number at the end of '19 was just about 9% higher than what we had then projecting for '18.
Okay great that's very helpful.
And then just lastly you mentioned reg lag in Missouri impacted 2014 results in that jurisdiction.
Is it possible to quantify what your earned ROE was in Missouri in '14? When you get the 10K I think you can calculate it may be able to calculate of stats page.
We earned pretty close of slightly below the allowed ROE in Missouri.
What we're really talking about lag and the call though was more about '15.
We put a number of projects and service at the end of 2014 those begin to be depreciated and we no longer capitalize in return on those.
So [technical difficulty] early '15 we do experience a lag until we can get the rates reset to our reflect recovery of those costs and rates that reflects an appropriate return on those investments.
That's the lag I think we're really [technical difficulty].
Is it possible to quantify that lag in terms of basis points of the allowed? No I don't have that foray.
It's basically we will have that lag for the first five or so months of the year but don't have an exact quantification of that.
Okay thank you very much.
For 2014 we do file these surveillance reports with the Missouri Public Service Commission and we earned 9.71 in 2014 in Missouri.
Good thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead with your question please.
Hey guys congrats on a good 2014 and thank you for taking my questions.
One small one; what do you assume in guidance for costs at the holding Company or parent level? Yes sure.
Good.
Michael good morning by the way; this is Marty.
Good question.
So last year we had guided that I guess in 2013 we'd had about $0.18 or so of parent other cost.
We had projected to drive those down in '14 which we were successful of doing.
We said to $0.10 below which is where we ended up including I'd say the effects of dilution.
We probably had about $0.09 of drag and we expect that we will be able to reduce that further in 2015.
Of course you know that we get the full year benefit of that maturity at their parent company where we had the high cost stat.
so we do expect another $0.04 or so of interest savings.
So expect to drive that number down to maybe about $0.05 depending upon taxes and things like that maybe even a hair lower.
But we're expecting $0.05 or little bit under in terms of parent company drag in 2015.
Got it and when thinking longer term in Illinois do you think there is a -- whether it's legislative or whether it's done via the regulatory process there is a transformative-like investment opportunity on the gas delivery side like what's happened on the electric delivery side for both you and Commonwealth Edison in Illinois in terms of the legislation that was passed a few years ago and what it did to both capital spending rate-based growth investment in the system employment et cetera.
I don't know Michael whether there's anything more transformative.
I think when you look at the gas business in Illinois we've already ramped up some investment there because we do see that as constructive environment as it exist today.
As you know we have the ability to use forward looking tax years for our gas rates and the rate case that we have pending today as we mentioned on the call looks out to 2016 uses 2016 projects cost and rate base we think that's constructive.
And then we began to be able to use basically a rider for qualifying infrastructure projects so that we can actually adjust rates monthly between rate cases to reflect the return of and return on those qualifying projects.
We believe there's been enhancement made to the framework which is actually allowing us to step up investments and we're replacing meter modules and gas business alongside the meter replacement program that we've got going on the electric portion of the business and it's allowing us also to make some necessary investments in that business to ensure safety as well as reliability of the gas business.
I think more of [technical difficulty] that may reflect or spare investment over time we think the infrastructure --we think again that framework is good but it will be whether we see some additional safety rules that come out at the national level or apply at may drive actually investments spending.
And but we do believe that we have the framework in place that if we're required to make those investments that will be treated absolutely fairly in terms of the regulatory process.
Got it.
Thank you Marty.
One last one and little bit of a housekeeping item here; can you break up -- the slide's confusing a little bit what the ATXI transmission rate base is at the end of 2014 or the average rate base versus the Ameren Illinois transmission rate base? And then that same question but on the CapEx side for 2015.
Yes Doug is going to see if he can pull that out.
If he can pull that out -- I don't have that in front of me.
If he can pull it out readily Michael that's certainly something that we can follow up and provide to you.
I will tell you that just in terms of the earnings for 2015 I think we're looking at may be about $0.05 or so earnings [technical difficulty] from ATXI in 2015.
That sort of embedded in our guidance and that… Michael I don't have it at my fingertips but we did give you some websites at the back of the presentation that show our attachment old filings for the total is about 1.4 billion average rate base for '15 but the breakout; it is public in there [technical difficulty] don't have that rate in front of me.
No problem I'm getting a little granular and sorry to be a pain.
I'll follow up I'll take this one offline guys.
Thank you Michael.
Thanks for your questions.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Levi with Avon Capital Advisors.
Go ahead with your question please.
Hi how you doing? Actually I think I'm all set but thank you.
Everything looks good.
Thanks Andy.
If you give me -- this is Doug if you give me just a second here; I think I may have found that information here Andrew is going to help me here for a second.
Yes thanks.
It's about half a billion for ATXI and about 900 million for Ameren Illinois is the number here I'm getting.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
I would like to turn the call back over to you for closing comments.
Doug closing comments please.
Yes.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for one year on our Web site.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today's news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
This will conclude our teleconference for today.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Fischer you may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today's live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers who will -- who may use terms or acronyms which are defined in the presentation.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts &amp; Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation.
I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are not commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the Forward-Looking Statements section in the news release we issued today and the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with comments on first quarter financial results full year 2015 earnings guidance and a business update.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of first quarter results and an update on financial and regulatory matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a continuing operations and diluted share basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here's Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced first quarter 2015 earnings of $0.45 per share compared with $0.40 per share in last year's first quarter.
This earnings advance reflected increased electric transmission and delivery infrastructure investments made by ATXI and Ameren Illinois and the formula ratemaking for the benefit of customers.
Our first quarter results also benefited from reduced parent company interest charges.
However the earnings contributions from these factors were somewhat reduced by lower recognized allowed ROEs for the FERC-regulated transmission and Illinois electric delivery areas of our business.
Earnings were also reduced by lower electric and natural gas sales volumes due primarily to milder winter temperatures and energy efficiency.
Our solid first quarter results clearly reflect the benefits of strategically allocating capital to jurisdictions with modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
These solid first quarter results also provide a good foundation for achieving our full year earnings expectations.
Therefore today we affirmed our 2015 earnings guidance which is expected to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
Marty will discuss first quarter earnings in more detail in a few minutes including comments on additional factors contributing to the higher results.
Turning to Page 5.
Here we reiterate our strategic plan.
We remain focused on executing this strategy which we strongly believe will deliver superior value to both our customers and our shareholders.
I'd like to highlight some of our year-to-date efforts and accomplishments towards this end.
As I mentioned a moment ago we continue to strategically allocate significant amounts of capital to those businesses where investment is supported by modern constructive regulatory frameworks that provide fair predictable and timely cost recovery as well as long-term benefits to our customers.
In particular we invested approximately $270 million during the first quarter on FERC-regulated electric transmission projects and Ameren Illinois electric and natural gas delivery infrastructure.
Work on the $1.4 billion Illinois Rivers transmission project is advancing as planned.
Line construction is expected to begin on the first line segment this month with completion planned for next year.
And we have begun foundation construction on the second line segment.
Further Ameren Illinois' modernization action plan is on track to meet its reliability advanced metering and job creation goals for this year related to the Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act.
Also Ameren remains actively engaged in advocating for responsible energy policies.
In Illinois policymakers continue to be forward-thinking in implementing constructive frameworks to support modernization of the state's aging energy infrastructure.
In particular I am very pleased to know that legislation extending constructive electric formula ratemaking through 2019 was passed by a wide margin in the General Assembly is now law.
This enables Ameren Illinois' modernization of the electric grid to continue with the regulatory and financial certainty needed to replace aging infrastructure make investments in new technology upgrade equipment hire and train new Illinois coworkers all in an effort to deliver higher-quality service to our customers.
Further the extension of constructive formula ratemaking was cited by Moody's and Fitch in their recent reports upgrading certain of Ameren Illinois' credit ratings.
I believe these actions reinforce that good energy policy leads to benefits for customers and investors.
On the federal level we continue to collaborate with industry leaders stakeholders and policymakers across the country to aggressively advocate for constructive and responsible improvements to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency's proposed Clean Power Plan.
Simply put we have serious concerns with the EPA's current proposed rules.
Aside from the legal challenges that the Clean Power Plan will face in the future we believe that many of the underlying assumptions that are the foundation of these proposed rules were unreasonable.
Most important we along with experts across the country have stated that implementation of these rules in their current form will meaningfully raise reliability risks for the grid and electricity costs for our customers are projected to rise significantly under the current proposed rules.
While we have serious concerns with these rules we are not just saying no.
Instead we have proposed several commonsense solutions including eliminating unrealistic interim targets and allowing the states to determine the best path to address the EPA's final targets.
Also we are strongly advocating that the rules include protections to ensure that our nation's grid is able to operate in a reliable fashion.
Our plan will materially reduce greenhouse gas emissions while saving customers billions of dollars and preserving the reliable service U.S.
citizens have enjoyed for decades.
In summary we believe our constructive alternative is the right thing for our customers our country and the environment.
Our clean energy plan also includes continued reliance on dependable and carbon-free nuclear generation from the Callaway Energy Center.
Recently we achieved a major milestone in this regard.
In March we obtained Nuclear Regulatory Commission approval for extending the operating license for Callaway by 20 years to 2044.
In addition to prudently investing in our utilities and advocating for responsible energy policies we remain relentlessly focused on achieving operational improvements and efficiencies across all of our businesses including the continuation of our lean management efforts throughout our organization.
We have a solid track record of disciplined cost management and aligning our overall spending with regulatory frameworks and outcome as well as economic conditions.
And we remain committed to our goal of closing gaps between earned and allowed returns on equity.
Turning now to Page 6 of our presentation.
Let me update you on some other legislative and regulatory matters related to our businesses.
Beginning with Missouri that state's Public Service Commission approved a $122 million increase in Ameren Missouri's electric service rates in a decision issued last week.
As you know the primary drivers of this rate case were significant investments made over the past couple of years to improve the quality of service we provide to our customers in terms of safety reliability and environmental stewardship as well as accelerated recovery of our aging Meramec Energy Center investment and rising net energy costs for our energy centers.
While we are pleased that the Public Service Commission's order allows for the recovery of these important infrastructure investments and increased net energy costs other aspects of the decision are disappointing.
This includes the 9.53% allowed ROE which is a decrease from the current allowed ROE of 9.8% authorized back in December 2012.
In addition the Public Service Commission eliminated our ability to recover changes in transmission revenues and expenses with a fuel adjustment clause and discontinued tracking mechanisms for vegetation management and storm cost recovery.
Lastly the commission is revenue neutral to Ameren Missouri and will be subsidized by our other customers.
We have consistently stated that this is an economic development matter which should have been addressed by the Missouri legislature.
Marty will provide further details on this rate order in a few minutes.
While we are disappointed with the commission's decision we are already moving forward with action plans to address the outcome of this rate case.
We will request a rehearing on several aspects of this order including the allowed ROE and the elimination of recovery of changes in transmission revenues and expenses through the fuel adjustment clause.
As we have done in the past we will seek to align our overall operating and capital spending with this regulatory outcome while maintaining our goal of earning at or very close to our new allowed ROE.
And finally we will continue to be relentless in our pursuit of modernizing the regulatory framework in Missouri in order to support investment to upgrade the state's aging electric utility infrastructure and to reduce regulatory lag.
The Missouri General Assembly is not expected to advance legislation to modernize the state's regulatory framework this year.
As we have stated in the past the execution of our near-term rate base and earnings growth plans are not contingent on enhancement of the Missouri framework.
As the energy industry continues to change and advance we remain committed to educating stakeholders in our effort to help Missouri remain competitive and build the grid of the future.
We are convinced such an enhancement is in the best long-term interest of our customers and the state.
As a result we will continue to work with the commission legislators and others and aggressively advocate for improvement of the Missouri regulatory framework.
Last with regard to the complaint cases pending at the FERC challenging MISO's base allowed ROE of 12.38% for transmission services we and other MISO transmission owners are strongly advocating for an ROE level that is fair and that will continue to incentivize the transmission investment needed to ensure a robust grid for our nation.
To that end we and others filed testimony in April.
I strongly believe that the FERC supports additional investment in our nation's transmission infrastructure and will continue to provide a regulatory framework including an ROE that will incentivize that investment.
FERC's review of this matter is expected to continue over the next year.
Turning now to Page 7 and our long-term growth outlook.
In February of this year we outlined our plan to grow rate base at a solid 6% compound annual rate over the 2014 to 2019 period.
We have a strong pipeline of investments that we expect to bring superior value to our customers and shareholders over the next 5 years and beyond.
As shown on this page the growth rates of our jurisdictional investments are aligned with the perspectives I just shared on our regulatory frameworks.
We are executing on numerous FERC-regulated electric transmission projects including multi-value projects such as Illinois Rivers as well as an extensive list of local reliability projects.
Further we are making investments to strengthen our electric delivery system and install electric smart meters consistent with the Ameren Illinois' 10-year Modernization Action Plan.
And we are making meaningful investments in our Illinois gas delivery system to upgrade metering equipment while also replacing and modernizing certain mains lines and controls to ensure safety and reliability.
To earn a timely return on incremental Illinois gas delivery investments we began using the state's gas infrastructure rider in the first quarter of this year.
Last in Missouri we are focused on providing safe and reliable energy to our customers as we seek to align our overall spending with the recent rate case outcome.
We expect our solid base growth to be the primary driver of superior earnings growth for our shareholders.
Further looking ahead we remain focused on delivering a solid dividend because we recognize the importance of dividends to our shareholders.
Of course future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows and economic and other business conditions.
In closing we are committed to executing our strategy and we expect this focus to deliver superior value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Again thank you all for joining us on today's call.
And I'll now turn the call over to Marty.
Thanks Warner.
Good morning everyone.
Turning now to Page 9 of our presentation.
As Warner already noted today we reported earnings of $0.45 per share for the first quarter of 2015 compared with $0.40 per share for the year-ago period Key drivers of this earnings increase are listed on this page.
Higher electric transmission and delivery infrastructure investments made by ATXI and Ameren Illinois under formula ratemaking increased earnings by $0.05 per share compared with the year-ago quarter.
The earnings comparison also benefited by $0.05 per share from reduced operations and maintenance expenses for those businesses not operating under formula rates.
In addition the January 2015 Illinois Commerce Commission order approving recovery of Ameren Illinois cumulative power usage costs increased earnings by $0.04 per share compared with the first quarter of last year.
Earnings also benefited by $0.03 per share from a reduction in parent company interest charges reflecting the May 2014 maturity of $425 million of 8.875% senior notes that were replaced with lower cost short-term debt.
Moving now to factors that had an unfavorable effect on the first quarter earnings comparison.
Lower electric and natural gas volumes reduced earnings by $0.05 per share with milder winter temperatures accounting for an estimated $0.03 per share of this decline and the balance due to energy efficiency and other drivers.
First quarter 2015 temperatures were milder than those experienced during the polar vortex in the year-ago quarter but were still colder than normal.
We estimate that weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers across our systems decreased by approximately 1% with about 1/2 of this decrease due to energy efficiency programs.
In Missouri the effect of declines in electric sales volumes due to our energy efficiency programs is offset by revenue recovery authorized under the state's Energy Efficiency Investment Act.
Kilowatt hour sales to industrial customers in Illinois increased 2%.
However sales to industrial customers in Missouri declined 4% primarily due to lower sales to Noranda Aluminum Ameren Missouri's largest customer.
Sales to Noranda declined because of sustained operational issues at their plant.
Next the earnings contribution from electric transmission and delivery investments at ATXI and Ameren Illinois which I noted a moment ago was reduced by lower recognized allowed ROEs.
Transmission earnings for the year-ago quarter incorporated the current MISO base allowed ROE of 12.38%.
However this year's first quarter results were reduced by a reserve to reflect the potential for a lower ROE from the pending complaint cases at the FERC.
The net ROE recognized in our transmission earnings is consistent with the level incorporated into our 2015 earnings guidance as discussed on our February 25 call.
Regarding first quarter 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings these incorporated an 8.6% allowed ROE compared with 9.7% in the year-ago period.
This decline was due to a decrease in the assumed annual average 30-year Treasury rate from 3.9% to 2.8%.
Of course this year's Illinois electric delivery earnings will incorporate the actual 2015 average 30-year treasury rate which I would note that interest rates have recently been rising.
Other factors weighing on the earnings comparison included increased depreciation and amortization expenses and increased Ameren Missouri financing cost as noted on this page.
These reflected in part the impact of capital projects placed in service by Ameren Missouri over the last 12 months.
Turning now to Page 10.
First I would like to remind you that today we have affirmed our 2015 earnings guidance range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
Moving to the details on this page.
Here we list select items for you to consider as you update your 2015 earnings models.
These include the effect on earnings that a return to normal temperatures would have on this year's remaining quarters compared with those of last year.
Over the balance of this year we expect increased earnings from our FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois electric delivery services as we continue to make significant infrastructure investments under formula ratemaking.
In addition capitalized financing costs are expected to decline this year reflecting the significant Ameren Missouri capital projects that were in process and ultimately placed into service late last year.
Earnings for the balance of the year are expected to benefit from a lower effective income tax rate.
Our forecasted 2015 effective income tax rate is approximately 38% a decrease from the 2014 effective rate which was approximately 39%.
In addition I want to remind you of factors that will affect the fourth quarter comparison.
The absence of a Callaway Energy Center nuclear refueling and maintenance outage this year is expected to boost fourth quarter 2015 earnings by approximately $0.08 per share compared with the year-ago quarter.
The next Callaway refueling is scheduled for the spring of 2016.
Finally this year's fourth quarter will reflect the absence of a 2014 benefit resulting from a regulatory decision authorizing Ameren Illinois to recover previously disallowed debt redemption costs of $0.03 per share.
Of course these are only some of the factors that will have an effect on balance of the year 2015 earnings as compared with 2014.
Turning now to Page 11 and regulatory matters.
Here we provide details on the recent Missouri rate order.
As Warner already mentioned last week the Missouri Public Service Commission approved a $122 million annual increase in Ameren Missouri's retail electric rates.
This amount was comprised of $109 million for increased net energy costs and $13 million for other non-energy costs.
The Missouri commission authorized continuation of 2 very important and constructive cost recovery mechanisms the fuel adjustment clause and the pension and other postretirement benefit cost tracking mechanism.
However as Warner mentioned the commission eliminated our ability to recover changes in transmission revenues and expenses through the fuel adjustment clause.
The commission also discontinued 2 other cost trackers one for vegetation management and infrastructure inspection cost and another for storm costs.
The commission did state in its order that Ameren Missouri can request an accounting authority order to defer extraordinary storm costs incurred between rate cases for possible inclusion in rates in a future rate case.
In years past Ameren Missouri has been granted such storm cost accounting orders and later authorized to recover these costs in future rate cases.
Moving to Page 12 and further details of the Missouri electric rate decision.
Here we provide a breakdown of the key drivers of the $13 million authorized annual increase in other nonenergy revenue.
As Warner noted we're disappointed with this rate decision and will seek to align our overall operating and capital spending with this outcome.
And as we have stated repeatedly our objective is to earn a return on equity at or close to our allowed level.
Given Missouri's use of historical test years and now more limited riders and trackers this objective will be more challenging.
However we are clearly focused on the issue.
And as we have done in the past we'll be taking several actions to achieve this objective.
Turning now to Page 13.
I will update you on select regulatory matters pending at the Illinois Commerce Commission and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Turning first to Illinois last month Ameren Illinois made its required annual electric delivery rate update filing.
Under Illinois' formula ratemaking our utility is required to file annual rate updates to systematically adjust cash flows over time for changes in cost of service and to true-up any prior period over or under-recovery of such costs.
Our filing seeks a $110 million increase in net annual electric rates to reflect 2014 actual costs expected 2015 infrastructure investments and prior period under-recoveries of costs.
A summary of our filing is included in the appendix to this presentation.
The ICC will review the matter in the months ahead with a decision expected in December of this year and new rates effective early next year.
I'll remind you that each year's Illinois electric delivery earnings are a function of that year's ending rate base the formula determined allowed ROE which is the annual average of 30-year U.S.
Treasury bond yields plus 580 basis points and the ICC authorized equity ratio and are not directly determined by that year's rate update filing.
We also have a natural gas delivery rate case pending in Illinois.
In January of this year we requested a $53 million annual increase based on the future test year ending in December 2016.
Our filing also included a proposal for a decoupling mechanism that would permit us to collect our authorized revenue requirement from residential and small nonresidential customers independent of sales volume fluctuations.
We expect the ICC to issue a decision by December with new rates effective by January of next year.
A summary of this filing is also included in the appendix to today's presentation.
Finally previously mentioned complaint cases seeking to reduce the base allowed ROE for MISO transmission owners including Ameren Illinois and ATXI are pending at the FERC.
The FERC's schedule for the initial case calls for hearings to begin in mid-August with an initial order from an administrative law judge expected by the end of November of this year and a final order from the FERC expected next year.
Finally turning to Page 14.
I will summarize our comments this morning.
We delivered solid first quarter earnings and affirmed earnings per share guidance range for this year of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
As Warner discussed we continue to successfully execute our strategy.
We also continue to expect 6% compound annual rate base growth over the 2014 through 2019 period based on a transparent mix of needed transmission distribution and generation investments across multiple regulatory jurisdictions.
Importantly we are strategically allocating capital to those jurisdictions with modernized regulatory frameworks that support investment.
We believe this highly visible growth is outstanding compared to our regulated utility peers and provides the foundation for superior long-term growth in earnings per share.
Further Ameren's $1.64 per share annualized dividend rate provides investors with a current yield of approximately 4% which is above average compared to our peers.
Through this expected earnings growth coupled with our dividend yield translates into a very attractive total return proposition for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Weinstein with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Julien here.
So first question if you will on the Missouri case and I apologize if this didn't come across.
When is your next expected filing? And how are you thinking about addressing the presumably incremental lag coming from some of the changes in the latest filing? And what's the magnitude of that lag that you would anticipate having from the transmission expense along with some of the other tweaks? So there are multiple questions in there Julien and I'll take a stab at those and maybe others can chime in and supplement as we go.
And if I miss any of your questions we'll let you repeat it.
I think your first question was about when we're going to file our next rate case.
I mean obviously we just received this commission order.
We're in the process of assessing the order and also considering what matters we may ask the commission to consider rehearing on.
So I wouldn't say we're even through the full process of this one.
So it's certainly premature to think about the timing of a next rate case.
What goes into that obviously is assessing this order its impact.
As we mentioned on the call and as you just alluded to we're going to be taking a number of actions to align spending with this rate case outcome.
We'll be looking at our capital expenditures moving forward and the in-service dates.
And all of those things are going to factor into a decision about when a next rate case may be.
Probably important to note that this rate case was about 2.5 years since our last rate increase.
So no telling when the next one will be but like I said those are the various things we'll take into consideration.
You also asked I think about some of those actions that we may be taking to address any lag coming out of this order.
And I think that whenever you go into a rate case it's certainly expected that cost savings that you've achieved over the past couple of years in our case help to mitigate the rate increase for the customer.
And that's certainly what's happened here.
And then what you have to do going forward is to the extent that there are nonrecovered costs for certain areas of your business that you're going to identify actions that you can take within your business to overcome those to offset those.
As I said on the call our goal continues to be to earn at or very near to our allowed returns and that's going to be our objective going forward.
And without providing any specifics certainly have processes underway today as part of our annual planning processes to identify and implement those actions which are needed to achieve that objective.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And could you perhaps quantify a little bit what your lag expectations are? I suppose it's a little early right in the context of identifying offsetting cost cuts.
And then maybe just more specifically on the transmission expense side.
How much of the rate lag specifically or what kind of inflation rate have you been seeing of late? I imagine that's probably the most critical item there.
Yes.
Sure.
That's right.
Those were parts of your other question.
I guess number one Julien we don't think about sort of an amount of lag that we're targeting or that we expect.
As I said a moment ago I mean our objective is to earn at or very close to our allowed return.
That has been our objective and it continues to be our objective.
Now there are going to be elements that are things that would have to be overcome.
Now we'll -- on this transmission piece in the FAC there what's happened is transmission revenues and costs are coming out of the FAC and then would go into base rates and would be handled that way subject to potential rehearing on that issue with the commission.
I would tell you that today just to give you an order of magnitude in 2015 we expect transmission revenues and transmission expenses in Ameren Missouri to be around $35 million.
However those revenues and those expenses change over time.
And one of the reasons that we view them as being appropriate for being in the FAC is that frankly those costs are outside of our control and they can be volatile.
And to give an example I think what was put into our base rates reflected a differential between revenues and expenses of about $6 million where revenues had exceeded expenses.
So that gives you I think some sense of the magnitude of the numbers and the change we've seen here recently.
Hard to say what the change will be prospectively.
Obviously again as I said those costs are outside of our control.
So what that may -- if it's not in the FAC what that may mean for us in terms of prospective lag is really uncertain at this time.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But just to be clear though if you may permit me.
Your expectation is that you will be able to continue to earn at or around your earned or your authorized level? Julien that is our objective and we work each year to align our costs to achieve that objective.
Julien I just would add on that I mean I think we have a good track record that we've shown over this past couple of years of actually achieving that objective.
But thank you for your questions.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Just on the long-term growth rate which -- how should we think about that now? Well in terms of the long-term growth rate you're speaking about the rate base or the earnings per share? I'm talking about the earnings per share.
That doesn't seem to be in the slide deck this time around.
Yes.
Sure.
That's fine Paul.
I just wanted to clarify.
I mean obviously in the slides we talked about our 6% compound annual rate base growth from '14 to '19.
I mean you're right.
What we didn't do is specifically mention the earnings per share growth.
And I think going forward the reason for that is really simply that we plan to formally update you and others on the long-term earnings growth plans on an annual basis consistent with our annual planning cycles.
But that being said as we sit here today we do continue to be confident in our ability to deliver within that 7% to 10% compound earnings per share growth range that we previously talked about which is from 2013 to 2018.
As you know Paul that growth is driven by base growth that I just mentioned.
It's driven by reduction in parent and other costs that we've been achieving.
It's driven by the modernization and reinvestment of tax assets that we have about $440 million of tax assets at the parent company.
And also incorporated in there is our expectation of rising interest rates in achieving that 7% to 10% growth.
What we don't plan to do is provide quarterly updates on the long-term plans going forward based on I would say short-term movements in interest rates or changes in allowed returns.
We take all of that data of course into consideration as we prepare our -- do our annual planning and think about where we're going to allocate capital and how we're going to modify our longer-term growth plan.
Now the -- so I guess that means -- does that mean that like from quarter-to-quarter internally you guys might think that this number might be changing? Or is this more of a sort of a cosmetic thing in terms of just simply leaving it alone until the -- in a more annual basis because that would make more sense than changing it I guess quarterly or quarter.
Is that -- how should we think about that? Sure.
Sure Paul.
It's a fair question.
No I mean what we're not doing I would say is internally updating our 5-year earnings per share growth outlook each quarter based on changes.
It's frankly a fairly comprehensive process that we and I'm sure other companies go through on an annual basis to think about changes in long-term interest rate forecast long-term ROE forecast changes in regulatory frameworks changes in customer needs changes in technology and really think about what kinds of investment should be made for the benefit of our customers where they should be made when they should be made.
And all of those things factor into our long-term investment plans and our long-term EPS growth.
So we do do those comprehensive planning processes on an annual basis.
And we'll be planning then to roll that out and roll it into the guidance we provide you and others on an annual basis about what our long-term growth plans are.
Paul I would just add a couple months ago when we provided our guidance I was asked a question about "Well are you going to hit that 7% to 10% in the current ROE environment?" And what I'd said on that call and I certainly stand by is that if we held the ROEs that were embedded into our guidance flat through time we still expect to be in that 7% to 10% range albeit potentially at the lower end.
And I have to say that while we haven't completely reassessed our long-term model I do remain confident that even with this lower Missouri ROE and holding the other ROEs embedded in our current guidance flat we do have that flexibility within the guidance range and within our business plans to be able to achieve at least that 7% end of our growth.
So and that growth as you know that 7% earnings per share growth is superior I think to the average of our regulated peers.
And we fully expect that interest rates over time will rise that ROEs will rise and that will certainly help to drive earnings higher within that range.
Okay.
Just to sort of follow-up here on the regulatory environment and the legislative environment in Missouri.
You guys went over the rate case.
Not exactly what you guys wanted and it looks like the legislative efforts if I understand you guys they're dead for this year.
Do you think that there's any rate case fatigue? I mean let me put it right out there.
I mean do you think that there's maybe -- there may be a limit in terms of revenue increases in Missouri? And then just to sort of follow that through do you have any opinion of the legislation that's happening in Illinois with respect to nuclear and the other sort of clean job stuff and what have you that's been garnering a lot of attention in Springfield? Paul we'll try -- this is Marty again.
We'll try to take those in order.
I think on the Missouri ones -- and maybe Michael Moehn who's with us here who's the head of our Missouri operations could take the first part of your question.
Yes.
Great.
Thanks Marty.
With respect to the fatigue certainly these increases have been hard on customers.
We recognize that.
We try to do everything we can to mitigate the impact on customers.
But at the end of the day all of these investments that we're making are really to continue to provide safe and adequate and reliable service.
And so we're going to continue to do what we think is necessary to deliver on that promise.
And with respect to legislation in Missouri we do remain very focused on trying to get something across the finish line.
And we continue to talk with stakeholders legislators about the importance of modernizing the regulations in Missouri to make sure that we're able to continue to build out the grid of the 21st century.
We'll continue to remind them of the good things that are going on in Illinois referencing what's happening in Arkansas and Wisconsin and Michigan.
And so I think through a constant relentless pursuit of it we're going to get it across the finish line at some point.
It's difficult to say exactly when it's going to be -- when that's going to happen but we are going to continue to put every effort into making that happen.
But it won't be this year right? Yes.
I think that is a fair assumption at this point in time.
Okay.
And then if you could follow-up on Illinois.
I don't want to take up any more time.
Yes that's okay.
Paul this is Warner.
Richard Mark is here too.
So Richard maybe you can give a little perspective on the Illinois legislation? Well there's 3 bills pending in Illinois.
We're just continuing to monitor those bills to see which one of them will -- which of them will be called for hearings in the near future.
The session in Illinois ends May 31.
So we're going to continue to monitor those to see which ones -- how they affect our customers through improvements and value as well as the impact that would have on increased cost to our customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> You guys have answered a lot of my questions.
I was looking back at the disclosures from the end of the year call.
And I can't remember did you disclose explicitly what ROE you're reserving to or was it just that you're making assumptions that are less explicit? Yes Greg.
This is Marty.
What we had talked about on that call and repeat here I mean obviously we've got active litigation and we don't want to get into specifics.
But what we did say then is our guidance reflected approximately the outcome of the ISO New England order last year plus a 50 basis point adder.
And that kind of an ROE was embedded into our guidance and that's what we continue to reflect in our ongoing results.
And it's also reflected in our current guidance for 2015.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Real quick I want to make sure I understand some things.
In the quarter O&amp;M was down a lot this quarter and came in a good bit better.
Can you just talk about whether that's seasonality whether there were some things that will put upwards pressure on O&amp;M towards the back half of the year or is this a kind of a new run rate? Michael I'll try to answer as best I can.
This is Marty again obviously.
But yes the O&amp;M was down.
The O&amp;M was down principally at Missouri.
When you see the 10-Q you'll get some further detailed breakdown I suppose by legal entity.
But I'll tell you that Illinois was about flat and the real driver was lower Missouri.
And I would say that that's just in general just efforts to contain cost.
There were some specific costs that we had last year at our Callaway plant that did not recur in the current period.
But I would say overall our focus is to continue to work to improve the productivity of our operations to find ways to control cost.
And I can't really be specific with you in terms of trends for the remainder of the year in O&amp;M.
But I will tell you that just in general and especially in light of the rate case outcome that we had we're going to continue to be very cost conscious and manage O&amp;M very carefully.
Michael I'd just add this is Warner.
This is not something new.
This is not something new.
We have been very disciplined in managing our costs.
And as Marty rightfully said a moment ago is we manage those costs between rate cases.
It helps address regulatory lag.
And then as we have the rate cases it certainly provides a significant benefit to customers.
And we're not done.
We're going to continue to do that both in Missouri and across our enterprise because it's the right thing to do.
And so I know others have raised the questions on regulatory lag.
We cite that obviously the regulatory lag may become more challenging.
At the same time we're geared up to address those issues internally and are still very focused and confident that the execution of our plan is going to deliver superior value to -- not just to our shareholders but also to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And want to a circle back on the transmission ROE.
Your guidance assumed a lower ROE.
Is there any change in the guidance level the ROE? I know this is piggybacking off of Greg's question a little bit.
But want to just make sure I understand kind of the puts and takes versus original guidance and what you're saying today.
Sure Michael.
I'll reiterate.
Basically what's in our new guidance our current updated guidance reflects exactly what we had in our guidance in the beginning of the year.
So we said then and we say now what it reflects is basically the outcome of the ISO New England order plus 50 basis points.
And so that gives you an approximation of where we're booking a reserve to what the effective earned ROE is that we're reflecting in our financial statement this year.
Obviously we don't know where those cases will come out.
We certainly think that the testimony that was filed by the MISO TOs and our own witnesses speak for itself.
And we'll let that play out here over the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One last item.
Thinking about Illinois and MISO transmission opportunities.
I mean you've got a very healthy rate base growth opportunity there over the next 4 or 5 years.
But trying to think about what could be incremental to what's already in your plan.
Can you talk a little bit about the Order 1000 process on the MISO and whether projects are soon to be put out to bid or whether there's another round of potential Order 1000-related projects that you could potentially be a participant in an RFP on or updates on the MTEP process as well? Sure Michael.
I think the best person to speak to that is Maureen Borkowski who's the head of our transmission business.
Maureen do you want to comment on this question? Sure.
MISO is in the process of getting some Order 1000 things started.
They're a little behind the curve relative to the other RTOs.
And just to clarify at the present time our business development folks are active not only in the MISO Order 1000 process but also in PJM and Southwest Power Pool.
We actually have some proposals active in some of the PJM solicitation windows right now.
And as you've mentioned correctly any kind of success in that venue in any of those MISO PJM SPP is all incremental to the rate base growth and investment that we've already talked about today.
But we're not necessarily relying on that to provide our future growth pipeline.
We have a great deal of investment opportunity remaining in our utility systems both for reliability needs aging infrastructure replacement and modernization of the grid.
We also expect the Clean Power Plan will likely have some impact on the generation fleet in our service territory which will also drive local transmission projects.
And all of those opportunities that I mentioned are really ours to deliver on.
They're not subject to any of the competitive process in MISO.
So we certainly are active in the competitive space but we're not relying on that to provide our pipeline.
We have lots of other opportunities as well.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
I just wanted to kind of tail on to that only because yesterday on an earnings call one of the Kansas utilities talked about the SPP and just mentioned that they had only put out one small Order 1000 project bid no others for RFP.
Do you know the number of potential projects that the MISO is likely to put out to bid and when those RFPs would come out? I really couldn't speculate on that.
It is supposed to be in the MTEP 2016 process I guess which begins effectively in August of this year.
So sometime late next year.
Michael it's Marty.
Just a couple of things.
I think it was implied in your question but obviously our rate base growth plans that we put out there today and in prior call 6% doesn't include any kind of expectation for any kind of FERC Order 1000 competitive wins.
So if anything was achieved there it'd certainly be incremental.
As Maureen described we've got a good pipeline of local reliability projects.
That goes on beyond the 5-year period.
Certainly there could be some incremental for our current 5-year plan.
But I'd also mention that as we discussed last time I think you asked a question in the last call and I responded I mean certainly there could be of an incremental investment in other areas of our business particularly in the gas area where there's the possibility that new federal rules will come into play that will actually cause us to increase the amount of investment that we need to make for replacement of aging infrastructure.
So there are number of things including transmission on top of transmission that present additional rate base growth opportunity.
Appreciate the question.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
At this time we've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the floor back to Mr.
Doug Fischer for closing comments.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for 1 year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today's release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today's news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Ameren Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren.
Thank you Mr.
Fischer.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I am Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for 1 year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers who may use terms or acronyms which are defined in the presentation.
To access this presentation please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts &amp; Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statements section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and risk factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with comments on second quarter financial results full year 2015 earnings guidance and a business update.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of second quarter results and an update on financial and regulatory matters.
We will then open the call for questions.
Now here is Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced second quarter 2015 core earnings of $0.58 per share compared with core earnings of $0.62 per share in last year’s second quarter.
Results reported today we remain on track to deliver solid earnings growth in 2015 and expect that 2015 core earnings to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
Key drivers of our second quarter core earnings are listed on this page.
I will highlight a couple of them and Marty will discuss each of these drivers later in the call.
Consistent with our strategic plan year-over-year earnings comparisons are benefiting from the significant investments we are making to better serve our customers.
These incremental investments continue to be targeted towards our electric transmission and delivery businesses that operate on their formulaic ratemaking.
However in the second quarter of 2015 milder weather grow retail electric sales volumes and earnings lower than second quarter 2014 levels.
Further seasonal rate redesign and variances in the timing of revenue recognition and the formulaic ratemaking in Illinois also negatively affected the comparisons for the quarter and year-to-date periods but these effects are expected to reverse over the remainder of the year.
Our second quarter 2015 core earnings do exclude two unusual items.
Those are results from discontinuing operations primarily reflecting recognition of a tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of an uncertain tax position and a loss provision resulting from discontinuing the pursuit of a construction and operating license for a second nuclear unit in Ameren Missouri’s Callaway Energy Center.
This relates to development costs incurred in 2008 and 2009 and is reflected in continuing operations.
While we continue to believe nuclear power must be an important clean energy source for our company and country as evidenced by the 20-year license extension we received this past March for our Callaway Energy Center this loss provision was driven by recent changes in vendor support for licensing efforts at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission our assessment of long-term capacity needs declining cost of alternative generation technologies and the regulatory framework in Missouri among other things.
Again Marty will discuss second quarter earnings in more detail in a few minutes.
Turning now to Page 5 here we reiterate our strategic plan.
We remain focused on executing this strategy and strongly believe that we will deliver superior long-term value to both our customers and shareholders.
I would like to highlight some of our year-to-date efforts and accomplishments towards this end.
These include our continued strategic allocation of significant amounts of capital to those businesses whose investments are supported by modern constructive regulatory frameworks which provides fair predictable and timely cost recovery and also deliver long-term benefits to our customers.
This capital allocation is illustrated in the graphic on the right side of this slide.
As you can see we invested $556 million of our $846 million of capital expenditures for the first half of this year in jurisdictions with these modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
This represents about 65% of our first half 2015 total capital expenditures and is an 11% increase over the amount invested in these jurisdictions during the first half of 2014.
Approximately $300 million was invested in FERC-regulated electric transmission projects in the first half of this year driven by ongoing construction work on ATXI’s $1.4 billion Illinois Rivers transmission project.
Construction is well underway on the first line segment with more than 80% of the 132 tower structures already erected.
Completion of this segment is expected next year.
Further foundation construction is underway on two additional line segments as well as 8 of 10 substations.
In addition I am pleased to note that in May the Missouri Public Service Commission approved a certificate of convenience and necessity for the 7-mile Missouri portion for the Illinois Rivers project.
Turning to ATXI’s Spoon River project in Northwestern Illinois just last week Illinois Commerce Commission Administrative Law Judges issued a proposed order recommending approval of a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity and we expect the ICC to issue an order later this year.
We also have a pending request at the Missouri Public Service Commission for Certificate of Convenience and Necessity for the Mark Twain project in Northwestern Missouri and expect a decision early next year.
All three of these transmission projects Illinois Rivers Spoon River and Mark Twain are MISO-approved multi-value projects.
With regard to the cases pending at the FERC challenging MISO’s base allowed ROE of 12.38% for transmission services we and other MISO transmission owners continue to strongly advocate for an ROE level that is fair and that will continue to incentivize the transmission investment needed to ensure a robust grid for our nation.
Marty will give you more details in a moment but I would like to point out that first consideration of these cases is expected to extend into 2016 and 2017.
Turning to Page 6 of our presentation let me provide an update on the execution of our strategic plan at Ameren Illinois.
We invested approximately $250 million in Illinois electric and natural gas delivery infrastructure project in the first half of this year including those that are part of Ameren Illinois’ modernization action plan.
This work enabled by Illinois’ Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act is on track to meet or exceed its investments the liability advanced metering and job creation goals.
Ameren Illinois customers are experiencing fewer and shorter power outages as a result of electric grid updates.
System modernization program began in 2012 the installation of storm-resilient utility poles automated switches and an upgraded distribution grid have resulted in 238 000 fewer annual electric service interruptions on average.
And when customers do experience an outage Ameren Illinois is restoring power 19% faster on average than in previous years.
Further installations of advanced electric meters were ahead of schedule.
In 2015 Ameren Illinois plans to deploy 142 000 electric meters at customer locations in Central Illinois and Southern Illinois.
Also more than 330 employees and an additional 1 000 contract workers have been hired to support investments in Ameren Illinois’ electric system and operations.
As a result we are on track to repeat our full time equivalent job creation commitment.
All of these benefits are being driven by the forward thinking and constructive regulatory frameworks that support investment in Illinois.
Of course all of this progress requires timely recovery of our investments and constructive regulatory outcomes.
We are clearly focused on achieving positive resolutions for our pending Illinois electric delivery from the rate update preceding and natural gas delivery rate case.
While Marty will cover these cases in more detail a bit later I will mention that earlier this week Ameren Illinois Illinois Commerce Commission staff the Citizen’s Utility Board and the Illinois Industrial Energy Consumers filed a stipulation and agreement on issues in our pending natural gas delivery case.
This agreement includes a 9.6% ROE among other things which compares to the current allowed ROE of 9.08%.
We look forward to the ICC’s decision in this case later this year.
In Missouri our efforts are well underway to align operating and capital spending with the electric rate order we received in April as we pursue our goal of earning at/or close to our allowed ROE.
We are leveraging ongoing enterprise-wide lean continuous improvement efforts with the natural attrition we are experiencing with our workforce as well as aggressively pursuing additional cost reductions throughout our supply chain among other things.
And finally we are continuing our relentless advocacy efforts of Missouri’s policymakers and key stakeholders.
Our message is simple and straightforward.
Modernizing the state’s regulatory framework is essential to support needed investments to upgrade the stat’s aging electric utility infrastructure in a timely manner and to create jobs.
We remain convinced that such monetization will yield benefits similar to those that the State of Illinois is realizing today and is clearly in the best long-term interest of our customers and the economic vitality of Missouri as a whole.
Moving to environmental matters we await the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s final Clean Power Plan regulations which are expected to be issued soon.
In recent month we have engaged an extensive discussions with industry leaders state and federal regulatory and legislative leaders including policymakers in the White House and the EPA and other stakeholders.
In these discussions we have aggressively advocated for constructive and responsible improvements to the EPA’s proposed plan.
Those improvements include incorporating a better glide path to achieve the final 2030 targets as well as protections to ensure that our nation’s grid is able to operate in a reliable fashion.
And importantly we are seeking to protect our customers from the significant lines and electricity costs while at the same time making meaningful progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
While I can’t predict what will be in the final rules I am hopeful that the collective advocacy efforts by Ameren and many other like-minded key stakeholders will result in meaningful improvements in the final Clean Power Plan issued by the EPA.
In any event should the EPA’s final rules require that we alter and accelerate our transition plans we fully expect that required investments will be treated fairly by our regulators.
And let me assure you that we are committed to transitioning to a cleaner more fueled diverse generation portfolio in a responsible fashion.
Recently we announced plans for new solar facility west of St.
Louis.
The 13-megawatt Montgomery renewable energy center will be the largest investor-owned solar facility in the State of Missouri and three times the size of our O'Fallon solar facility which went into service last December.
The new facility is expected to be completed by the end of 2016.
One last environmental update last month the U.S.
Supreme Court issued a ruling on the EPA’s Mercury and Air Toxic Standards or MATS rule.
In short the Supreme Court determined that the DC Circuit Court of Appeals aired in deciding that the EPA was not required to consider costs when it developed the MATS rule.
However the Supreme Court decision did not vacate the rule.
It remains in effect until a further decision by the DC Circuit Court of Appeals.
This MATS rule is still in effect there has been no change in our compliance strategy and we expect to fully comply with the rule before April of next year.
A most significant capital project complied with this rule enhancing the electrostatic precipitators at the Labadie Energy Center which was completed last year.
That project was included in our electric rates during our most recent rate case in Missouri.
Turning now to Page 7 and our long-term growth outlook in February of this year we outlined our plan to grow rate base at a solid 6% compound annual rate over the 2014 through 2019 period.
As the graphics on this page illustrates and aligned with our previously mentioned strategic plan this growth is being driven by the allocation of significant amounts of capital the FERC-regulated transmission and Illinois electric and natural gas delivery services.
Such investments are supported by regulatory frameworks that provide fair predictable and timely cost recovery and they deliver long-term benefits to our customers.
Turning now to Page 8 in addition we have consistently stated that we have a strong pipeline of investments beyond those reflected on the previous page to meet our customers’ future electric and gas energy needs and expectations.
To that end in recent months we have identified $500 million to $1 billion of potential investments in our Illinois electric and gas businesses which would be incremental to those incorporated into the 2014 to 2019 rate base growth plan just mentioned.
Such investments will be directed to the reconstruction and replacement of aging distribution system infrastructure such as lines breakers transformers and underground network facilities to sustain and improve reliability for our customers.
Further these investments include infrastructure capacity upgrades and additions in higher growth areas of the service territory.
In Ameren Illinois’ natural gas delivery business incremental capital would be directed to gas transmission line replacements associated with evolving pipeline safety regulations and aging distribution maintenance and service replacement project.
Finally in Ameren Illinois’ FERC-regulated electric transmission business identified projects are primarily reliability related including compliance with new NERC reliability standards and age-based replacements of equipment.
We will evaluate these potential increment investments over the balance of this year as part of our now normal annual planning process.
As Marty will discuss further given the strength of our balance sheet and added confidence in the strength of our prospective cash flows resulting from the recent IRS sign off on our 2013 tax return and associated tax assets we believe we have the ability to fund the growth plans we announced in February as well as these potential incremental investments without issuing any additional equity.
Turning now to Page 9 in summary we have a strong long-term earnings growth outlook driven by above-peer average rate base growth that is focused on a transparent mix of utility infrastructure investments and jurisdictions with modern constructive rate-making that is formulaic but uses a future test year.
Earlier this year we reiterated our expectations for compound annual growth of 7% to 10% and earnings per share from continuing operations over the period 2013 to 2018.
As we said on our May earnings call we plan to formally update our long-term earnings growth expectations on an annual basis consistent with our planning cycle.
That said the $500 million to $1 billion of additional investment opportunities I just described and our added conviction concerning the ability to finance our growth without issuing an additional equity certainly bolstered my confidence in our ability to achieve earnings growth within those expectations.
In addition to a superior earnings growth outlook Ameren offers an attractive annualized dividend of $1.64 per share and a current yield of about 4.1% which is also superior from our regulated peer average.
We remain focused on delivering a solid dividend as we recognize its importance to our shareholders.
Of course any future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows and economic and other business conditions.
In closing we believe our shares offer very attractive total return potential for our investors.
We are committed to executing the strategy I have discussed with you today and we continue to believe that will deliver superior long-term value to both our customers and our shareholders.
Again thank you for joining us on today’s call.
And I will now turn the call over to Marty.
Thank you Warner.
Good morning everyone.
Turning now to Page 11 of our presentation today we reported second quarter 2015 GAAP earnings of $0.61 per share which matched second quarter 2014 GAAP earnings.
Excluding results from discontinued operations and 2015 loss provision for discontinuing pursuit of a license for a second nuclear unit at Callaway Ameren recorded second quarter 2015 core earnings of $0.58 per share compared with second quarter 2014 core earnings of $0.62 per share.
Second quarter 2015 earnings from discontinued operations were $0.21 per share primarily resulting from recognition of a tax benefit related to resolution of an uncertain tax position.
This tax benefit reflects a settlement reached in June with the IRS which resolved tax matters associated with the divestiture of our merchant-generation business.
As Warner mentioned with this settlement in hand we have even greater confidence in our ability to fund the growth plan we announced in February as well as the potential incremental investments discussed without issuing any additional equity including no issuances of equity through our dividend reinvestment and 401(k) plan.
As of June 30 our combined tax benefits from net operating loss carry-forwards tax credit carry-forwards and expected refunds stand at $643 million including $454 million at the Ameren parent company level which are expected to offset income tax liabilities into 2017.
In addition to excluding discontinued operations core earnings also excluded the previously mentioned Callaway license-related provision which was $0.18 per share.
Turning now to page 12 here we highlight factors that drove the $0.04 per share decline in second quarter 2015 core earnings compared to second quarter 2014 core earnings.
Key factors included lower retail electric sales volumes which reduced earnings by $0.04 per share.
Milder early summer temperatures accounted for an estimated $0.03 per share of this decline with the balance due to energy efficiency partially offset by revenue recovery authorized by the Missouri Public Service Commission under the state’s Energy Efficiency Investment Act.
And lower Missouri industrial sales stemming primarily from a prolonged reduction in consumption by Ameren Missouri’s largest customer Noranda Aluminum.
Second quarter 2015 temperatures were near normal compared with the warmer than normal early summer temperatures experienced in the prior year period.
We estimate that weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers in Illinois increased almost one half of 1% and in Missouri they decreased about three quarters of 1%.
As mentioned in Missouri the negative earnings in fact have declined and electric sales volumes due to our energy efficiency programs is compensated for under provisions of the utilities energy efficiency plan.
Excluding the estimated effects of these Missouri programs we estimate that sales to residential and commercial customers would have also increased by almost one half of 1%.
Kilowatt hour sales to Illinois and Missouri’s industrial customers decreased 3% and 4% respectively reflecting lower sales to a large low-margin Illinois agricultural customer and the aforementioned lower sales to Noranda Aluminum.
As noted on this page the second quarter earnings comparison was also negatively affected by $0.02 per share by a seasonal rate redesigned and the timing of revenue recognition under formula ratemaking each related to Ameren Illinois electric delivery.
These same factors reduced first half 2015 earnings by $0.04 per share compared to the prior year period but we expect they will reverse by year end.
In addition the earnings contribution from electric transmission and delivery investments at ATXI and Ameren Illinois was reduced by $0.02 per share for the quarter and four spread cents per share for the first half because of lower recognized allowed ROEs.
Transmission earnings for the year ago quarter reflected the current MISO-based allowed ROE of 12.38%.
However this quarter’s transmission earnings were reduced by a reserve to reflect the potential for a lower allowed ROE as a result of the pending complaint cases at the FERC.
We began recognizing such reserves in the fourth quarter of last year.
The net ROE recognized in our second quarter 2015 transmission earnings is comparable with the level incorporated into our first quarter 2015 earnings and the 2015 earnings guidance provided in February.
Regarding second quarter 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings these incorporated an 8.75% allowed ROE compared with 9.4% in the year ago period.
This decline was due to a decrease in the assumed annual average 30-year treasury rate from 3.6% to 2.95%.
Of course full year 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings will incorporate the actual 2015 average 30-year treasury rate.
Finally depreciation and amortization expenses increased in jurisdictions not subject to formulaic ratemaking negatively affecting earnings by approximately $0.01 per share.
Moving to factors that had a favorable fact on the second quarter earnings comparison increased investments in electric transmission and delivery infrastructure under formula ratemaking increased earnings by $0.04 per share compared with the year ago quarter and earnings benefited by $0.02 per share from a lower effective income tax rate both of which I will discuss further on the next page.
Turning then to Page 13 first I would like to remind you that we expect our 2015 core diluted earnings to be in a range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
On this page we list select items for you to consider as you update your earnings outlook for the remainder of the year.
These include the effect on earnings that a return to normal temperatures would have on this year’s remaining quarters compared with those of last year.
In particular a return to normal weather in the third quarter would boost earnings by an estimated $0.09 per share compared to the mild year-ago quarter.
Over the balance of this year we also expect increased earnings from our FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois electric delivery services as we continue to make significant infrastructure investments under formula ratemaking.
As I mentioned we have been recording a reserve to reflect the potential for a lower FERC-allowed ROE since the fourth quarter of last year.
The cumulative reserve recorded in that quarter was retroactive to November 12 2013 the date the first MISO ROE complaint case was filed.
The absence in the fourth quarter of this year of the prior period portion of the fourth quarter 2014 reserve is expected to benefit this year’s fourth quarter earnings comparison.
Moving to a couple of factors that are anticipated to negatively affect the second half 2015 earnings comparison depreciation and amortization expenses are expected to increase for our businesses not operating under formula rates and capitalized financing costs are expected to decline reflecting a year-over-year decline in ongoing Ameren-Missouri capital projects.
In 2014 a significant number of Ameren Missouri capital projects were in process and ultimately placed into service late in the year.
Back on the positive side earnings for the balance of the year are expected to benefit from a lower effective income tax rate.
Our forecasted 2015 effective income tax rate is approximately 38% a decrease from the 2014 effective rate which was approximately 39%.
In addition I want to remind you of additional factors that will affect the fourth quarter comparison.
The absence of the Callaway Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage is expected to boost fourth quarter 2015 earnings by approximately $0.08 per share compared with the year-ago quarter.
The next Callaway refueling is scheduled for the spring of 2016.
Further this year’s fourth quarter will reflect the absence of a 2014 benefit resulting from a regulatory decision authorizing Ameren Illinois to recover previously disallowed debt redemption costs of $0.03 per share.
Of course these are only some of the factors that will have an effect on balance of the year 2015 earnings as compared to 2014.
Turning now to page 14 I will update you on select pending regulatory matters.
Turning first to Illinois in April Ameren Illinois made its required annual electric delivery rate update filing with the ICC.
Under its formula ratemaking Ameren Illinois is required to file annual rate updates to systematically adjust cash flows overtime for changes in cost of service and to true-up any prior period over or under-recovery of such costs.
Our filings speaks of $110 million increase in net annual electric rates to reflect 2014 actual costs expected 2015 infrastructure investments and prior period under-recoveries of costs.
A summary of our filing is included in the appendix to this presentation.
The ICC staff testimony filed in mid-July recommended a rate update that is just $3 million less than Ameren Illinois’ request.
Interveners recommended rate updates that are $18 million to $19 million less than our request.
As noted on this page significant portions of these interveners’ adjustments relate to a position that the ICC has rejected in its past formula rate orders.
An ICC decision is expected in December of this year with new rates effective early next year.
Turning now to Page 15 we also have a natural gas delivery rate case pending in Illinois.
In January of this year we requested a rate increase based on a future test year ending in December 2016.
As Warner mentioned earlier this week Ameren Illinois the Illinois Commerce Commission Staff the Citizens Utility Board and the Illinois Industrial Energy Consumers filed a stipulation and agreement on issues in our pending natural gas delivery case.
This agreement includes a 9.6% ROE among other things.
Our original rate request incorporated a 10.25% ROE while the staff had recommended a 9.31% ROE in their June testimony.
For reference the current allowed ROE for this business is 9.08% effective January of 2014.
Our annual rate increase request is now approximately $45 million after incorporating the stipulation and agreement that I just mentioned.
We estimate the ICC staff’s June testimony in this case adjusted for the stipulation supports an approximately $44 million rate increase.
In addition to the parties to the stipulation the Illinois Attorney General filed testimony in the case in June which advocated a number of downward adjustments to our requested revenue requirement most of them related to operating expenses.
However the Attorney General did not file ROE testimony.
Our filing also included a proposal for a volume balancing adjustment for residential and small non-residential customers.
This would ensure that changes in natural gas sales volumes do not resolve in an over or under-collection of natural gas revenues for these classes.
And I am pleased to report that none of the parties to the case have opposed our request for this volume-balance adjustment mechanism.
We expect the ICC to issue a decision by December with new rates effective by January of next year.
A summary of this filing is also included an appendix to today’s presentation.
Turning now to Page 16 I will update you on some regulatory matters pending at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
As previously mentioned there are two pending complaint cases seeking to reduce the base-allowed ROE from MISO transmission owners including Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
The anticipated schedules for these cases are outlined on this page.
In the first case the ROE decision is expected to be based on market data for the six months ended February 11 2015 and the schedule calls for an initial decision from an administrative law judge by the end of this November with a FERC final order expected sometime in 2016.
In the second case the ROE decision is expected to be based on market data for the six months ended December 31 of this year and the schedule calls for an initial decision from administrative law judge by the middle of next year with the FERC final order expected in 2017.
Moving then to Page 17 in Missouri hearings were held last week for our proposed 2016 to 2018 Missouri energy efficiency plan.
This plan would replace the current one which has been in effect since 2013 and expires at the end of this year.
The new plan would provide net customer benefits of $165 million over 20 years and reflects Ameren Missouri’s continued commitment to offering cost effective and realistically achievable energy efficiency programs for its customers.
We expect the Missouri Public Service Commission decision early this fall and if approved the plan would be implemented beginning January 1 2016.
Finally turning to Page 19 I will summarize our comments this morning.
As Warner discussed we continue to successfully execute our strategy.
We delivered second quarter earnings that were solid and we expect our 2015 core diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
In addition we have a superior long-term earnings growth outlook driven by an above peer group average rate base growth plan that is focused on utility infrastructure investment in jurisdictions with modern constructive ratemaking.
As Warner stated earlier this year we reiterated our expectations for compound annual growth of 7% to 10% in earnings per share from continuing operations over the period 2013 through 2018 and we plan to formally update our long-term earnings growth expectations on an annual basis consistent with our planning cycles.
That said the $500 million to $1 billion of additional investment opportunities we discussed today and our added conviction concerning the ability to finance our growth through 2019 without the need for equity given the recent favorable settlement of our 2013 tax return strong financial position and our outlook for cash flows certainly bolsters our confidence in our ability to achieve earnings growth within those expectations.
When you couple our superior earnings growth outlook with Ameren’s dividend which today provides investors with an above peer group average yield of approximately 4.1% we believe our common stock presents a very attractive total return potential for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Brian Russo with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Brian.
The $0.5 billion to $1 billion of CapEx investment upside when might we get an update on that and are there drivers or regulatory hurdles that you have to navigate through in order to feel comfortable increasing the existing CapEx budget? Thanks for the question.
I think really it's going to be a matter of – we have talked before about our annual planning cycles and certainly wanted to provide greater clarity on some of the growth pipeline that we have been communicating about in the past.
But we will be evaluating that potential CapEx over the remainder of the year taking into consideration multiple factors which is really about customer needs balancing that with rate impacts coordinating these projects and the timing of these projects with other projects that we have got ongoing over the next five years making sure we have got the labor vendor support etcetera available to complete all those projects.
So there are number of things that go into the assessment but we would expect to complete that over the remainder of this year and certainly have included on the exact amount by the time we give guidance next February.
Okay great.
And I would imagine that would be upside to the 6% rate base CAGR and correct me if I am wrong but probably put you at the higher end of your EPS CAGR? Well we are certainly – as we have discussed on the call not updating our EPS CAGR.
This added CapEx would certainly be incremental to the rate base growth that we have provided in the slide that we have.
And as we mentioned on the call certainly this added CapEx bolsters our confidence and our ability to achieve the earnings growth within the previously communicated expectations.
Okay.
And correct me if I am wrong but you will not be paying cash taxes through 2016 is that accurate? Yes.
Through 2016 so as it stands right now we will begin paying taxes again sometime in 2017.
Okay great.
And then forgive me that I haven’t read through the gas stipulation yet but what drove the higher ROE in this case versus your previously allowed ROE? I can’t really recollect going back to the last case the factors that got to that.
But certainly here we were successfully able to reach a compromise and accord with the other parties in the case.
And the 9.6% is the outcome of those conversations and will be the ROE pending final decision by the IPC later this year.
Just remind me that the previous gas rate case outcome was that stipulation or did that go to hearing? No it wasn’t.
It went to hearings until that 9.08 from the final – for the previous case was the result of an ICC decision.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Glenn Pruitt with Wells Fargo.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Glenn.
Good morning.
Just for clarification your statement that there will be no equity needs does that include DRIP type programs? Yes Glenn.
Thanks.
Yes if we weren’t clear that is correct.
As we talked about on the call we are able to reach a settlement of our 2013 tax return with the IRS which not only gave us the ability to book the gain we booked in discontinued operations but also it took away uncertainty relative to the overall tax benefit that we have at Ameren Corp.
which we reiterated on the call today was about $454 million of accumulated tax benefits at Ameren Corp.
So with that added certainty as we look at the CapEx investment plans that we have got as we look at our overall financial plans looking out over the next 5 years we really don’t see the need for any equity including from the DRIP and 401(k).
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no additional questions.
I would like to turn the floor back to Mr.
Fischer for concluding comments.
Thank you.
We have next question coming from the line of David Paz with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
Just on the incremental investment opportunities could you just roughly breakdown at least as you see it today how much of that would go toward FERC-regulated transmission? Yes sure.
David this is Marty again.
That $500 million to $1 billion really breaks down about a third a third a third between Illinois Electric Distribution Illinois Gas Distribution and Transmission FERC-regulated transmission.
Okay great.
And second question in your 7% to 10% EPS target or outlook do you – are you still assuming rising ROEs in Missouri and Illinois? Yes David.
Sure.
Just going back to the guidance we have given there that growth has always been driven by the transparent rate base growth plans that we have got the reduction of parent and other costs monetization and reinvestment of the tax assets and certainly the expectation of rising interest rates and ROEs over time.
Okay.
How about the assumed sales growth in that outlook? The assumed sales growth in that outlook David has been about flattish as what our projection is really out through time.
That’s about what we have been seeing this year frankly in terms of the overall sales growth when you take into considerations the energy efficiency programs that we have got.
It’s about flat year-to-date and we expect residential and commercial sales this year again excluding the impacts of our energy efficiency programs in Missouri to be about flat.
So that’s the expectation embedded in those longer term plans.
Great thank you.
Thank you so much.
Thanks David.
Our next question – gentlemen at this time we have a question coming from the line of Joe [indiscernible] with Avon Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi it’s Andy Levi from Avon.
How are you guys doing? Hey Andy.
Andy how are you? That was a really good rundown.
Just want to make sure I heard it correctly so literally no equity at all DRIP ESOP anything through ‘19 is that what you said? Yes Andy.
That is what we have said.
Okay.
So whatever the share count is today that’s what it should be in 2019 is that correct? That’s our expectation as we sit here today Andy yes.
Okay great because I had built in a little bit.
Okay otherwise I think everything else was pretty clear.
When do you typically update your CapEx forecast and the $500 million to $1 billion or whatever else you may come up with when could we possibly – will that be at EI or will that be next year? Andy as I said in response to a question a little while ago we will continue to evaluate that over the remainder of this year.
Most likely I would say we would give an update in February.
And if we have greater clarity to provide before that we would do so.
But as we go through our annual planning process it generally lines up that we would be able to give a comprehensive update on CapEx and rate base growth plans in February.
And I thought you and Warner gave a really good rundown today.
So good job.
Thanks Andy.
Thank you Andy.
Our next question is coming from the line of Kevin Fallon with SIR Capital Management.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
I am sorry if you already walked through this and I missed it but on the incremental $500 million to $1 billion of CapEx I thought you said it was like a third each among the different buckets you highlighted.
Can you walk through the thresholds of what you need to do to get approval to do that? Will the – is it purely formula rates that you won’t need to get approval from the ICC or the FERC or will they have to sign off on the spending? No no real sign-off on the spending.
I mean if you go back after the call and read through the transcript I think we gave some pretty good description of the types of projects that we are looking at which in a lot of cases is replacement of aging infrastructure putting new service in where needed based on certain changes in growth in customer usage as well as certain expenditures that we believe we are going to need to make to meet the safety code requirement and otherwise improve the safety and reliability of our system.
So all of these expenditures look like they are needed for customer service and don’t look to require any specific regulatory approvals.
So just to clarify there it’s effectively as long as you guys you being Ameren deem that they are required and needed that it’s basically file and implement? Yes absolutely.
And as I said earlier in response to a question obviously we have to weigh all this with the timing of other projects we have got in our pipeline make sure that we can execute these well for the benefit of our customers and certainly need to weigh these customer needs in these projects again with other projects in our system and with the rate impacts.
Okay that’s great.
Thank you.
Thanks Kevin.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
At this time I will turn the floor back to Mr.
Fischer for closing comments.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for 1 year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today’s release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today’s news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings and welcome to Ameren Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the country over to your host Mr.
Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I am Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 3 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statements section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin his call with comments on third quarter financial results full year 2015 earnings guidance and a business update.
Marty will follow with a more detailed discussion of third quarter results and an update on financial and regulatory matters including 2016 earnings considerations.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share earnings amounts discussed during today’s presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here is Warner who will start on Page 5 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced solid third quarter 2015 earnings of $1.41 per share compared with earnings of $1.20 per share in the prior period.
The earnings advance reflected higher retail electric sales volumes resulting from warmer summer temperatures that were near normal for the quarter.
The warmer weather raised earnings by an estimated $0.09 per share compared with 2014.
Consistent with our strategic plan year-over-year earnings comparisons are also benefiting from the significant investments we are making to better serve our customers.
These investments continue to be weighted toward our Illinois transmission and electric and gas delivery businesses that operate under framework supportive of infrastructure investment.
Further the seasonal rate redesign and variances in the timing of revenue recognition and the formula ratemaking for our Illinois electric delivery business positively affected the comparisons for the quarter as did a lower effective income tax rate.
These positive variances were offset in part by lower recognized allowed ROEs for our electric transmission and delivery businesses regulated by the FERC and ICC.
I am also pleased to report that our core earnings were $2.44 per share for the first nine months of 2015 which reflects a strong increase from $2.21 per share for the year ago period.
These results exclude certain items we discussed with you during our second quarter conference call.
Based on these solid results today we also narrowed our 2015 core earnings guidance to a range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share which is at the upper half of our prior core earnings guidance of $2.45 to $2.65 per share.
Turning now to Page 6 here we reiterate our strategic plan.
Simply put the execution of this strategy delivered the solid results I just reported to you and I strongly believe it will deliver superior long-term value to both our customers and shareholders.
I would like to highlight some of our year-to-date efforts and accomplishments towards this end.
Overall I am very pleased with our team’s performance through September as we continue to deliver solid value to our customers across all of our businesses.
In particular we continue to allocate significant amounts of capital to those businesses that are supported by modern constructive regulatory frameworks to enhance good reliability and allow customers to better manage their energy usage among other things.
As you can see we invested $886 million or about two-thirds of our $1.3 billion of year-to-date capital expenditures in jurisdictions with these modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
This was a 17% increase over the amount invested in these jurisdictions during the same period last year.
Approximately $475 million was invested in FERC-regulated electric transmission projects including the ongoing construction of ATXI’s $1.4 billion Illinois Rivers transmission project.
Construction is well along on the first of nine line segments of this project with wires being strung across all 132 erected pole structures.
Further foundation work is underway on three additional line segments as is construction of all 10 substations.
In addition I am pleased to note that in September the Illinois Commerce Commission issued a certificate of public convenience and necessity with approximately $150 million Spoon River project.
We are now proceeding with right-of-way acquisition and line construction in this project is expected to begin late next year.
We also have a request pending at the Missouri Public Service Commission for certificate of public convenience and necessity for the approximately $225 million Mark Twain project in Northeastern Missouri and we expect the decision early next year.
All three of these transmission projects Illinois Rivers Spoon River and Mark Twain are MISO approved multi-value projects.
Regarding the cases pending at the FERC challenging MISOs based allowed ROE of 12.38% for electric transmission services we expect the FERC administrative law judge to issue an initial decision in the first of two complaint cases later this month.
However the final FERC orders are not expected until 2016 in the first case and 2017 in the second case.
We continue to advocate for an ROE level that is fair and one that will incentivize the transmission investment needed to ensure a robust grid for our nation.
Turning to Page 7 of my presentation let me provide an update on the execution of our strategic plan at Ameren Illinois.
Here we invested approximately $410 million in electric and natural gas delivery infrastructure projects in the first nine months of this year including those that are part of Ameren Illinois’ Modernization Action Plan.
This work enabled by the state’s Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act continues to provide significant value to our customers and the state of Illinois.
Notably our work remains on track to meet or exceed the investment reliability advanced metering and job creation goals of the act.
We have also been focused on achieving positive resolutions of our pending Illinois electric delivery formula rate update proceeding and natural gas delivery rate case.
Earlier this week we received a constructive proposed order from the administrative law judges in our natural gas delivery case.
In a few weeks we expect an order from the ALJ in our electric delivery case where the differences between the parties have been narrowed to $4 million or less.
At the end of the day based on the progress to-date between the parties and both of these cases we are optimistic that we will receive constructive decisions from the ICC in December.
Moving to Missouri electric service here the regulatory framework is not as constructive as those of FERC or Illinois.
Nonetheless it is our goal to earn at or close to our allowed rate of return in all our jurisdictions.
Of course this objective is more challenging in Missouri given the use of a historical test year and a lengthy regulatory approval process among other things.
As we have done in the past we are working hard to mitigate this lag by leveraging ongoing enterprise-wide lean continuous improvement efforts while aggressively pursuing cost reductions throughout our operating and support organizations.
And when necessary we will seek adjustments to our Missouri rates to address regulatory lag and to earn a fair return on the investments we are making for the benefit of our customers.
One area where Missouri had historically been a leader in terms of a constructive framework was in energy efficiency.
Since 2013 Ameren Missouri has been executing on a comprehensive 3-year energy efficiency plan under the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act or MEIA.
The MEIA has provided electric utilities with the appropriate incentives to make investments in energy efficiency for the benefit of our customers.
I am pleased to say that Ameren Missouri’s first 3-year plan has been even more successful than we anticipated which has resulted in substantial benefits for our customers.
Earlier this year we had a filing with the Missouri Public Service Commission which started to extend these energy efficiency programs for another 3 years utilizing a similar structure as well as incorporating best practices learned from our first program.
Unfortunately last month the Missouri commission issued an order rejecting our proposed plan.
This is disappointing because we believe our proposal provided clear benefits to customers while balancing the interest of shareholders.
Under MEIA proposing an energy efficiency plan is voluntary and we are evaluating our next steps.
Finally I should note we continue our relentless advocacy efforts with Missouri’s policymakers and key stakeholders to enhance the existing regulatory framework to address regulatory lag and support investment.
While we continue to be appropriate investments in Missouri to ensure safe and adequate service Missouri is falling behind other states in modernizing its energy policies and energy infrastructure.
That is why we continued to relentlessly advocate for better policies to support investment in Missouri.
Our message to Missouri policymakers and stakeholders remains simple and straightforward.
Modernizing the state’s regulatory framework is essential to support needed investments to upgrade aging electric utility infrastructure in a timely manner and to create jobs.
We continue to communicate that such modernization will yield benefits similar to those at the state of Illinois and many other states around the country are realizing today and is clearly in the best long-term interest of our customers and the economic vitality of Missouri as a whole.
And while no final decisions have been made we continue to look very closely at potential legislative solutions to address this matter during the upcoming 2016 legislative session.
Turning now to Page 8 and our long-term growth outlook in February of this year we outlined our plan to grow rate base at a solid 6% compound annual rate over the 2014 through 2019 period.
As the graphics on this page illustrate and in line with our strategic plan this growth is being driven by the allocation of significant amounts of capital to FERC-regulated electric transmission in Illinois Electric and natural gas delivery services because these jurisdictions provide constructive regulatory frameworks and the investment benefits to all of our customers.
To that end on our second quarter call we noted that we have identified $500 million to $1 billion of potential investments in our Illinois transmission and electric and gas delivery businesses which will be incremental to those included in the 2014 through 2019 rate base growth plan we outlined in February and illustrated on this page.
We are evaluating these incremental investments as part of our normal annual planning process.
These incremental Illinois investments would be directed to the monetization reconstruction and replacement of aging electric and natural gas delivery infrastructure such as transmission and distribution lines breakers transformers and underground network facilities.
It would sustain and improve reliability for our customers and would primarily occur after 2016.
We will provide an update on our year end call in February when we roll forward our long-term investment outlook.
Turning now to Page 9 in addition to the progress we are making in executing our plans for the current 5-year period we are focused on creating and capitalizing on additional opportunities beyond 2019.
With the support of constructive Illinois ratemaking we expect to continue making significant investments to enhance the reliability and safety of our electric and natural gas delivery systems in the state.
Further we expect to continue to invest in local electric transmission projects which maintain and enhance reliability in our service territory including projects to meet NERC requirements.
In addition our transmission development team continues to pursue FERC-regulated regional electric transmission projects focusing on projects in MISO the PJM Interconnection and the Southwest Power Pool.
Finally we expect to pursue local and regional transmission opportunities to connect renewable energy sources and natural gas fired generation expected to be built to comply with the Clean Power Plan.
Turning to Page 10 in Missouri we have numerous opportunities for additional investment.
These include the installation of advanced meters and replacement of aging transmission and distribution infrastructure.
We also expect that our plan for complying with the Clean Power Plan will provide incremental investment opportunities including those in renewable energy sources and natural gas fired generation.
The impact of the final Clean Power Plan on our operations infrastructure investment plans and customers rates in Missouri and Illinois will be driven by those states implementation plans which may not be finalized until 2018.
While this rule will face legal challenges we are committed to working constructively with state agencies energy providers and other stakeholders in each state to develop implementation plans that provide customers with electric service that is reliable and reasonably priced.
And as we have stated previously we expect any compliance investments to be recovered in rates.
The bottom line is that we believe that the investment opportunities I just described across all of our companies have the potential to provide significant benefits to our customers and shareholders.
Turning now to Page 11 I am pleased to note that last month our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.425 per share reflecting confidence in the outlook for our regulated businesses and our ability to achieve our long-term earnings plans.
This is a 3.7% increase from the prior quarter’s dividend resulting in an annualized equivalent rate of $1.70 per share.
Looking ahead we continue to expect our dividend payout ratio to be between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
Of course future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows and economic and other business conditions.
Turning now to Page 12 let me conclude my comments by reiterating that we are successfully executing our strategy and delivering strong earnings results.
Looking forward we have a superior long-term earnings growth outlook driven by above peer average rate base growth that is focused on investments in jurisdictions with constructive ratemaking.
In addition our shares provide a current yield of about 3.9% which is also superior to the average of our peers.
We believe this earnings growth outlook and dividend provide a very attractive total return potential for investors.
We are committed to executing the strategy I have just discussed with you today and we believe that we will deliver superior long-term value to both our customers and shareholders.
Again thank you all for joining us on today’s call.
Now I will now turn the call over to Marty to cover some of the matters I discussed in greater detail.
Thank you Warner.
Good morning everyone.
Turning now to Page 14 of our presentation today we reported third quarter 2015 earnings of $1.41 per share compared with earnings of $1.20 per share for the prior year period.
There were no adjustments to GAAP earnings for these third quarter periods.
Moving to Page 15 here we highlight factors that drove the $0.21 per share increase in third quarter 2015 results.
Key factors included higher retail electric sales volumes driven by warmer summer temperatures which increased earnings by an estimated $0.09 per share.
Third quarter 2015 temperatures were near normal compared with the cooler than normal summer temperatures experienced in the prior year period.
So for the year-to-date period weather remains an estimated $0.05 favorable compared to normal primarily driven by the colder winter temperatures.
Before I leave the subject of electric sales volumes I would like to briefly report on these for the year-to-date period.
We estimate that weather normalized kilowatt-hour sales to Illinois residential and commercial customers increased by approximately three quarters of 1% while such sales to Missouri residential and commercial customers decreased by approximately three quarter of 1%.
The increase in Illinois sales volumes all users by the commercial sector while the decrease in Missouri sales was driven by the residential sector.
It is important to note that Ameren Missouri’s current energy efficiency plan compensates for the negative earnings effects of reduced electric sales volumes resulting from the plant’s programs.
Excluding the effects of these programs we estimate that sales to Missouri residential and commercial customers would have increased by 0.25%.
For the first nine months of 2015 kilowatt hour sales to Illinois’ and Missouri’s industrial customers decreased about 1% and 1.5% and about 4% respectively reflecting lower sales to a large low margin Illinois agricultural customer and lower sales to our largest Missouri customer Noranda Aluminum due to a reduction in consumption at its aluminum smelter.
Moving back then to a discussion of the quarter’s results.
The third quarter earnings comparison was also positively affected by increased investments in electric transmission and delivery infrastructure using formulaic ratemaking which increased earnings by $0.05 per share compared with the year ago quarter.
In addition the third quarter earnings comparison benefited by $0.06 per share due to a seasonal rate redesign and the timing of revenue recognition under formula ratemaking each related to Ameren Illinois’ electric delivery service.
Year-to-date these two timing-related items had a $0.02 per share net favorable impact on results and we continue to expect they will have no net effect on the full year 2015 earnings.
Finally third quarter earnings benefited by $0.02 per share from a lower effective income tax rate.
Moving to factors that had an unfavorable effect on the third quarter earnings comparison the contributions from electric transmission and delivery investments at ATXI and Ameren Illinois were reduced by a total of $0.03 per share because of lower recognized allowed ROEs.
Transmission earnings for the year ago quarter incorporated the current MISO base allowed ROE of 12.38%.
However since the fourth quarter of last year our transmission earnings have been reduced by a reserve to reflect the potential for a lower allowed ROE as a result of the pending complaint cases at the FERC.
Regarding third quarter 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings these incorporated an 8.67% allowed ROE compared with 9.25% in the year ago period.
This decline was due to a decrease in the assumed annual average 30-year treasury rate from 3.45% to 2.87%.
Of course fully year 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings will incorporate the actual 2015 average 30-year treasury rate.
Turning now to Page 16 first as Warner highlighted we now expect our 2015 core earnings to be in the range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share which is at the high end of our previous guidance range.
On this page we list select items for you to consider as you update your earnings outlook for the remainder of the year.
I will comment on a few of these items.
First let me remind you that last year we earned $0.19 per share in the fourth quarter.
Of course we had a Callaway Energy Center refueling and maintenance outage in the fourth quarter of last year.
The absence of the Callaway refueling outage this year is expected to boost fourth quarter 2015 earnings by approximately $0.08 per share compared with that year ago period.
Second over the balance of this year we also expect increased earnings from our FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois electric delivery services as we continue to make significant infrastructure investments under formula ratemaking.
Moving to factors that are anticipated to negatively affect the fourth quarter 2015 earnings comparison these include a higher effective tax rate reflecting an unusually low rate in the year ago period.
This is expected to reduce earnings by approximately $0.04 per share.
In addition the absence of a 2014 benefit resulting from a regulatory decision authorizing Ameren Illinois to recover previously disallowed debt redemption costs will reduce earnings by $0.03 per share.
Before we leave our discussion of this year I would like to mention that we now expect to issue long-term debt at the Ameren parent company and Ameren Illinois during the fourth quarter to repay a substantial portion of their short-term debt.
We believe now is a prudent time to reduce short-term borrowings.
We have been making primarily to help fund our capital investments including our investments in FERC-regulated transmission.
Turning to Page 17 I will now update you on select pending regulatory matters.
As Warner mentioned our annual Illinois electric delivery formula rate update filing is pending at the ICC.
This filing supports an increase in 2016 electric delivery service rates of $109 million.
The ICC staff supports an annual increase of $107 million and other parties are recommending a $105 million increase.
An ICC administrative law judge recommendation in this case is expected next week with an ICC final decision in December and new rates effective in January.
Moving then to Page 18 we also have a natural gas delivery rate case pending in Illinois in which we have requested a $45 million annual rate increase based on a future test year ending in December 2016.
Earlier this week the ICC administrative law judges hearing the case recommended a rate increase amount that was consistent with our request based on a future test year and incorporating a 9.6% ROE up from the current 9.08% ROE.
The ALJs also recommended approval of our request for a volume balancing adjustment for residential and small commercial customers.
This would ensure that changes in natural gas sales volumes did not result in the over or under-collection of revenues from these classes.
We expect the ICC to issue a decision in December with new rates effective in January.
Turning now to Page 19 as previously mentioned there are two complaint cases pending at the FERC seeking to reduce the base allowed ROE for MISO transmission owners including Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
The anticipated schedules for these cases are outlined on this page.
Moving now to Page 20 we plan to provide 2016 earnings guidance and update our longer term rate base and earnings growth outlook when we release fourth quarter 2015 earnings in February.
However here we list select items to consider as you think about our earnings outlook for next year.
I will highlight some of the more noteworthy ones.
Earnings from our FERC-regulated electric transmission activities are expected to benefit under forward-looking formula ratemaking from higher rate base from investments and projects at Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
For Ameren Illinois electric delivery service we also anticipate increased earnings in 2016 compared with 2015 again reflecting additional infrastructure investments made under formula ratemaking.
The allowed ROE will be of course the average 2016 30-year treasury yield plus 5.8%.
For Ameren Illinois gas delivery service we expect new rates to be in effect in order to reflect rate base levels and increased cost contained in our 2016 forward test year rate case filing.
Moving to a comparatively unfavorable item Ameren Illinois electric delivery service earnings will reflect the absence in 2016 of $0.04 per share of 2015 earnings related to an ICC order approving the recovery of power usage costs.
For Missouri the 2016 earnings comparison is expected to be negatively affected by about $0.09 per share for the Callaway nuclear refueling and maintenance outage scheduled for the spring of 2016 as again there is no refueling outage in 2015.
In addition we expect increases in depreciation transmission and property tax expenses.
Next as Warner noted the Missouri Commission recently rejected a new proposed three-year energy efficiency plan which would have begun in January 2016.
We are studying the order and evaluating whether to file another proposed plan with the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Regardless we do expect to see continuing reduced load from Amren Missouri’s highly successful 2013 to 2015 EMEA energy efficiency program bleed into 2016.
Given that we haven’t finished the 2015 program year it’s premature to estimate what the carryover impact of the current programs will be on 2016.
We will provide an update on our sales expectations in February.
A portion of the impact of this load reduction will be offset by a performance incentive expected to be recognized in 2016 from the 2013 to 2018 program subject to commission approval.
Finally for Missouri we expect 2016 earnings will benefit from a decline in operations and maintenance expenses not subject to riders or regulatory tracking mechanisms excluding of course Callaway refueling outage expenses.
This expectation is the result of our lean continuous improvement and disciplined cost management actions and is consistent with our ongoing efforts to align our spending with the Missouri regulatory framework and decisions as well as economic conditions.
Finally turning to Page 21 I will summarize our comments this morning.
As Warner discussed we continue to successfully execute our strategy.
We have delivered strong earnings year-to-date and expect our 2015 core earnings per share to be in a range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share at the high end of our previous guidance range.
In addition we have a superior long-term earnings growth outlook driven by an above peer group average rate base growth plan that is focused on utility infrastructure investments in jurisdictions with modern constructive ratemaking.
In addition and as we discussed during our second quarter conference call we expect to finance our growth through 2019 without the need for equity.
When you combine our superior earnings growth outlook with Ameren’s recently increased dividend which now provides investors with an above peer group average yield of approximately 3.9% we believe our common stock represents a very attractive total return potential for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line Julien Dumoulin Smith with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Can you hear me? We can Julien.
Thank you.
Excellent.
Well congratulations on the results.
I wanted to first ask you on parent debt issuances can you elaborate given the upcoming issuance how much you are thinking and how you think about general targets there? Good question Julien.
I don’t want to get into specifics in terms of the amount at this point.
But if you take a look at the balance sheet we have about $783 million I believe of short-term debt that’s outstanding.
And as you look through the K you will see – or Q you will see that that balance really resides up at the parent and its money that we have been borrowing on a short-term basis to fund these long-term investments we are making in transmission assets.
So we feel now it’s a good time.
As we said on the call expect to refinance a substantial portion of that with long-term debt.
But I don’t want to get into specifics on amount here yet.
Alright great.
And then secondly you have talked a lot about transmission but I would be curious to hear your thoughts following the Wood River announcement yesterday and potential for Clinton retirements what does that mean for transmission? And perhaps more broadly how do you think about the transmission CapEx budgets in light of MISO planning and also should you get an ROE reduction how does that drive your thinking into this 4Q update on transmission? Well Julien this is Warner.
A lot of questions in there so I think that to kick that off we will let Maureen Borkowski who is the President of our transmission operations give you sort of a general sense on some of your initial questions.
Hi Julien.
Thanks for the questions.
First of all with regard to either Wood River or Clinton which Clinton has not at this point in time definitively said anything.
We work with MISO to define what additional transmission investment is needed to maintain the system reliably.
And then we would move out on developing any projects or making any upgrades that were necessary.
I would point out that any of those would be reliability investments and therefore would not be subject to FERC Order 1000 but we would make those investments ourselves.
I am not sure about the rest of your questions.
Could you kind of repeat what else you were asking? Yes.
I mean I was just thinking more broadly where do we stand on the MISO planning process in light of say PPP and then just in light of getting the FERC Order 1000 processes going how do you think about the transmission budget.
And then perhaps also a related question would be if you do get an ROE reduction does that negatively impact your CapEx budget? So this is Maureen again.
With regard to the Clean Power Plan and with regard to FERC Order 1000 we don’t currently have anything reflected in our current CapEx to address either of those issues.
We do believe that the MISO may be having a very small FERC Order 1000 project approved this year which would then go out with an RFP next year.
And with regard to the Clean Power Plan MISO is actively working on developing a transmission expansion plan to address what they believe would be some of the impacts of the state plans.
Again we would expect to see more of that later next year or even into 2017.
With regard to the ROE all I can say is we still firmly believe that FERC understands the need for continued transmission development and they also understand that the ROE that they set does impact the capital allocation of utilities.
And if they want that investment to continue they need to keep the ROE healthy.
Alright excellent.
Thank you guys for the time.
Thanks Julien.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson with Glenrock Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
With respect to the legislative outlook can you give us a flavor as to what may have changed there that might make you feel more optimistic about something happening if anything has changed.
And just give us a bit of a flavor for what we might be seeing in the spring? Paul this is Warner.
I will comment and then Michael Moehn if he has any additional comments I will ask him to join.
But in terms of what’s different I think there are a couple of things just to be mindful of.
None of these things ultimately guarantee success but there are some differences.
I think number one as we said before we have seen very clearly the constructive outcomes that are resulting from the changes in the Illinois framework constructive outcomes which are benefiting customers and clearly benefiting the entire state of Illinois and so it isn’t just one year.
We are seeing several years of those constructive outcomes and those are certainly notable.
I think the second thing to be mindful of is that earlier this year the Governor issued his comprehensive energy plan that included a host of things.
But also incorporated in there was the recognition for the need to modernize the framework to support investment.
So I think that too is something that will be I am sure a subject of discussion during the upcoming session.
Certainly I think when you look around at the nation and as you follow I think it’s becoming clear as part of our conversations with key stakeholders across the state that Missouri is lagging behind in terms of their framework their policies and their investment.
So you put all those things together.
I think those two are differences.
Coupled with the fact that we do have new leaders both in the House and the Senate and we look forward to working very closely with those new leaders not just next year but in the years ahead.
So all those things I think are certainly you asked for what were some of the differences those are just some of the highlights I would point out there.
In terms of solutions look the bottom line is that there are a lot of solutions that have been – that are out there that we have talked about in the past.
But also ones that are being used utilized across the country.
So I think these are things that we look at but more importantly we discuss with stakeholders because whether there is any legislative initiative that goes forward it will be informed by those conversations with the key stakeholders across the state.
So Michael I will ask you if there is anything else to add.
Well said Warner.
I mean I certainly wouldn’t want to overstate the importance of the comprehensive state energy plan but really it was a thoughtful document it was a collaborative process really brought together through both utilities as well as environmental groups and others.
And there are a number of recommendations in there about modernizing the electric infrastructure enacting legislation that provides for accelerated grid monetization performing Missouri’s utility ratemaking process.
And so there really is a framework I think to bring forth these discussions with a number of interested parties and trying to see that happen because there is a number of things in there they would like to get done as well.
And so I think it really does provide a catalyst to try to put something forward.
I did notice it as well.
But I guess what I am wondering is I mean outside of an actual legislative change what should we think would be the timing for the next Missouri rate case? I would say Paul this is Warner again.
Look I think as we discussed during our last call there have been no decisions on the next Missouri rate case.
And as we have said in our talking points we will be mindful of regulatory lag and the need to file a rate case to make sure that we earn a fair return on those investments.
So no decision has been made but we have to file a rate case within four years.
And so generally speaking that takes you – if that’s under the fuel adjustment cost provisions.
And so that takes you out sometime until 2018 where we would have to file but up until then it is one of those things that we continue to study.
Okay.
And then on energy efficiency if you could just elaborate a little bit more on the rejection of your plan and you mentioned you were thinking about perhaps re-filing it? Just anymore you could tell us about that? Yes sure.
This is Michael Moehn.
I think it was unfortunate that we thought we were addressing the Commission’s concerns.
We had a number of parties that had actually signed on supporting our plan but I was making down to a couple of things.
It was really the Commission desire to apply and utilize an after the fact evaluation in measurement and verification process that really prevented us from recording the revenues associated with those lost sales.
And there was also – they are very focused on reducing demand and our programs are really designed on reducing energy.
And so those are couple of things that we just – we have to go back and think about it and see if there is a solution forward.
These are important programs.
They really have worked well.
I think everybody has benefited from them shareholders customers.
And so we would love to see them come back and so we are trying to be very thoughtful about that process and think about what the next steps would be here in the very near future.
Okay.
But sales growth after 2016 I mean you mentioned that there is a lag effect in terms of you still expected to impact usage in 2016 but we should expect – what do you think the impact in 2017 if there is no new plan to replace it? How should we think about your projections for sales growth in 2017 and beyond? Paul this is back to Marty again.
Yes we did talk about in the call that we expected to have some bleed over into 2016.
And largely I think that will be a function of how 2015 programs wrap up.
So it’s premature to really talk about how much that maybe in ‘16.
But we wouldn’t expect meaningful impacts from sales from the current programs beyond 2016.
In fact never really even when we did envision additional energy efficiency programs going forward never really expected a meaningful effect on earnings when you look out to say like a 2018 time period.
So short answer to your question expect an impact from ‘16 expect that to be diminished as we get into ‘17 and again never expected really a meaningful impact overall in 2018.
One thing why you are on that energy efficiency Paul but I do want to clarify I am told that earlier in the call I talked about the performance incentive we would receive in ‘16 and I may have misspoken and said that related to the 2013 to 2018 period.
What I meant to say is it relates to the 2013 to 2015 program that we will be wrapping up later this year.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
One of the big drivers in the quarter you said was some rate design timing issues.
Kind of I guess what quarters did you borrow that from to make this quarter strong and will have a fourth quarter impact? I get your question.
This is Marty again.
So yes we did have a seasonal rate redesign that did affect the timing of margins and earnings recognitions for the year.
I mentioned that it was a $0.06 positive in the quarter.
However it’s mostly I will call it repayment from prior periods.
So on a year-to-date basis – on a year-to-date basis it’s a positive $0.02.
And then we expect that $0.02 to go away through the fourth quarter.
So that by the end of the year it’s flat with no net impact on net margins or earnings.
Thank you.
That helps.
And then what was weather like in the fourth quarter of ‘14 relative to normal? I think we have got that.
If you look on Slide 16 where we give our fourth quarter earnings guidance you will see down at the very bottom that we expected to be a slight negative impact on earnings in the fourth quarter by negative $0.01.
So we had about a $0.01 of positive weather last year and expect – you got it.
And then when you issue – it sounds like you are going to issue most of the long-term debt to pay down short-term at parent and less so in Illinois? Didn’t really comment on that.
What we said was that we plan to do long-term debt issuance at both the Ameren parent company level at this point as well as at Ameren Illinois here in the fourth quarter.
And that would get picked up in your next formulaic rate resetting? That is correct.
The cost of long-term debt whatever that maybe at Ameren Illinois would get picked up in the next regulatory filing.
And when is that filing? I think that filing would be next spring April or May of next spring.
There might be a little bit of lag there in higher debt cost? Well the way it works again formulaically is we will true up our revenues this year based upon our actual cost of service this year our year end rate base.
And so we will factor that into whatever true-up that we do reflect.
And then the filing we would make next April with the Commission would be to seek recovery of any differential or a refund to customers if that was appropriate.
But again the whole program is designed that there would be no lag.
The revenues we reflect in each year are a function of that year’s cost and that year’s rate base and cost of capital.
So there is really no lag in Illinois in terms of an earnings perspective.
So it will get picked up in the true up? Yes.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Gordon with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
The way that the energy efficiency program worked were you getting an incentive for performance that was on a one-year lag or is the – so you would get sort of ‘14 and ‘13 ‘15 and ‘14 etcetera or you are getting – is this a payment that you are getting for the cumulative impact of the program and so what happens sort of once every several years? Yes Greg.
This is Marty.
So the incentive that we expect to recognize in 2016 is really for that full period 2013 2014 and 2015.
Got it.
So if I think about the moving parts here we can talk more about this on Monday when we see you at EI.
There will be some offset to top line revenue from the incentive payment.
Is that – are those the only two moving parts to this or is there something else that gets into the mix in terms of understanding the net impact of the energy efficiency program or is it just those two pieces? Well as you look into 2016 that is correct.
Those would be the two moving pieces absent the new energy efficiency program put in place there would be the bleed over impact into 2016 if the prior year’s programs partially offset by the expectation of these incentive payments.
Okay.
As you look into 2016 those are the moving parts.
If you look back historically it’s been a function of not only the reduction in sales but the net shared benefits that we have received that once the 3-year program ends those go away.
So it’s really – as you look into 2016 you do have the two components.
Okay.
So what was this next year benefits component and was that on a calculated on sort of contemporaneous year basis or was that calculated on a lag? It was calculated on a – I guess a contemporaneous year basis not exactly sure what you mean by that but basically...
Meaning that – saying that the calculation of the benefit happened in the same year as the calculation of the savings.
Yes.
So it was actually calculated based upon the programs and what incentives were actually provided to the customers and the expected benefits that were to be received from the customers over as a result of those programs.
So I think it was contemporaneous.
What you do is you provide the customer an incentive.
There would be an expected benefit there in terms of energy use savings and then a percentage of that was reflected in that year in terms of net shared benefits.
And as we have shown in the slides it was basically a present value of the expected benefits to be received from the customer from those programs offered in that year.
Okay I get it.
So in ‘16 over ‘15 you won’t be getting – you won’t be – you won’t have any programs so you won’t be getting that revenue.
There will be a bleed over effect of the impact of the prior year’s programs but then you will get the bonus which happens every several years and then we move on from there? You got it.
Thank you.
I will see you in a few days.
Thanks Greg.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Quick one here you mentioned the positive impacts of lower O&amp;M next year how material was that how are we – how should we think about that relative to the slight year-over-year headwind due to the having a Callaway outage like which one is bigger or smaller do they offset etcetera? Michael obviously we are not giving guidance today.
We wanted to give you some of the overall moving pieces.
So I don’t think I really want to get into quantifying the overall magnitude.
We continue to work hard as we said on the call to leverage our continuous improvement efforts to be disciplined in our management of cost be disciplined in our management of our capital and we are continuing to do those things.
But I think premature at this point to really get into quantifying the pluses and minuses on 2016.
Where do you see is the biggest opportunities to realize cost savings? Michael Moehn will again jump in on that one.
Hi Michael it is Michael Moehn.
I think it’s – as we think about the program we have had conversations about this in the past that it really is across the entire business.
I mean I think that it’s anywhere from generation to the distribution side to the overhead as well.
And so we are probably 3 years 2.5 years into this 5-year program.
We are making great progress.
I mean it’s really based on two things; workforce productivity and deploying technology to drive efficiency.
There are obviously bigger areas based on where some of the spend is within energy delivery and some of the power plants but it is equally being deployed throughout the organization.
So Michael I would just add this is Warner that two things.
We talk a lot about Missouri but as Michael said it isn’t just in Missouri it’s across our entire organization which includes our business and corporate services.
But I will tell you we have a disciplined approach across all of our businesses both in Illinois as well as in transmission.
So this is something we work together as a team and something that we will continue to work out together as a team going forward.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Much appreciated.
Thank you Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Orrill with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Thank you.
How much have you reserved year-to-date for the transmission ROE and is that just at ATXI? Gregg this is Marty.
I think we will – definitely when we file our Q which we expect to do later today we will have that number.
I believe the number is about $36 million.
But check the Q for to be sure.
And really that’s been reflected both at ATXI as well as in Amren Illinois so it’s basically proportionate to the rate base that we have got in those two jurisdictions.
And that will be pretax? Legal entities I should say.
That’s pretax I assume? Yes.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Paz with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Can you quantify the potential investments associated with the NERC requirements ballpark? David I don’t think we can.
I mean I think that in terms of exactly what those are we have certainly given as you well know our planned rate base growth for 2019 that’s got transmission investments in there.
Some of those are for NERC projects especially those that are within Ameren Illinois.
We don’t call them out separately.
There are certainly NERC-related projects happening in Missouri as well.
And then also as we have mentioned that while we got there 6% rate base growth out through 2019 it doesn’t yet – hasn’t yet been updated to reflect any of the $500 million to $1 billion of incremental projects that we are evaluating.
As you know it’s a third a third a third between Illinois distribution electric distribution gas distribution and FERC regulated transmission portion of those monies too could go to towards NERC reliability projects.
But David I can’t really break out within the current disclosed program over the $500 million to $1 billion specifically how much is NERC-related.
Okay.
But so when you talk about the potential investments from those it’s really embedded in that $500 million to $1 billion or already other aspects of your plan? Right David.
Okay.
And then on your consolidated – looking out the consolidated balance sheet what is your target equity ratio and where did you end the quarter? Yes.
So if you actually look at the last page of our attachments to our press release you will see a stats page and we are right around 50-50 debt and equity at the end of the quarter.
And over time that’s approximately where we want to be from a debt to equity perspective.
Got it.
Okay.
And just on customer growth have you provided what you are seeing in terms of the level of growth particularly in Missouri not sales growth but customer growth? No we didn’t comment on that earlier.
In Missouri this year year-to-date we have seen some growth but it’s been modest.
I think the residential customer accounts up about 0.3% commercial customer account up about 0.7%.
The industrial customer account unfortunately is down about 0.8%.
But we have been seeing a little bit of growth in the residential and commercial areas in Missouri.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Very good.
Thank you.
Mr.
Fischer there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back to you for any final concluding remarks.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for one year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today’s release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or my associate Andrew Kirk.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today’s news release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Ameren Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
Thank you.
Mr.
Fischer you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
I am Doug Fischer Senior Director of Investor Relations for Ameren Corporation.
On the call with me today are Warner Baxter our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer and Marty Lyons our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as well as other members of the Ameren management team.
Before we begin let me cover a few administrative details.
This call is being broadcast live on the Internet and the webcast will be available for one year on our website at ameren.com.
Further this call contains time-sensitive data that is accurate only as of the date of today’s live broadcast and redistribution of this broadcast is prohibited.
To assist with our call this morning we have posted on our website a presentation that will be referenced by our speakers.
To access this please look in the Investors section of our website under Webcasts and Presentations and follow the appropriate link.
Turning to Page 2 of the presentation I need to inform you that comments made during this conference call may contain statements that are commonly referred to as forward-looking statements.
Such statements include those about future expectations beliefs plans strategies objectives events conditions and financial performance.
We caution you that various factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.
For additional information concerning these factors please read the forward-looking statements section in the news release we issued today and the forward-looking statements and Risk Factors sections in our filings with the SEC.
Warner will begin this call with an overview of 2015 results a business update and comments on our outlook for 2016 and beyond.
Marty will follow with more detailed comments on our financial results and outlook.
We will then open the call for questions.
Before Warner begins I would like to mention that all per share earnings amounts discussed during today's presentation including earnings guidance are presented on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted.
Now here is Warner who will start on Page 4 of the presentation.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Today we announced 2015 core earnings of $2.56 per share which represents an approximate 7% increase over 2014 results.
In addition we established a 2016 earnings per share guidance range of $2.40 to $2.60 which includes an expected temporary and negative impact reduce sales to Noranda Aluminum and we're pleased to announce updated rate based growth plans of approximately 6.5% compounded annually from 2015 through 2020 which is expected to drive earnings per share growth of 5% to 8% compounded annually from 2016 to 2020 excluding the impact of Noranda on 2016 earnings.
We'll discuss these earnings expectations further in a moment.
Moving back to 2015 results the strong 2015 earnings growth compared to 2014 reflected increased FERC-regulated transmission in Illinois Electric delivery earnings resulting from infrastructure investment made under constructive regulatory frameworks in order to better serve our customers.
The earnings comparison also benefited from the absence in 2015 of a nuclear refueling and maintenance outage at the Callaway Energy center and disciplined cost management.
These positive variances were partially offset by lower retail electric and natural gas sales volumes driven by very mild fourth quarter 2015 winter temperatures.
The earnings comparison was also unfavorably affected by lower allowed returns on equity and higher depreciation and amortization expenses.
Marty will discuss these and other 2015 earnings drivers in a few minutes.
Turning to Page 5 I would like to share my perspectives on our 2015 performance.
Overall I believe we delivered strong results for our shareholders and customers in 2015 despite facing several challenges.
These results were driven by successfully executing our strategic plan starting with our focus on prudently investing in and operating our rate-regulated utilities we continue to allocate significant amounts of capital to those businesses that are supported by constructive regulatory frameworks in order to enhance good reliability and allow customers to better manage their energy usage.
In fact we invested $1.9 billion in utility infrastructure last year with almost 70% or $1.3 billion with this going to projects in our FERC-regulated electric transmission and Illinois electric and natural gas delivery businesses.
A significant portion of these investments was made in the Illinois Rivers project where construction is proceeding according to plan with work on the nine line segments and 10 substations well underway and some portions already complete.
The strategic allocation of capital and effective execution of these projects coupled with disciplined cost management contributed to a higher consolidated earned return on equity and this was accomplished while maintaining our financial strength and flexibility.
Moving down the page we also achieved constructive December rate orders in both our Illinois electric delivery update and natural gas delivery rate cases.
Further we should not forget that earlier in 2015 we were successful in our efficacy efforts to extend Illinois' modernized electric regulatory framework through the end of 2019.
That extension had strong bipartisan support because Illinois' regulatory framework is encouraging greater investment and infrastructure which in turn is delivering better reliability and more efficient modernized grid and significant job creation at reasonable cost to customers.
Since 2011 even with the substantial infrastructure we've made Illinois' residential electric delivery prices have increased at a compound annual rate which is less than 2.5%.
Simply put the Illinois framework is a win-win for customers the State of Illinois and shareholders.
Overall efforts within each of our regulatory jurisdictions to create and capitalize on investments for the benefit of customers and shareholders are showing positive results.
In 2015 we improved distribution system reliability and continued our solid base load energy center performance and our strong operating performance combined with the fact that our rates remained well below regional and national averages contributed to improve customer satisfaction.
The bottom line is that we're working every day to provide safer and more reliable service to our customers and we achieved this in 2015 despite challenging newer weather conditions including unprecedented flooding and an ice storm.
While I am pleased with the results we delivered in 2015 I am particularly pleased that our team's successful execution of our strategy over the last three calendar years has delivered a peer leading total shareholder return of approximately 60%.
As a result and looking ahead we're going to stay the course and remain focused on executing this strategy.
Turning now to Page 6 and our 2016 earnings outlook we anticipate 2016 earnings to be in the range of $2.40 to $2.60 per share.
The primary drivers of the variance between 2015 actual results and our 2016 guidance range are noted on this page and Marty will cover these in more detail a bit later.
I want to highlight that our 2016 guidance includes an estimated $0.13 per share reduction and net earnings anticipated to result from significantly lower electric sales to Noranda.
I want to spend a few movements on this unique and temporary headwind that we face.
Moving to Page 7 here we summarize keep facts about Noranda’s current situation and while we fully expect its impact on Ameren Missouri to be temporary.
First you should know that Noranda operates in aluminum smelter in Southeast Missouri and they are our largest customer.
On January 8 2016 Noranda announced that production has been idled at two of the three top lines and its smelter operation following an electric supply circuit failure.
So circuit failure did not occur on assets owned by Ameren Missouri.
Further on February 8 2016 Noranda and its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for restructuring under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
bankruptcy code due to operating issues as well as very challenging global aluminum market conditions.
At that time Noranda stated that it expected to curtail all remaining operations at its smelter this March.
Although it would remain the flexibility to restart operations should condition allow.
While we're working closely with Noranda and other key stakeholders on legislation to provide Noranda with long-term globally competitive electric rates we can't predict at this time whether it will restart its smelter operations.
As a result our 2016 earnings guidance assumes Noranda will not restart any of its top lines this year.
We can and will take actions to mitigate the financial impacts of Noranda's outages on Ameren Missouri.
Those actions may include seeking recovery of lost revenues in the context in electric rate case or filing with the Missouri Public Service Commission for an accounting authority order.
At a minimum in Ameren Missouri’s next electric rate case we expect the Missouri Commission would accurately reflect Noranda’s ongoing sales volumes thereby removing the related drag on our perspective earnings.
Pending conclusion of Missouri legislative process we expect to file a Missouri electric rate case this year in order to earn a fair return on investments made to serve customers.
As a result we fully expect the earnings impact from Noranda’s lower sales to be temporary.
Turning to Page 8 here we know key areas of focus for 2016 as we continue to execute our strategy.
Our FERC regulated transmission businesses will advance to regional multi-value and local reliability projects included in our capital investment plan.
In addition we will continue to work to obtain constructive outcomes in the complaint cases pending that to FERC to seek to reduce the base allowed ROE from MISO transmission owners including Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
In late December a FERC administrative law judge issued a proposed order in the initial complaint case recommending a 10.32% base allowed ROE.
We expect the final FERC order in that case in the fourth quarter of this year.
Moving to Illinois Electric and Natural gas delivery Ameren Illinois will continue to invest in infrastructure improvements to upgrade systems to enhance reliability and safety including those under its modernization action plan.
This plan includes the installation of approximately 780 000 advanced electric meters and the upgrading of approximately 470 000 gas meters by the end of 2019 including approximately 148 000 electric and 103 000 gas meters this year.
Turning now to Missouri where modernizing the regulatory framework remains a high priority.
We've been actively engaged in discussions with customers legislators state officials and other stakeholders including other Missouri investor-owned utilities to build support for legislation that would modernize Missouri’s existing regulatory framework.
An improved framework will allow us to increase investment to replace and upgrade aging Missouri energy infrastructure to enhance reliability and customer service and to retain and create jobs.
Earlier this month Senate Bill 1028 and identical hospital 2495 were filed with the intention of accomplishing these objectives.
I will touch more on this legislation in a moment.
Finally in another regulatory matter last week the Missouri Public Service Commission approved a new Ameren Missouri Energy Efficiency plan.
This plan will begin March 1 this year and continue through February 2019 and follows on the heels of our very successful three-year energy efficiency plan completed at the end of last year.
We believe the new plan which reflect an agreement between Ameren Missouri and other key stakeholders appropriately balances customer and shareholder interest.
They composite this by providing for timely recovery of both energy efficiency program costs and revenue losses resulting from these programs.
In addition the plan provides Ameren Missouri an opportunity to earn performance incentive revenues which would be $27 million if 100% of the energy efficiency goals are achieved during the three-year period with any such revenues recognized after the plan include.
Regarding Ameren wide initiatives for 2016 as you know the U.S.
Supreme Court recently stated the EPAs Clean Power plan.
This state blocks the plan's implementation until its legality is determined by the courts.
A three judge panel of the court of appeals for the D.C.
Circuit is scheduled to hear legal challenges to the Clean Power plan beginning on June 2 of this year.
We agree with the Supreme Court’s decision.
It is in the best interest of our customers and the communities we serve because we believe it is important to know whether this rule will withstand legal challenges before steps are taken to implement it.
Of course we can’t predict the outcome of these legal challenges we remain committed to transitioning to a cleaner more fuel diverse generation portfolio in a responsible fashion.
As a result we will continue to advocate for responsible energy policies related to the EPAs clean power plan while working with key stakeholders to address important issues associated with the Missouri and Illinois state implementation plans toward the clean power plan ultimately be upheld.
Finally we will continue our ongoing efforts to relentlessly improve operating performance including our focus on safety disciplined cost management and strategic capital allocation with a goal of earning at or close to allowed ROEs.
Turning to Page 9 I would now like to discuss the recently introduced Missouri Legislation Senate Bill 1028 and Identical Hospital 2495 would modernize Missouri’s regulatory framework to support and encourage investment in aging energy infrastructure for all Missouri investor-owned electric utilities for the benefit of their customers.
The proposed legislation calls for timely recovery of actual prudently incurred cost of providing service to customers.
It would also provide long-term globally competitive electric rates for energy intensive customers like Noranda.
Further this legislation will include several customer benefits including earning caps and rate stabilization mechanism as well as provide incentives for utilities to achieve certain performance standard.
Ultimately passes of this legislation would be an important step forward for the State of Missouri.
This legislation would spur investment in aging infrastructure support incremental investments in physical and cyber security it's important environmental upgrades in cleaner generation sources as well as position Missouri’s grip for growth in the future at a time when interest rates remain very low.
All this would be done while providing more stable and predictable rates for customers and other appropriate safeguards under the strong oversight of the Missouri Public Service Commission.
Importantly this legislation will create and retain jobs throughout the State of Missouri.
It is a win-win for all stakeholders.
In upcoming weeks we expect that additional language will be added to the bills as consensus building is advanced and the bills move through the legislative process.
As a result it would be premature to go through the specific details of the legislation at this time.
We're pleased that both Senate and house leadership are supporting this legislation including key leaders of the Senate Commerce Committee and the House Utilities Committee.
Of course and as you know the legislative process is complex and lengthy.
We continue to work with key stakeholders to advance this legislation in a thoughtful yet timely fashion.
The legislation session ends on May 13 2016.
Moving onto Page 10 and our long-term total return outlook.
In February of last year we outlined our plan to grow rate base at a 6% compound annual rate for the 2014 through 2019 period.
Today we're rolling forward our multiyear plan and I am very pleased to say that we expect to grow rate base at an even higher approximately 6.5% compounded annual rate over the new 2015 through 2020 period.
I want to be clear that our new rate base growth outlook incorporates the effects of the recent five-year extension of bonus tax depreciation.
You'll recall that late last year we noted that we were evaluating brining forward into our new five-year investment plan certain reliability projects which total between $500 million and $1 billion.
Our team ultimately brought forward in excess of $1.5 billion of additional Ameren Illinois energy delivery and transmission reliability projects that have now been incorporated into our updated five-year plan.
As you can see on the right side of this page we're allocating significant and growing amounts of capital to our FERC-regulated transmission businesses and Illinois delivery utilities in line with our strategy.
Our list of transmission projects is projected to increase FERC-regulated rate base by approximately 20% compounded annually over the 2016 through 2020 period.
In addition our Ameren Illinois investments are expected to result in projected natural gas and electric delivery compound annual rate base growth of 11% and 6% respectively over this period.
And finally our Missouri rate base is expected to grow at a slower 2% compound annual rate.
This level of Missouri growth incorporates increased mandatory environmental expenditures associated with co-combustion residuals.
Our updated five-year capital expenditure plan illustrates Ameren's strong pipeline of investment opportunities to address aging infrastructure and reliability needs that we've discussed with you previously.
And projects we've brought forward enable us to take advantage of the cash flow stimulus benefits and bonus tax depreciation for the benefit of customers and to more than offset the effects of bonus depreciation and projected rate base.
The utility infrastructure investments and projected rate base growth I just discussed will not only bring superior value to our customers but also to our shareholders.
We expect earnings per share to grow at a 5% to 8% compound annual rate from 2016 through 2020 excluding the expected temporary net negative effect on 2016 earnings of $0.13 per share as a result of lower sales to Noranda and we expect this growth will compare well with our regulated utility peers.
Further we continue to expect compound annual earnings rate growth for the 2013 through 2018 period within the range of 7% to 10%.
Looking ahead we will also remain focused on our dividend because we recognize its importance to our shareholders.
The Board of Director’s decision to increase the dividend by 3.7% last October for the second consecutive year reflected its competence in the outlook for our regulated businesses and our ability to achieve our long-term earnings and rate based growth plan.
We continue to expect our dividend payout ratio to range between 55% and 70% of annual earnings.
Of course future dividend increases will be based on consideration of among other things earnings growth cash flows and economic and other business conditions.
To summarize we're successfully executing our strategy across the Board and I’m firmly convinced that continuing to do so will deliver superior value to our customers shareholders and the communities we serve.
Again thank you all for joining us on today’s call and I’ll turn the call over Marty.
Marty? Thank you Warner.
Good morning everybody.
Turning now to Page 12 of our presentation today we reported 2015 core earnings of $2.56 per share compared to earnings of $2.40 per share for the prior year.
We're pleased to achieve core 2015 earnings that were just above the midpoint of our initial 2015 guidance we provided early last year despite some significant headwinds in the fourth quarter including extremely mild temperatures and the extension of bonus tax depreciation.
As you can see there were no differences between GAAP and core results for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Moving then to Page 13 here we highlight factors that drove the $0.16 per share increase in 2015 results.
Key factors included increased investments in electric transmission and delivery infrastructure in our Illinois and ATXI businesses which increased earnings by $0.20 per share compared to 2014.
In addition the earning comparison benefited from the absence in 2015 of a nuclear refueling and maintenance outage at the Callaway Energy Center which cost $0.09 in 2014.
These refueling outages are scheduled to occur every 18 months.
Further earlier last year the Illinois Commerce Commission approved recovery of certain Ameren Illinois cumulative power usage cost and this had a positive effect on the earnings comparison.
Earnings also benefitted from a reduction in parent company interest charges reflecting the May 2014 maturity of $425 million of 8.875% senior notes that were replaced with lower cost debt.
Finally as Warner mentioned we continue our ongoing efforts so relentlessly improve operating performance including managing cost in a disciplined manner.
Reflecting this 2015 other operations and maintenance expenses declined compared to the prior year for our Missouri utility.
Factors having an unfavorable effect on the earnings comparisons included lower retail electric and natural gas sales driven by mild weather.
Weather effects decreased full year 2015 earnings by an estimated $0.06 per share compared to 2014.
The unfavorable earnings impact of very mild fourth quarter 2015 temperatures is estimated to have been $0.08 versus normal which more than offset an estimated $0.05 per share favorable impact of weather experienced over the first nine months of 2015.
Heating degree days were down about 30% versus normal fourth quarter levels.
We estimate that weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to Illinois residential and commercial customers were flat year-over-year while such sales to Missouri residential and commercial customers decreased about 1%.
The decrease in Missouri sales was driven by the residential sector.
It is important to note that Ameren Missouri's 2013 through 2015 energy efficiency plan compensated for the negative earnings effects of reduced electric sales volumes resulting from energy efficiency programs.
Excluding the effects of these programs we estimate that sales to Missouri residential and commercial customers would have increased by about one quarter of one percent.
For 2015 kilowatt hour sales to Illinois' and Missouri's industrial customers decreased approximately 3% and 4% respectively primarily reflecting lower sales to large low margin Illinois customers and agriculture and steel making as well as lower sales in Missouri to Noranda.
Moving back to the discussion of 2015 results the year-over-year earnings comparison was unfavorably affected by lower capitalized Ameren Missouri financing cost of $0.06 per share due to a larger balance of infrastructure projects in process and ultimately placed in service during 2014.
The earnings comparison was also unfavorably affected by lower recognized allowed ROEs which reduced the contributions from electric transmission and delivery investments at ATXI and Ameren Illinois by a total of $0.05 per share.
Since 2014 our transmission earnings have been reduced by a reserve to reflect the potential for a lower allowed ROE as a result of the pending complaint cases at the FERC.
In addition 2015 Illinois electric delivery earnings incorporated an 8.64% allowed ROE compared to 9.14% in 2014.
This decline was due to a decrease in the annual average 30-year treasury rate from 3.34% to 2.84%.
The 2015 earnings comparison was also unfavorably affected by increased depreciation and amortization expenses of $0.05 per share and finally by the absence of a 2014 benefit resulting from a regulatory decision authorizing Ameren Illinois to recover previously disallowed debt redemption cost.
Turning to Page 14 of our presentation next I would like to discuss details of our 2016 earnings guidance.
As Warner stated we expect 2016 diluted earnings per share to be in a range of $2.40 to $2.60 including an estimated $0.13 reduction related to a significantly lower expected sales volumes to Noranda compared to 2015.
This estimated earnings impact is net of expected revenues from our system sales that Ameren Missouri makes as a result of reduced sales to Noranda.
Revenues from these off system sales are allowed to be retained under a provision in the fuel adjustment cost.
This estimate incorporate such off system sales in and around the clock in the hub power price net of an estimated basis differential reflecting the location of our energy centers.
Further we assume that the two of Noranda's three smelter pot lines that were idled in early January remain out of service.
That the third top line is idled in March as Noranda has indicated and that all three of these production lines remain idled for the balance of the year.
Finally as February 8 of this year the date Noranda filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy Noranda had prepaid an amount to Ameren Missouri that exceeded its utility service usage.
Ameren Missouri expects to be paid in full for utility services provided after February 8 2016.
With this overview I will now walk through key 2016 earnings drivers and assumptions for each of our businesses.
Like 2015 results expected 2016 earnings reflect increases in FERC regulated transmission and Illinois electric delivery rate base which are noted on this page.
Our projected 2016 electric transmission earnings continue to include a reserve for a potential reduction in the current MISO based allowed ROE but also incorporate the 50 basis point adder FERC is authorized because of our MISO membership.
Further expected Illinois electric delivery earnings incorporate a formula based ROE of 9% using a forecast of 3.2% for the 2016 average 30-year treasury bond yield.
For Ameren Illinois gas delivery service earnings will reflect new rates that incorporate the higher rate based levels and increased cost included in the 2016 future test year utilized to determine those rates as well as the higher return on equity authorized in the December rate order.
Shifting to a comparatively unfavorable item Ameren Illinois electric delivery earnings will reflect the absence in 2016 of $0.04 per share related to the ICC order approving the recovery of power usage cost that I mentioned earlier.
Before we move on I do want to highlight that we recognized that investors are interested in understanding the sensitivity of our outlook to changes in our allowed ROEs given our formula rate making and pending MISO complaint case.
Therefore on this page we've provided estimates of 2016 earnings per share sensitivities associated with hypothetical changes and allowed ROEs.
Turning now to Page 15 and 2016 key drivers and assumptions related to Ameren Missouri earnings.
The year-over-year earnings comparison is expected to be unfavorably affected by the already discussed estimated net earnings decline related to lower sales to Noranda.
Further as we noted on our earnings call in November we expect Ameren Missouri’s highly successful 2013 to 2015 energy efficiency program to reduce sales levels in 2016 negatively impacting earnings compared to last year.
A portion of this impact will be offset by our performance incentive subject to commission approval.
I want to note that Ameren Missouri’s new plan which Warner mentioned and which becomes effective March 1 will not mitigate the unfavorable effects on 2016 earnings resulting from the prior energy efficiency plan.
There are certain key differences between the Missouri Energy efficiency program that ended in 2015 and the new program that begins next month.
The 2013 through 2015 program compensated Ameren Missouri in each of those years for the mediate and longer term financial impacts of energy efficiency program initiated in each of those years which is leading to 2016 financial headwinds.
For 2016 through 2019 program is again designed to fully compensate Ameren Missouri for the financial impacts of the energy efficiency programs; however excluding the potential for performance incentive payment in 2019 in any given year the impacts are expected to be earnings neutral.
The earnings comparison is also expected to be unfavorably affected by Ameren Missouri regulatory lag reflecting depreciation transmission and property tax expenses that are higher than the levels collected in rates.
Finally a Callaway nuclear refilling and maintenance outage scheduled for the spring of 2016 is expected to reduce earnings by $0.09 per share.
Shifting now to factors that are expected to favorably affect Ameren Missouri’s earnings comparison.
We estimate that other operations and maintenance expenses not subject to riders or regulatory tracking mechanisms will decline.
This expectation is the result of our lean continuous improvement and disciplined cost management efforts.
Overall our goal remains to earn at or close to our allowed ROEs in all of our jurisdictions but this goal continues to be challenging assuming normalized annual level of Callaway refueling outage expenses but exclude the net earnings impact of reduced sales to Noranda we expect Ameren Missouri to earn 50 basis points of its 9.53% allowed ROE.
Before I leave the discussion of 2016 expectations for our Illinois and Missouri utilities I would like to discuss our sales outlook.
As noted on Pages 14 and 15 our return to normal temperatures in 2016 would benefit Ameren's earnings by a combined estimated $0.03 per share compared to 2015.
We expect combined Illinois and Missouri weather normalized kilowatt hour sales to residential and commercial customers to be roughly flat compared to last year partially reflecting the previously mentioned effects of our Missouri energy efficiency programs that ended in 2015 the new 2016 energy efficiency programs as well as energy efficiency programs in Illinois.
Turning to industrial customers combined Illinois and Missouri kilowatt hour sales to this group are expected to be flat to up slightly compared to last year excluding the anticipated decline in sales to Noranda.
Moving now to parent and other cost during the fourth quarter of last year we issued long-term debt at the Ameren parent company to repay short term borrowings.
While this new long-term debt was issued at a low cost it will have an unfavorable effect on the 2016 earnings comparison.
Further on an Ameren consolidated basis we forecast our 2016 effective income tax rate will be about 38% comparable to the 2015 core effective tax rate.
And finally this earnings guidance reflects no change in average basic common shares outstanding from the prior year level.
Moving then to Page 16 for 2016 we anticipate negative free cash flow of approximately $790 million.
On the right side of this page we provide a breakdown of approximately $2.2 billion of planned 2016 capital expenditures with about two thirds in jurisdictions with constructive regulatory frameworks.
We expect to fund this year's negative free cash flow and debt maturities with a mix of cash on hand in short and long-term borrowings.
Turing to Page 17 of the presentation here we provide an overview of our $11.1 billion of planned capital expenditures for the 2016 through 2020 period.
First let me provide further details on the type of projects included on our strong five-year growth plan and particular focus to those jurisdictions with modern constructive regulatory frameworks.
The increased Illinois electric delivery investments will address aging infrastructure and support system capacity additions and reliability improvements.
These include substation breaker and transform replacements underground residential distribution replacements line builds and re-conductor projects as well as capacity additions and line hardening.
Planned investment increases in Illinois natural gas delivery target safety and reliability improvements and consist of gas transmission coupled steel system and gas storage filled compressive replacements as well as regulator station rebuilds and upgrades and other system rebuilds where conditions warrant.
And to add Ameren Illinois local transmission investments will enhance reliability and includes age and condition based replacements of structures shield wire conductors transformers breakers switches and other equipment.
Of course in Missouri we will continue to make prudent investments to provide safe and adequate service.
The expected funding sources for these infrastructure investments are listed on this page.
In particular we expect to benefit from approximately $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion of income tax deferrals and tax assets over the five years ending in 2020.
The tax deferrals are driven primarily by our planned capital expenditures in the recent five year extension of bonus tax depreciation which added about $930 million to this expectation.
The tax assets totaled approximately $630 million at year end 2015 with approximately $430 million of these at the parent company which are not currently earning a return and we expect these tax assets to be realized into 2021.
Given our expected funding sources we do not expect to issue additional equity through this planning period.
We remain committed to funding our capital expenditures in a manner that maintains solid credit metrics and this is reflected in our capitalization target of around 50% equity.
Now turning to Page 18 I will summarize we delivered strong 7% core earnings per share growth in 2015 and we are successfully executing our strategy.
We also expect earnings per share to grow at a strong 5% to 8% compound annual rate from 2016 through 2020 excluding the expected temporary net effect of lower sales to Noranda this year.
This earnings growth is driven by approximately 6.5% compound annual rate base growth over the 2015 through 2020 period based on a mix of needed transmission distribution generation investments across multiple regulatory jurisdiction for the benefit of our customers.
When you combine our superior earnings growth outlook with Ameren’s dividend which now provides investors with an above peer group average yield of approximately 3.7% we believe our common stock represents a very attractive total return potential for investors.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We now invite your questions.
Thank you (Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Julien Dumoulin-Smith from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Julien.
Hello Julien.
So let's just walk first through here are some of the assumptions baked into your new long-term CAGR if you will can you clarify the sales growth embedded in that and specifically here what I'm getting at is the latest energy efficiency program.
Is that factored in and to what extent does that impact your assumptions in the program? And then separately just you were clear about this no cash taxes through that new period as well correct? And then perhaps a third point if you will what are the assumptions baked in in terms of the treasuries in that 5% to 8% period or 5% to 8% CAGR? Sure Julian all good and reasonable questions.
So let’s start with the growth rates.
As we announced today 5% to 8% expected compound annual EPS growth from 2016 through 2020.
Obviously the key there the big drivers rate base grow and as we announced today we’ve got 6.5% compound annual rate base growth planned for the period 2015 to 2020 which obviously is smack in the middle of that earnings per share growth range as well and that rate base growth is the foundation.
And we’d say that -- I’d say that that growth rate of 5% to 8% incorporates a range of outcomes in terms of treasury rate assumptions.
As you know that over time in our planning we look at consensus estimates for growth in the third year treasury rate which today I think economists are expecting it to raise about 200 basis points between now and 2020.
But when we look at that growth rate range it accommodates a number of alternatives both that increase in treasury rates over time as well as even a low interest rate environment like the one we’re in persisting over this period of time.
So it incorporates a range of outcomes in terms of treasury rate assumptions ROEs regulatory decisions changes in economic conditions etcetera.
In terms of sales growth our embedded in our forecast over this time is about flattish sales growth through this period but for the energy efficiency programs we would expect to see modest growth but as a result of the programs that we’ve got in place we do expect it to be pretty flattish over this period of time.
Got it and then… Sorry go for it.
I was to say did I miss any of your questions? Cash taxes just to be clear.
Yeah just to be clear with bonus depreciation which is I mentioned on the call had an impact of more than $900 million we now don’t expect to be a federal cash tax payer until 2021.
That’s what I thought excellent.
And then just a brief follow-up if you will what is the expected impact on the balance of your customers given what’s going on with Noranda? How significant of customer inflation are we talking about here or potentially? Yeah I think it's premature to really -- and it' pretty premature as I'd say get into that.
We'll -- as we mentioned on the call we're going to obviously watch the Noranda situation closely.
Pending conclusion of the legislative process expect to file a rate case and I think at that point we'll see what that impact might look like.
Great.
Last details since you mentioned it what's the test year on that rate case you're thinking? Really premature to get into that to Julian.
Look I think that what's happened with Nuranda and their outage is very recent certainly unfortunate.
We're watching the situation closely and making plans for the potential to file in that rate case but it would be premature to get into what the test year would be at this time.
Clearly as we do think about that case we're thinking about the situation with Nuranda also thinking about capital expenditures rate base that we have planned for later this year as well as other cost drivers of our business and so all of this things are going into our thoughts about the timing of that rate case and as you mentioned things like test year considerations.
I apologize one slight clarification you said 200 Bps over the period.
That's 200 Bps over the 3.21 you embedded in your current year.
No I'm saying that I did.
I think where economists are today Julien out in 2020 is around that 4.8%.
So it's about not 200 basis points above where at the current 30-year treasury really sits today.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning Paul.
On the long-term growth rate if you could -- how does the Missouri legislation -- proposed legislation get into this? Are we talking -- and the 2% rate base growth does that include -- how does I guess let me ask you this what's included in terms of the legislative potential legislative outcome in the growth rate and that's what I'm asking.
Yeah sure let me Paul let me talk about that.
Consistent with the guidance that we've provided in the past and as you look at this new guidance it is not dependent upon any change in the regulatory framework in Missouri.
We've had about 2% rate base growth guidance in our prior guidance.
We've got about 2% rate based growth incorporated into this guidance and as we mentioned on the call have incorporated into the capital expenditures in Missouri some incremental cost of compliance with environmental regulations.
But it doesn't -- the growth rate that we've got here both in terms of the rate base as well as the earnings growth doesn't -- isn't dependent upon some change in the Missouri regulatory framework.
Now before you guys have indicated and I think you suggested us today that your rate base growth has been stronger in Illinois because of the regulatory treatment which it seems the Missouri legislation might give you something similar to that.
So is there upside potentially within this growth rate or would it be within the growth rate if you got the Missouri thing if you follow me.
In other words how much rate base growth in Missouri might it increase if you were to get the legislation you're proposing.
Yeah sure it's reasonable question I think it's certainly premature to speculate whether legislation would -- how much that might impact capital expenditure plans.
I would go back to -- we feel very good about 5% to 8% earnings per share growth rate and 6.5% rate based growth rate.
We think those are very solid growth rates compared to our peers and to your point to the extent that we do have a change in the Missouri regulatory framework I think we have to step back and assess whether to the extent that we did have additional capital expenditures would they be incremental to this growth rate.
Or would we modify the capital expenditures plans we have and still delivered I'd say within this 5% to 8% earnings growth range.
So look if that does take place if there is a change in the framework we'll step back and we'll update as appropriate.
Thanks and Paul this is Warner.
I would just imply I agree of course with everything that Martin just said but no doubt that the one thing that we've been very clear about that if we have the ability to enhance this framework to support investment in Missouri we will do so.
And how that fits into the context of the big picture plan as Marty said that's something we'll step back and access.
But we would expect to put more money to work in Missouri and we think there is significant opportunities to do this to address aging infrastructure to address things like reforms renewable energy to address things like cyber and physical security go down the line including some of the advance technologies that we're putting to work over in Illinois.
These were things that Missouri needs and things that we would clearly be looking at.
And just to circle back on Julian's question with respect to the interest rate the treasury it looks like right now that we're talking about 30-year around 2.6 and I guess you guys have a higher number for this year and it doesn't look like it's that big a change in EPS.
But just in general how should we think about your projections versus what we're seeing right now.
You said these economists are projecting this but just you guys give a little bit more of a flavor for that.
Yeah.
Sure Paul.
So in the slides to your point we give a sensitivity around Illinois ROEs that have 50 basis point change in the ROEs is about 2.5% for our Illinois electric distribution business.
So to your point treasury rates today are lower than what we have embedded in the guidance.
But we've had that situation before as well and certainly we have been able to deliver on our overall earnings guidance.
And so that $0.025 as I mentioned for 50 basis points $0.025 variants is not a large number but we continue to monitor it and we'll continue to manage our business around it.
In terms of the longer term as I was saying the 5% to 8% earnings growth target but the foundation Paul is the 6.5% rate base growth and that 6.5% rate base growth as I said is smacked out in the middle of that range and that really anchors that growth.
And as I said then there is a range of treasury rates around it.
Certainly not meaning to imply that it was -- we were dependent upon a 200 basis point rise in treasury to hit the midpoint of that guidance.
The upper end to that range the lower end to that range incorporates higher treasury rates or perhaps current or lower treasury rates.
So there is a range of treasury rate assumptions that go into that 5% to 8%.
The midpoint again is anchored on that rate base growth at 6.5%.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sure Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Byrd from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Stephen.
Good morning Stephen.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered just had one on energy efficiency.
Marty I think you laid out I believe that effectively in the planet it should be a relatively neutral impact.
There is some negative in terms of impacts to demand but you also have an incentive.
How do you think about the mechanics of that going forward relative to historical experience with it? In other words just do you see is it fairly balanced in terms of the upside versus the downside or for example is there a potential for upside given the $27 million potential incentive? How should we think about that as you bake that into your plan? Sure Steve I appreciate that.
Yes I would say the $27 million is there to be an incentive for us.
So it's our goal as we go into these energy efficiency programs to really have these perform for our customers and we are incentivized to achieve the goals and we look forward to hitting the marks to be able to earn that $27 million performance incentive.
Between now and then the way the new program is designed is to really be earnings neutral that as we get these programs underway here in 2016 lead to the extent that there are negative impacts on our sales that those will be offset by revenues provided under the program.
We wanted to be clear on the call and hopefully were that in 2016 2017 2018 those programs shouldn't produce either in that positive or negative result.
It should be earnings neutral over that period.
But like I said we're incentivized to provide good programs to our customers valuable programs to our customers and if we're successful in doing that which we expect to be would put ourselves in a position to earn that performance incentive in 2019.
Understood and already that performance incentive will be one-time payment in 2019 is that correct? Yes that's right.
Got it.
Okay that's all I had.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Ridzon from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
…and would you file for an accounting order around Nuranda and when could do you possibly click revenues or book revenues? Paul this is Marty.
I think the first part of your question may have gotten cut off.
Can you repeat the full question? Sure.
When do you expect to file for an accounting order in Missouri related to Nuranda and when do you think you could start offsetting the losses? Yeah Paul this is Marty again.
Yeah in the call I think what we have clarified was that there are couple of different things one has to do with the temporary nature of this impact.
And that ultimately it's a temporary impact because as we file a rate case and we incorporate the reduction the sales to Nuranda then that impact would go away in terms of the overall revenue requirements and our revenues will be formulate in the context for rate case.
What an accounting authority order would potentially allow you to do would be able to defer the impact of these lost revenues between now and when rates are reset for potential recovery of those costs.
And we could either do that as an accounting authority order or also as we pointed out in the call you could make that request as part of a rate case.
So there is a couple of alternatives there.
I think one key is that it's not -- there is really no time limit on that meaning if you were to file an AAO it wouldn’t just be for prospective impacts.
You could also request it as part of that to recover the lost revenues from the date the incident first happened forward in time.
So there is not really a clock ticking on that.
So we'll consider those options as I said before certainly very unfortunate what's happened with Nuranda here in January with the outage.
They still have one part running.
They've announced that they do expect to shut that down.
But I think we'll let that play out and see ultimately what does happen and then consider these regulatory options that I just laid out.
So there is $0.13 of potential upside to guidance if you're able to get some sort of relief? It's theoretically yes.
I think the important thing to know when we think about this being temporary is that we do expect to pending completion of this legislative process.
We would expect to file a rate case and ultimately that's what we'll stem these financial impacts.
But yes theoretically through the AAO or through the request as part of the rate case these lost revenues could be recouped.
However you should know that that may not occur to the extent it does occur it may not occur in 2016.
But again to the extent you requested this as part of the rate case would be more likely that to the extent that those -- collection of those revenues was granted by the commission that that earnings impact will be reflected in 2017.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys congrats on a good year.
Just looking through the Bill in Missouri and I only looked at the Senate once so if the house one is very different my apologies.
There is not a lot of detail to the bill and so a lot of times bills will -- a placeholder will get published or put out and the bill will get flashed out over time.
Can you talked to us about like what some of the incremental detail you would be seeking to add to that bill would be.
Good morning Michael this is Warner and I'll start and then Michael Moehn and certainly jump in.
I think a couple of things to think about.
Number one that the sponsors of the bill they thoughtfully consider whether to immediately file a comprehensive bill or as you say -- I would say an outline of key objectives.
I think that the objective there is to file the outline to give stakeholders the ability to provide input into certain approaches it might be utilizing the bill and so that's really where things stand today.
I think the outline is pretty clear in some of the areas that will be covered but the specifics are still being worked out and so I think as you saw we talked about we're clearly going to be focused on issues around addressing regulatory lag especially those associated with investment that's outlined in the bill.
Certainly important consumer benefits whether it be in the forms of earnings caps rate caps or even performance standards similar to types of things we've seen successfully employed in Illinois.
And I think importantly what's embedded in all of that is strong oversight will continue by Missouri Public Service Commission.
So it will be premature to go into details.
I think those kind of specifics that are reflected in the bill that stands today I would expect to see in the bill when it's found in its entirety and so when that is out there will be a greater ability to kind of go in more detail with you and certainly the rest of the investors.
Got it and one other thing.
When you're thinking about the potential and Warner you mentioned there are lots of opportunities for investment when you think about the potential is it kind of on the margin or incremental or is it significant and structural? When I say significant and structural I think what you've done in Illinois since the 2011 law passed has been a structural change in the investment opportunity in a single state given a change in regulation.
Do you view Missouri as being a potential another Illinois or just having an opportunity for a marginal uptake in investment? Michael this is Warner.
Look I think at the end of the day and we've had these conversations I think there are several alternatives that are being considered out there.
We've been clear in our conversations that we've seen the Illinois framework and how well it's working and how it's delivering for customers and the State of Illinois that's part of the conversation.
And of course there are other pieces of the conversation that are being discussed amongst stakeholders as well but no doubt we see the significant structural changes happen in Illinois and we see the significant benefits that's being delivered.
Those kind of conversations are clearly being had.
Got it.
Thanks Warner.
Much appreciated.
You're welcome Michael.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Glenn Pruitt from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
My question is regarding your transmission investment.
So of the $3 billion that you have planned through 2020 I see that there is about $690 million planned for '16.
How back-loaded do you expect the remaining investment to be? Glenn it's a reasonable question and I don't really have the full layout of the transmission.
I'll tell you that overall though on our capital expenditure plan that it's pretty evened out over this period of time.
Obviously one of the things we're looking to do over time is to be able to achieve steady rate based growth and so when you look at that $11 billion of overall capital expenditures that are planned for the five-year period and you look at our CapEx today which is about $2.155 billion it's a little below the average of $11 billion of five-year spend.
So over this period of time we're looking to spend in any given year I would say anywhere between that $2.155 billion up to about $2.350 billion over this period of time and obviously again trying to achieve as best we can to steady rate base growth through time.
Obviously in Missouri where you've got periodic rate cases that can be a little bit lumpier but again over time the goal is to have that steady rate base growth through the deployment of capital.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Russo from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Hi Brian.
In the event that you don't get the accounting order to cover for Noranda's lost sales how should we look at kind of the general rate case strategy? I believe you said the legislature ends in May.
So that would probably with or without legislation that would kind of trigger the rate case and then assuming what like a 12 month rate case process that puts you somewhere towards later first quarter of '17 or early second quarter for new rates? Sure let me -- the rate case processes in Missouri take 11 months.
So you're right about when the legislative session ends.
So we’ll be thinking about those things as I mentioned thinking about again like I said rate base addition and the timing of cost to increase and things like that.
One other thing to think about with respect to Noranda and we mentioned this on the call is just how their rates are structured.
Their rate is lower during the period of October through May at around $31 per megawatt hour and then from June to September its around $46 per megawatt hour.
So that margin differential and the impact on us is something we would be mindful of too as we look out to the conclusion of a rate case and when new rates would go into effect in the 2016 timeframe.
So those are all things that we would be mindful of.
Thank you.
And I think earlier you mentioned that embedded in your guidance is about 50 basis points of lag in the Missouri jurisdiction.
Is that like the historical norm for you guys or is that due to the temporary or the O&amp;M containment efforts that you are pursuing? Sure what we said in the call and is on the slide is that we expect to earn within 50 basis point of the allowed and it really is a factor of some of the lag that we are experiencing in 2016.
I mentioned the effects of some of the energy efficiency programs and some of the headwind we’ve got there.
Some of the other things we identified obviously on the call just ongoing depreciation transmission cost you recall that formerly we had transmission cost in the FAC but they came out in the last rate case.
So as those costs have increased that’s creating lag and then property taxes and so all of those things are creating headwinds as we roll into 2016.
As I mentioned we’ve worked very hard and we have plans in place to offset a good part of that with reductions in year-over-year operations and maintenance cost.
And obviously we don’t give all of those details on the pluses and minuses on the call but did want to provide you some frame of reference that net of all of those things and again if you exclude the Noranda impact but you do go ahead and include a normalized level of Callaway refueling cost that we would expect to earn to within 50 basis points so that allowed.
Our goal going forward as it has been in past is just try to earn as close to our allowed as we can that remains our goal.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Felix Carmen from Visium.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys how are you doing? Just two quick questions on the Noranda thing I know it’s a temporary thing in nature but can you just walk us through the high level math and how you get into the $0.13? Yeah sure.
This is Marty again.
In terms of the $0.13 we do have the opportunity as a result of the fuel adjustment clause to be able to retain margins on our system interchange sales that we make as a result of the reduced sales volumes to Noranda.
So when we look at it we look at the differential between the rates that Noranda would have been paying and the price that we can get for those kilowatt hours in the wholesale markets.
When we look at that and around the clock price today and anyhow is probably around $27 per megawatt hour but there is also a negative basis differential to our plans and frankly over the past couple of years that’s been running 15% to 18% kind of a basis differential.
So those are the factors that we take into consideration and the calculation of that expected $0.13 drag on 2016 earnings.
Okay.
So it does assume some offset from the wholesale sales.
Yes it does.
Okay.
And then can you just provide us a little bit of guidance on how that's falls through the quarters in '16? I guess the best I can tell you when you -- through the quarters is just again to go back to Noranda’s rate and then you can go ahead and look at power prices but the Noranda rate again between October and May is about $31 per megawatt hour and then during June to September its about $46 per megawatt hour.
So that's how their rates break down and then you got to compare it to what you think the off system sales price might be for each of those periods.
Okay.
So there is some lumpiness that should be the assumption right? Yes there is some lumpiness and if you just looked at the Noranda revenues you would say that the bigger impact would be in those summer months.
Okay.
Great.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing remarks.
This is Doug Fischer.
Thank you for participating in this call.
Let me remind you again that a replay of the call will be available for one year on our website.
If you have questions you may call the contacts listed on today’s release.
Financial analyst inquiries should be directed to me Doug Fischer or my associate Andrew Kirk.
Media should call Joe Muehlenkamp.
Our contact numbers are on today’s News Release.
Again thank you for your interest in Ameren and have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our teleconference for today.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.