Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Robert Block Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for Allstate's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Following prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Don Civgin and me there will be question and answer session.
Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Joe Lacher President of Allstate Protection; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter President and CEO of Allstate Financial are also with us to answer your questions.
Yesterday we issued our press release and investor supplement for the first quarter.
We also posted a slide presentation that will be used this morning.
All of these documents can be found on our website.
As noted on Slide 1 this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations and actual results may differ materially.
So refer to our Form 10-K for 2010 our 10-Q for the first quarter 2011 and our press release for information on potential risks.
This discussion may contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
As always Christine Ieuter and I will be available following the call to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Now let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Good morning I'm glad you could all join us.
After my comments Bob will go through the business results and Don will then cover the investments and the balance sheet.
This quarter was a good start to the year.
The underlying performance of our business is good and it was in line with our full year commitments which we talked about last time.
We benefited obviously from lower catastrophe losses this year in comparison to what were near-record for the first quarter of 2010.
We also had strong investment results.
We remain focused on 3 priorities this year: the first is to improve our operating results; secondly to grow our business profitably; third to differentiate ourselves from the competition by reinventing our businesses.
The first quarter results reflect our efforts to achieve each of these priorities.
From a company perspective operating income increased 32.5% to $497 million compared to last year's first quarter which is due to lower catastrophe losses and continued strong profits from auto insurance.
Net income rose to $519 million that's $0.75 per share higher than last year's first quarter which was due to realized gains versus realized losses last year.
Book value per share was 13.2% above a year ago and 3.4% over the last 3 months.
At Allstate Protection profitability improved but net premium written declined slightly.
The recorded combined ratio was 94.9 compared to 98.9 in Q1 of 2010.
Catastrophe losses were $333 million or 5.2% earned premium which was in line with the historic average Cat losses for a first quarter.
But that result was obviously substantially less than last year it was about half of what we had in the first quarter of last year.
The underlying combined ratio was 89.9 which is up 0.8 or 80 basis points from the first quarter of last year.
Net written premium declined by 0.7% as our successful marketing campaigns generated increased new business in auto but that did not offset the impact of actions taken to improve profitability in a couple of markets.
At Allstate Financial profitability has stabilized and we're executing on our strategies to improve returns and grow profitably.
Our investments results were very good.
We continue to actively manage our risk and return.
As you know we've been reducing our municipal debt but the reductions this quarter were at a lower pace than they have been over the last several years.
This quarter we also reshaped the fixed income portfolio maturity profile to optimize returns and balance the risks associated with the shifts in the yield curve.
That's particularly true because of the steepness of the yield curve.
We are not extending the interest rate and equity derivatives related to our macro hedge programs given our strong capital position.
We also made progress on our efforts to generate long-term profitable growth by focusing on the customer sharpening our value proposition and improving margin-forming businesses.
We continue to test new products refine our customer value propositions for Allstate agencies and the direct business and are seeing gradual improvements in returns from the underperforming homeowners and annuity businesses.
And with that I'll turn it over to Bob to cover the business unit results in more detail.
Thanks Tom.
Allstate Protection entered 2011 with the following priorities: to maintain auto profitability to improve homeowners profitability and to position our businesses for growth.
The results for the first quarter reflect progress towards achievement of those priorities.
Turning to Slide 3 with the overall profitability of the business improved primarily due to lower catastrophe losses recorded in the quarter the top line continued to show mixed results in terms of premium growth.
In total net premium written at $6.2 billion declined slightly by 0.7% from first quarter 2010.
This was primarily due to a decline in units partially offset by rate actions taken in the last several quarters.
For Allstate brand Standard Auto net written premium [Audio Gap] to last year's first quarter as we continue to reach for the proper balance of growth and profit.
Our successful advertising campaigns continue to drive an increase in new applications issued almost 12% over the first quarter 2010.
This includes the results for those markets where we are taking significant actions to restore profitability.
Our retention ratio remains stable at 88.9% but it's still not at a level where we are generating unit growth in total.
There are many markets where we are experiencing unit and premium growth but in total we have not reached the point where growth in those markets exceeds the impact of profitability actions taken in select major markets.
For Allstate brand Homeowners net written premium at $1.2 billion grew 3% over the first quarter of 2010 as rate actions taken over the last several quarters work into the numbers.
This trend more than offsets the reduction in units.
We continue to employ a variety of profit-improvement actions including filing and gaining approval for rate increases which in the first quarter amounted to an average annual increase of 9.9% in 12 states or 1.8% on a countrywide basis.
Net premium written for the balance of our property liability business fell by 3.8% driven mainly by declines in Allstate brand nonstandard Auto and to a lesser extent in our Encompass business written through independent agencies.
Encompass continue to focus on its core product offering and is showing signs of stabilizing its business from both a growth and profit perspective.
Shifting to the bottom half of the slide we recorded a combined ratio of 94.9 a full 4 points better than the first quarter of 2010.
As we have said a few times the primary reason for the improvement was a lower level of catastrophe losses in this year's first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2010.
While this was a dramatic reduction in Cat losses from the last few years it reflected a result that was slightly higher than our average first quarter level of catastrophes of 5.0% to earn which we provide you in our investor supplement.
The underlying combined ratio was 89.9 an increase from the first quarter of 2010 of 0.8 of a point.
This result remains within the annual range of 88 to 91 for the underlying combined ratio we provided in our last earnings call.
On the next slide we provide charts detailing the loss cost trends for Allstate brand Standard Auto.
On the left side of the exhibit we give you the frequency levels trends for both bodily injury and property damage reported frequency.
For the first quarter both coverages showed an increase relative to prior year's first quarter but at a lower level of increase than we experienced in the back half of 2010.
In the upper right-hand corner the exhibit we show the results for paid severity increases over prior year for those same two coverages.
The first quarter showed an uptick in trend but at relatively low levels.
In the lower right-hand corner we give you the combined ratio for this line on a quarterly and 12-month moving basis.
The overall margin for Standard Auto remains fairly stable as we strive to balance growth and profitability.
The next slide provides similar information for Allstate brand Homeowners.
In short the loss cost trends for this line were in line with our most recent experience and are being reflected in our rate actions that we've taken and will continue to take.
The overall margin for this line was obviously better this quarter than last year as the result of a lower level of catastrophe losses.
More importantly on an x Cat basis the margin improved only slightly and our actions to improve this over time will continue.
Shifting the conversation to our results for Allstate Financial.
On the next slide we provide the top and bottom line results for this business.
Consistent with the strategic intent to improve returns and to shift the focus away from spread business to underwritten products sold through our agencies and in the workplace the results for the first quarter demonstrates the progress we've made.
Total premiums in contract charges increased 4.6% in the quarter over prior year with underwritten products contributing positively.
We've stabilized the profitability of this business generating net income in the quarter of $97 million and operating income of $116 million.
As is our practice we conduct an annual study of our policies during the first quarter of the year.
As a result of this activity we unlocked our assumptions with an unfavorable impact on first quarter 2011 operating income of $8 million and $7 million on net income.
In last year's first quarter the annual unlock produced a favorable impact on operating and net income of $26 million and $8 million respectively.
So adjusted for the unlock operating income in the first quarter of 2011 was $124 million compared to $113 million in the first quarter of 2010.
With that I'll turn it over to Don.
Thanks Bob.
The results for the first quarter reflect a continuation of our proactive management of risk and return.
Slide 7 provides you with a look at our portfolio composition and how it has changed since the first quarter last year and year-end 2010.
During the quarter municipal fixed-income securities were reduced by about $700 million to $15.2 billion.
At the end of Q1 2010 this asset class was over $20 billion so we've reduced the municipal bond portfolio by $5 billion over the last year.
At the end of Q1 2011 it comprised 15% of the portfolio down from 20% a year ago consistent with our risk reduction strategy.
Our actions have further improved the diversification of the municipal portfolio by geography and sector as well as the overall quality.
As a result of our improved and strong capital position at both AIC and the parent company we modified our approach to managing rate exposure and exited substantially all of the macro hedge programs that were primarily designed to protect against interest rate spikes and significant equity declines.
Given our outlook for interest rates our goal in the cash portfolio was to reshape the fixed income maturity profile to optimize returns given the steep and potentially changing interest rate yield curve.
The result can be seen on the right side of this exhibit with reductions at both the short and long ends of the curve and a corresponding increase in the middle portion of the curve at the 3 to 10-year maturity level.
On the next slide we give you details on net investment income by business segment.
For Property-Liability net investment income declined slightly on a sequential basis as yields fell while average assets remained level despite moving $200 million up for the holding company during the quarter.
For Allstate Financial net investment income also declined sequentially as the assets under management declined as a result of our strategy to move away from spread-based products.
The fixed income yields have stabilized in this portfolio.
On the next slide we provide information on the trends for realized capital gains and losses.
Losses from impairment write-downs were $114 million the lowest level since Q3 2007.
Gains from sales were $283 million as we've repositioned the portfolio during the quarter.
The realized capital loss in derivatives included the impact of non-renewing the macro hedge program.
And gains from limited partnerships were $63 million in the quarter.
In total we recorded realized capital gains of $96 million versus realized capital losses of $348 million in the first quarter of last year.
Finally on the next slide we provide a snapshot of our capital position at three points in time.
Shareholders equity grew to $19.3 billion up $300 million since year-end 2010 and up $1.7 billion since March 2010.
Our book value per share at $36.51 increased 3.4% since year end and over 13% over the last 12 months.
We repurchased $300 million of our stock leaving about $540 million remaining on our $1 billion authorization.
And we moved $200 million up to the holding company level from AIC during the first quarter.
The net result of these transactions was deployable assets at the holding company level of $3.7 billion.
With that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Matthew Heimermann from JP Morgan.
A couple of questions.
First just would you mind giving us similar to 4Q some color on just how the auto book is looking x New York and Florida and just kind of where we are in terms of pushing for rate there? And the second question is there's potential legislation I guess both in New York and Florida related to PIP for uninsured motorists.
And just would be curious how if that legislation were to pass how it would have affect your actions if at all.
Matt this is Tom Wilson.
Joe will talk about the auto book profitability around the country and how it looks with regards to rates.
As it relates to the legislative action it's really a little too soon to tell.
We obviously think that our issues and profitability are some of our own doing but some of what's going on in the marketplace.
We'd like to see the marketplace be a little more stable with better and clearer rules and the fee schedules be changed.
But it's too early to predict what those would be.
But Matt I'll give you Joe to talk about auto.
Thanks.
Matt the x New York and Florida combined ratios for auto are running -- on a run rate basis excluding catastrophe excluding prior-year reserve changes consistent with what they were running a year ago first quarter of last year.
And they're in line with our expectations.
We continue to actively manage all those states on a state-by-state basis.
Some are a lot better than we'd like them some are a little worse than we'd like them and we continue to work those on a state-by-state basis to adjust them.
I'll defer from giving you too much forward-looking rate or pricing perspective as we usually do but we feel good about those combined overall.
Just to summarize it's fair to say that if we think about the year-over-year change that that is -- that that can be entirely thought about as being kind of driven by New York and Florida then? If you take New York and Florida it's two individual states.
When you take everything as an "all other" bucket that's a fair characterization.
In that "all other" bucket some of those states they're doing better and worse.
Okay that's fair.
And then Tom so if I heard you correct then you're just going to go full steam ahead with whatever rate you feel like is warranted.
And if you get any legislative reform that's just maybe gravy on top? I wouldn't say gravy on top.
I would say we'll adjust to whatever the law is when it's put in place but we're continuing to operate with a broad-based multifaceted program in Florida and New York which covers everything from pricing to underwriting to claim handling practices to improved profitability in those states.
To the extent the laws change and we need to change any part of that program we'll do that.
But we're not waiting for someone else to fix the profitability there.
Your next question is from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
I was interested in looking to the accident severity trends.
I noticed that frequency is down just a tad wondering how much of that's being driven by prices of gasoline and whatnot.
And while severity's up it's not up a lot but it's up more than it's been in the past.
Perhaps you can elaborate? I'll make a couple of general comments and then maybe once Joe wants to speak specifically about any of the components of frequency or severity.
Josh I would say that first as it relates to frequency there's a whole bunch of components to that right? There's obviously gas prices.
Miles driven has a negative effect.
In fact if people drive less there are fewer accidents.
Employment rates have an upward impact on it because more people drive to work.
When they're working they drive more miles.
And then of course you have weather which impacts frequency.
It's a little hard to differentiate on a quarterly basis even a yearly basis how much of the variance and change is driven by any one of those components.
For example if they have rain and it's 30 degrees out at 2 in the afternoon that's different than if it rains at midnight and it's 55 degrees.
So it's a little hard to actually distinguish between those.
But we feel good about where we are overall in the combination of severity and frequency so that we're pricing that auto business profitably and based on what we see.
Joe I don't know if you want to make any comments about...
Yes.
I'd echo some of that.
Often Josh the first thing's that move on frequency are the smaller-dollar claims.
So sometimes when you see frequency go down you do see severity go up a tiny bit and then they offset.
So thinking about it in total is the right way.
We're clearly seeing gas consumption over the last several months decrease.
We're seeing some minor decrease in miles driven.
Those factor in to what's going on but as Tom mentioned there's a whole bunch of other things that ripple through it.
As we look at frequency by coverage underneath auto in most of those lines of coverage we are seeing some favorable frequency trends to what we've seen in the past couple of years.
A little bit of offset in most of those.
In severity overall we see it as a combination that's a little less unfavorable in total loss trend than what we've seen before but certainly not pushing total loss trends significantly negative.
And to sum would you say that it would be correct if I listened to what you are saying that you're not clearly seeing a trend? There's a lot of objects [ph] that's combining but there's no clear directional trend right now? I think what we're saying is that the increase in total loss trend is increasing at a slower rate than we had seen it before and we can't put our finger on it.
Often folks will ask "Are gas prices doing this? Are miles driven doing this?" And the answer is there's 100 different things impacting it and to put our finger on one of them being the sole driver is almost impossible.
So what we're saying is we can't answer that part of your question.
As a general statement we are seeing somewhat lower rates of increase in aggregate loss trend than we were seeing before.
And we feel good about the profitability of the auto business [indiscernible].
And given that you feel good about the profitability and what we're seeing on accident severity how does that affect your discussions with the regulators in the states for rate increases when you need them? Again it varies by state.
In states like Florida and New York where the profitability isn't where we think it needs to be or really anybody in the industry would be looking at the data we think it would need to be it doesn't have a huge challenging impact.
In states where we've got very strong profitability it would have the effect you'd expect it to have.
Josh I'd take you back to the conversation we had last year where we made some rate investments to reduce prices in a number of states because we felt the combined ratio trends were good and we wanted to increase our growth -- not that price is everything but price is obviously important.
And so if you look at this quarter you'll see the average premium is actually down a little bit.
That's reflecting those investments we've made in growth.
Offsetting that is exactly point that Joe made which is the average premium is not going down in Florida and New York.
Our next question is from Dan Farrell from Sterne Agee.
We've had a number of companies indicate that they had higher non-Cat weather-related losses in the quarter and I was wondering if you guys observed that as well in your results.
Dan Tom Wilson.
I'll make a couple of comments.
Joe might have something to say as well.
First I would say if you look over a longer period of time let's say 10 years what we had -- 10 years ago we saw an increase in the number of severe storms called hurricanes.
Over the last 4 years we've seen a dramatic increase in what we would call non-model Cats which are any large severe storms catastrophes that are not modeled by the catastrophe models called hurricanes earthquakes.
And so you have seen a big increases in severe weather.
So if you look at our catastrophe losses they've been over $2 billion at the last 3 full years.
And prior to that they were much lower than that if you look at '06 and '07.
So you have seen a dramatic increase in the amount of hailstorms golf balls football-sized hail straight-line winds at 80 miles an hour 120 tornadoes.
It's just you see a lot more severe weather.
We are acting and running our Homeowners business as if that is a permanent change as opposed to an anomaly because what Joe is seeking to do is turn the Homeowners business into a competitive advantage that generates an adequate return.
The challenge is trying to get ahead of the weather because the weather continues to be bad.
Joe I don't know if you want to make any more other comments.
Yes.
If you take the question of non-Cat weather to some degree that's going to be a function Dan of how people define Cats running through their numbers.
Our definition is a pretty broad definition of Cats so as a general rule we're seeing most of the activity running through those numbers.
We wouldn't make the comment the way others might but I think it might be a definition of how we're describing Cats.
Okay.
And then could you just comment generally on your ongoing efforts to improve productivity of the agent force? And I know in the past you've talked about there being a little higher turnover of agents.
And maybe just give us some general color on where we stand right now.
Yes.
Again the biggest thing to think about is we're not in any way trying to reduce the number of people we've got serving our customers the license sales professionals and folks working inside of agencies.
What we've found is that in some cases some of our agencies have a sufficiently small scale that they're not able to readily able deliver that customer value proposition that we're looking for.
And we're trying to help them get to scale.
The likely result of that may be that some of the smallest folks conclude they can't get there on their own and the best way to do it is by combining with another agency.
We anticipate that the number of personnel in the agency -- if you think licensed sales professionals the total number of bodies working with our customers should remain close to where it is but it will give them a better ability to actually deliver that value proposition the customers are looking for.
We're making good progress on that.
That work will continue.
It will take us at least another year or year and a half to really move it where we want to go.
And we feel good about the progress we're making overall.
Let me broaden your question just a little bit.
It is in part about efficiency but it's also about effectiveness.
And everything Joe just described is also about making sure that those agencies have the skills capabilities people to be able to serve our customers well.
Last year the agency loyalty index which is a measure we have which says how well are the customers doing was up 3 full points which is about a 5% improvement.
Our next question is from Alison Jacobowitz from Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
I was wondering if you can give an update on your view on the nonstandard market and an outlook as to whether or not you might be growing there more significantly at some point.
And similarly I was wondering if you can update us on California and where you stand there.
And then my last question would be on the life earnings.
X the DAC and [indiscernible] how sustainable do you think that is? Okay Alison let me just get some clarity on question 2.
What in California specifically? Joe can definitely deal with nonstandard Matt can talk about the life business which we're feeling good about these days.
What was your -- in California what specifically were you talking about? Sorry.
Growth and the resumption of it now that you've resolved some of your issues there? Okay very helpful Alison.
Nonstandard in the auto marketplace functions very differently than Standard Auto.
You got to approach the customers the operation the pricing the claim activity differently.
We have at times if you go back far enough in our history been bigger there concluded that we weren't operating that business in a way we were comfortable generating an appropriate level of profitability so it's contracted somewhat.
I do believe there is a place for it and we can provide some coverage in that marketplace over the long term.
I'm optimistic that we can get better growth than we had in the last couple of years because we've been shrinking it.
So anticipate we can turn that around but don't anticipate it's going to be a huge percentage of our aggregate portfolio in the near term if that helps you with that question.
On California it has been and we anticipate it will continue to be a challenging marketplace.
There were a couple of obstacles we had with the Department of Insurance and consumer advocate and adjusting our rating plan.
We've cleared those and are moving forward.
We anticipate successfully executing those in the marketplace and feel better about our prospects there.
But we'll continue on a regular basis to move somewhat slowly in that marketplace.
Because any time you get a little sideways it takes a long time to correct it.
So we'll cautiously move forward there.
Matthew do you want to talk about life insurance? Sure.
Alison this is Matt Winter.
So I think your question was how sustainable we think the life earnings are x DAC.
As you know we spent the vast majority of last year stabilizing the business and de-risking the business in order to take out some of the volatility that existed in the business specifically in its earnings stream.
A lot of the work we're doing this year is to continue that de-risking and at the same time position business for growth.
So there will always be some volatility in the benefit spread through the mortality which fluctuates during the year but the more policies we put on and the more we grow our mortality and the morbidity businesses we will attempt to dampen some of that volatility.
So we believe that we're positioned quite well for the future and we think the earnings that you see are representative of the capabilities of the business.
And we're cautiously optimistic about what the future brings.
Our next question is from Greg Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to -- I'm sort of trying to reconcile the direction of the Standard Auto top line.
And so I certainly can see from the supplement what average premiums are doing and you called that out in the release.
And then I'm trying to reconcile that with pricing overall for the marketplace is going up and it looks like on Page 15 of the supplement pricing seems to be headed higher.
And we know what PIF is doing.
I guess -- I know it's been asked before and you guys comment on it but I mean I'm just trying to think when does the top line begin to grow for Standard Auto.
Is this in '11 in '12? I mean when do we see the reversal? The only forecast we like to do is what we believe the underlying combined ratio is.
So we don't do top or bottom line and as it relates to the other prospects for that business.
If you -- once we fix New York and Florida the business overall should be growing.
You can decide how rapidly you think that grows based on what our new business trends are which have been very strong.
And then the most important part of our growth at this point is moving our retention levels up.
So we kind of held retention flat.
It's up a tick but I would say statistically it's not really significant.
We need to move that number up to get real growth.
Even with retention of point you get a point of growth automatically so our big focus right now is driving retention up.
Okay great.
And then the second question is just on the ROE for the overall corporation.
How do you -- is this a 10-ROE business? Is this a 12? Is this a 15? We know what you've earned in the past and I'm just curious once you execute on the trend where you think you'll settle out given what's going on in the balance sheet yields et cetera? We obviously think it's a lot higher than it is today.
Let me break that into components: The return on both book capital which is the way you look at it and economic capital which is another way we look at it in the auto business it's terrific.
We like it.
We manage it quite effectively and it's been very consistent.
The underperforming businesses have of course have been Homeowners where you have about $6 billion of premium and a lot of capital.
Again it's because of the volatility and Joe has talked about how he's working to drive returns up in that business.
That will obviously bring our overall ROE up from where it is today.
In the Life at Allstate Financial a couple of businesses are quite profitable.
Both our life business which is sold through Allstate agencies and our Allstate Benefits business.
We like both of those businesses.
And both have growth prospects and the returns.
We're still working our way through the Annuity business that Matt talked about trying to stabilize that return.
So those are the components of the earnings piece of it.
From a capital standpoint what obviously we seek to do is to make sure we have sufficient capital to protect us from any volatility that comes around in the company and then to the extent we don't need that capital to support the current business we either deploy it by expanding into something else or doing things like share repurchases where we're way ahead on our $1 billion program today.
So we try to manage with both the operating side and the capital side in a reasonable balancing.
But the most important thing to driving returns up from here will be getting Homeowners and the Annuity business to get their returns up.
And we don't necessarily have a target.
I'm not going to say "Here's the target and I'll be here be by this date." I'd like it to be as high as it can be.
There's nothing wrong with great returns.
And we've had as you know ROEs that are well into the teens the high teens.
Sometimes it even begins with a 2 on it.
So we don't have I don't have a target that I want to work to or below.
Our job is to drive as much shareholder value which includes returns.
But then related to that you also have to have growth.
So share prices are driven by both the current returns which is usually more than half of your current value and then growth.
So in the Auto business as somebody else pointed out earlier the average premium has been down a little bit but that's because we're trying to drive growth up because we think that maximizes shareholder value.
Okay.
And just again on the ROE.
I have a very hard time seeing teens but I actually think your stock would do fine if you just got to double digits.
So I should take away that double digits is a very very reasonable trajectory sustainably? Obviously you did it this quarter but that's a sustainable reasonable trajectory for the business the next few years? I would agree with that yes.
Our next question is from Paul Newsome from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Thanks for the call.
Maybe you could update us as to when you're going to think about or when the Board's going to discuss buybacks again.
And has your thoughts changed given the cash flow's done pretty well year-to-date with the holding company? Paul we're of course always thinking about capital as you know.
And that both serves to how much we have where we source it from and how we return capital to shareholders.
So we obviously feel good about how much capital we have.
And in fact we built capital this quarter despite buying back $300 million of stock.
So we're in a better position this quarter than we were at the end of last year.
So we feel very good about that.
I would like to see us growing a little faster so we could use more of that capital and deploy it at good returns so we could grow shareholder value.
To the extent we don't have those opportunities the easiest way to do it is to move through the share repurchase program because that's a good clean way to give it back to the shareholders.
And it doesn't bill fixed charges for the company.
We obviously are ahead on that as I just mentioned.
The dividend standpoint we tend to look at it as a percentage of earnings.
I'm feeling okay where we're at right now.
We had a great quarter but one quarter is a quarter.
We tend to look at that on an annual basis.
We obviously -- my board obviously approves it every quarter so we have the right and obligation to do that every quarter.
But we tend to think about that more on an annual basis than a share repurchase program which if we keep generating more capital we'll keep buying back stock.
And if we don't have good uses for that capital when we get done with this program we'll do another one just like we've done the other about $16 billion $18 billion of share repurchases.
L.P.</strong> No question there's been a lot of repurchases in the past.
Second question.
I apologize if I missed this but could you revisit the modest reserve development that we've had of late? And just is there any components there that we should be aware of? Is it medical inflation? Is it some other factor that we should be thinking about? I'll talk about the philosophy on reserves from an overall perspective.
Maybe Joe will make -- want to make comments.
Of course there's not much to talk about.
Our philosophy has always been to be conservative: Put it up when we see it and make sure that the balance sheet is solid and accurately reflects our reserve levels.
When you look at the total company we have really two components to that.
There's the "personal lines" business which tends to be very short-tail and any changes there rattle through relatively quickly.
And you saw a little bit of that this quarter in terms of catastrophes and a little bit of bodily injury from '09 and '10.
Then of course we have about $1.6 billion up in what we call our "discontinued lines " which is asbestos environmental.
The trends there have been very good for the last 4 or 5 years.
If you look at sort of how much we pay out in those reserves and the payout ratios and the various ways you would -- survival ratios the various ways you would look at that business we continue to feel that those are adequately reserved as well.
Is there something specific Paul when you look at the numbers on the amounts that are different from what you're seeing with other competitors and you're trying to compare one to another or? L.P.</strong> I'm mostly fishing to see if medical cost trends have started to peek up for insurers.
I know it will often hit auto lenders as quickly as anybody else.
Paul what we're seeing in reserve reestimates there's not a lot of motion.
And if you look at them over the size of the overall reserve balances they're relatively small amounts.
So we're not seeing anything that's sort of out of pattern on there from a trend perspective.
And as we look under coverages we'll from time to time see things moving around a little bit.
Nothing that we're seeing from a medical trend perspective that's way out of pattern.
It's an excellent point.
I mean we've put up a lot more money in PIF in the last 12 months than shows up here but that just gets moved around between coverages underneath the coverages.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Yes.
A couple of ones here.
First one I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the market environment in Standard Auto insurance just the competitive environment? And also if you could focus a little bit on the telematics out there.
And where do you see that having what impact is that potentially having in the marketplace? And what do you see it having going forward? I'll give you a longer-term perspective.
Joe can give you how he feels about the market today.
On a longer-term perspective go back 7 or 8 years the competition in auto insurance first got dialed up with pricing sophistication.
So what we would call strategic risk management SRM put our credit-based algorithms in Progressive Geico other people did.
Then the market shifted to include not only that but increased advertising.
And so you saw in 2003 we dialed up our advertising from $70 million to $250 million or something like that.
And everybody else -- at the time Geico was doing a like a couple hundred million.
Now Geico is from my read looks like $900 million to $1 billion.
So you've seen that level of competition get heated up.
And now what you're seeing is more competition in the area we started on about 4 or 5 years ago which is product and features.
So Your Choice Auto you're seeing a number of people start to copy our new car replacement stuff.
You're seeing people copy what we would call "decline " industry people call it "vanishing deductible." So you're seeing the increased level of sophistication of competition build on itself.
And so under that context Joe might want to talk about sort of what he's doing to make sure we continue to win.
Yes.
And Brian I think there's part of it where I think the question was targeted where Tom's going in part of it might be a more general comment about how aggressive people are being in the marketplace.
From a marketplace perspective we continue to see broadly carriers having an interest in writing more auto business.
There's clearly some marketplaces that are challenging.
New York and Florida is a pervasive challenge for the industry broadly.
We're seeing folks look at a lot of different tools just like Tom described from that broader perspective: Pricing sophistication product differentiation marketing to try to write more business.
We haven't seen crazy rate activity where folks are dialing back rates to try to drive it.
We're seeing the competition occur on other different other fronts.
And we continue to compete there ourselves.
We don't think it's a particularly advantageous advantage to try to just be perpetually the cheapest and keep dropping rates to have a price war.
Better consumer value driven by looking at the products and the features and the service capabilities that are provided and that seems to resonate with consumers.
Nobody wants you to be the most expensive but they do look for value.
And thoughts on telematics? Telematics continues to be a neat opportunity.
I guess personally I think over the long term we'll see it have an increasing impact.
We continue to make investments and run our programs and tests and learn in that state.
And I anticipate being able to roll out some things more broadly in the future.
I don't think it's going to get a real broad consumer adoption across the overall marketplace in the next 12 months or so.
I think it's got a little longer time horizon.
Brian I'm going to try to put in contextual layout.
Telematics has some of the advantage of pricing for an individual.
Some people as Joe pointed out like to think they're only paying if they're in their car driving.
So there is some consumer benefit.
Telematics also is in that first bucket of increasing pricing sophistication.
So we're obviously working on making sure we're sophisticated pricing.
We also are testing some things on the just the consumer piece which are slightly different.
So for example we've been testing a claims guarantee in 3 states where Joe's team the promise they make to customers: "If you're not happy with your claim service for any reason we'll give your premiums back."  That's a sense of how the competition is evolving.
Right Okay.
And then one quick question here with commodity prices up as much particularly oil prices in the last 6 months to a year.
It hasn't hit in the second quarter.
Any concerns or any -- watching what happens with respect to Homeowners some severities to leak through and those [ph] kind of things? Always.
We're watching it looking at it.
We've got a sense of what happened the last time we saw oil prices pop up and it's always in the back of our mind and we're watching for it to come through.
Have you seen it yet at all? Not a ton with this piece.
We definitely are seeing the residual effects of the last time we saw oil prices up and it's running through the severities and we're responding accordingly.
If you could look at building materials they were up all last year even though fewer houses have been built.
Cost of shingles all those kind of things.
Asphalt shingles.
Our next question is from Meyer Shields from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I was wondering if we could delve a little bit more deeply into New York and Florida to get a sense as where you are with regard to let's say non-renewal of policies where you don't think profitability is possible rate changes and maybe competitor rate changes? Joe will give you a little bit of perspective but given that we compete and that's a relatively defined market we're not that anxious to let everybody know what we're doing.
So with that caveat we'll happy to talk about the components of the program perhaps.
We're focusing on using every available lever to fix profitability there.
We've made some very aggressive actions from a claims perspective.
We've added significant numbers of adjusters bodily injury personnel SIU special investigation unit personnel to very actively work in that marketplace.
We're using more medical exams medical reviews statements under oath a whole series of levers on that side.
And they're appearing to be providing some benefit and paying off and they'll continue to do so.
They're in line with our expectations.
We expect to see more improvement emerge as we move through the year.
We've taken some significant rate action.
We filed a just under 21% rate change in our open company in Florida this quarter and that's in effect.
It's having largely the effects we expected to have on mix of business for writing new.
It's having the expected impacts -- largely the expected impacts on retentions.
We're retaining the customers we wanted to.
We're retaining the customers that were the most unprofitable at significantly lower rates and at significantly improved profitability.
Very aggressively working on the lobbying on the regulatory front both the legislative reform and to get regulatory help in dealing with some of the fraud.
And what's probably the bigger issue is abuse of medical treatments.
So we're pushing on all those fronts.
We are selectively looking at non-renewal activity in certain spots and in certain categories of business and we'll move on those as appropriate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's helpful I guess.
I was hoping for more of a timeline but I can understand why that's not available.
With regard to the surge in new issued applications for Standard Auto.
Is there any way of sort of quantifying the impact that that new business growth is having on the overall combined ratio? Help me with what exactly what you're looking for Meyer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Well in the normal state of affairs that you're pricing for lifetime profitability then the underwriting margins they could be a little bit thinner on new business.
We're clearly seeing I think an uptick in new business with only a hint upward in the renewal ratio.
And I'm wondering how much that's contributing to let's say to your rise in Standard Auto loss ratio? It's not a significant contributor.
If you just do  a little bit of algebra on the new business policies relative to the enforced book it's not enough to be moving that.
The year-over-year change is much more significantly driven by New York and Florida and then the new business fees would be at best rounding error on that.
Meyer we do run -- on preferred customers we run a new to renewal loss ratio of relativity which is over 100.
So you're right but we'd like the number to have a bigger impact.
How about that? Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Just I have one question on the portfolio.
If we were to look at just the PNC business what's the duration of that book? And how do you think about asset liability management and inflation there? And just one follow up.
Matt are you talking -- on the last 2 pieces do you want Judy to deal with -- sorry Michael.
Do you want to deal with just property-casualty or do you want asset liability and matching on the whole portfolio? I'm just thinking about PNC right now.
Okay.
Yes Michael Judy will hit all 3 of those and she's happy to have her questions.
Yes.
Thank you for the questions.
So the first part of the question was about the duration of the portfolio.
And the duration of the portfolio in the PNC business is around 4.5 years.
That's extended over the quarter and part of the reason for the extension is because of our decision to not extend the macro hedge.
So I'd say about half of it is because of that and the other half is because of the portfolio repositioning which both Tom and Don mentioned where we changed the maturity profile of the portfolio to optimize what we think is the right thing to do in this rate environment and this curve environment.
So it extended and I guess from an ALM perspective with regard to the Protection portfolio we don't spend that much time thinking about the ALM profile.
We manage the portfolio to optimize the economics for the protection business but don't necessarily pinpoint the liabilities from a duration perspective.
Different in the life business.
In that business we do that.
But in the protection business we don't.
All right great.
And then just a quick question on reinsurance cost in the recent RMS model change and Cats in the second quarter.
Can you just give us some color on how to think about that? I missed the last part what in the second quarter...
Catastrophe.
It's just as actually moderated in the South? Quite.
The RMS model change is clearly significant and we've all heard a bunch of people talk about it from an industry perspective.
We look at the RMS model where we more heavily rely on AIR which made their changes a while back.
We look at all the models out there and factor those generally into our decision-making processes.
It's not having a huge impact on tactically what we're doing.
We do anticipate that is going to ripple into the reinsurance marketplace from a pricing perspective and hasn't seen all of those impacts yet.
So we'll continue to watch that.
Most of our program in Florida we placed in February.
And it wasn't significantly impacted by this.
We've got a little bit left to go but we may see some change there but we'll see how the market plays out on that one.
Relative to Cats in the second quarter we -- clearly been a lot of activity so far in the quarter.
We've seen over the last couple of years increased volatility in the first and second quarters.
From what we might have seen if you look back 10 or 15 years when the heaviest volatility was in the third quarter relative to hurricanes.
If you look back at last year the second quarter was a very large Cat quarter for us.
So we continued to watch it and look at it.
We expect that we're going to see volatility like that going forward.
We're clearly concerned and worried about our customers and our agents and the folks particularly -- watching yesterday in Alabama that they get the appropriate help and support and service that they need to recover from such devastating losses.
In terms of being able to predict what those losses will be for us through the quarter we're not even through the first month yet so it's tough to tell.
And Joe's goal with respect to volatility and catastrophes and what he's doing in Homeowners is to have the question be "how profitable was Homeowners?" Not "was it profitable?" The next question is from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Montgomery.
Just following up on the Homeowners.
Joe you had said that it was a multiyear turnaround story a year and a quarter ago or maybe 30% away through the turn.
The first quarter was a good test on Cat management which you aced.
And the second quarter will be probably even a better test.
Where are you in the turnaround? And are you ahead of schedule? Does the first quarter give you confidence as a good data point? Bob before Joe jumps in there let me ask one question and make one comment.
Secondly I would say I wouldn't hold the second quarter out as a test of our Cat management programs.
The second quarter is going to be whatever mother nature delivers to us.
It really isn't anything that our operational programs can't deal with.
And Joe you might want to talk about your overall game plan.
I was looking more at how you -- what your Cat number is relative to the field.
So the first quarter was a good Cat number relative to the field so if it's big for the industry and you're a little less I think that would be encouraging.
I guess Bob I'd encourage you not to make that your benchmark.
I'm not sure that's the right benchmark as a change.
It may be an absolute measure of long-term performance but that's not something I'm going to anticipate that's going to change quarter-over-quarter.
What we're doing is we're trying to push the improvement on the aggregate returns of the business.
One of the things you can see is we had another quarter where earned premiums and written premiums were growing faster than underlying loss cost.
We've done that I think every quarter for the last 4 quarters and we'll continue to drive that.
We're going to push that profitability improvement broadly.
We're continuing to deploy a whole series of other programs on increasing rates across the book.
One example of them are we spent a lot of time with claim adjusters on a regular basis out looking at our insurers homes.
We are instituting a program where we're also having them spend a little bit of extra time to reinspect the house and provide a report back from an underwriting perspective.
That let's us make sure we're appropriately on the risk and it let's us a provide us a great customer service back to our insurers to let them know that we see some risk or issue that could subject them to a future loss and help them prevent it.
Because I think most people would rather prevent a loss ahead of time and know about that risk than have to deal with it after the fact.
So a big opportunity for us there and it's one of a bunch of little things we're doing that's going to help drive that profitability up.
So what inning do you think we're in? In the turn? Early or middle or? It's a long game.
There's probably 2 tracks to watch on it.
There's aggregate catastrophe model catastrophe management and we're well into that one and have done a very good job of reducing our peak P&amp;L exposures.
There's managing exposures to non-model catastrophes and we're more in the middle of that track.
And there's fixing aggregate returns and we're probably in some of the earlier innings in terms of change that you'll see on that track.
Our final question today is from Harry Fong from Soleil Securities.
Inc.</strong> Joe this is a question for you in terms of the Homeowners.
Cats in the first quarter were clearly closer to the 10-year average.
However if I strike the results from '08 through '10 the 10-year average or the 7-year average drops down dramatically.
Can you sort of speak about your mix of Homeowner business as part of the changes that have taken place over the last few years in terms of removing hurricane exposure earthquake exposure increasing exposure elsewhere in the country.
Can we get back to non-model Cat numbers that we had let's say from 2000 to 2007? Let me make a comment on overall weather and Joe can talk about our exposure.
The assumption underlying some people's view is that this is an anomaly in severe weather and that we'll go back to the good old days when non-model Cats were in the $500 million range not the $2 billion range.
We're not running our business that way.
We're running our business as if this change that you've seen as you've appropriately pointed out in the last 3 1/4 years is permanent.
We don't know whether the genesis of that increase over the last 3 years is just a cyclical movement in weather whether we're to normal or we were at normal before or its global warming or anything else but we're acting as if this will be permanent and we need to recover those costs.
With that Joe can talk about the things he's doing on geographic concentration because obviously that's another way you can reduce costs.
Harry the mix question you asked I think suggested that we'd reduced hurricane and earthquake exposures and increased exposures in other spots.
I think more accurately is we decreased a little bit of all of them and a lot of hurricane and earthquake.
As a percentage that increases our percentage in those non-model hurricane and earthquake-type environments but we didn't really significantly increase exposures in those spots.
I think what you'll more likely see is an increase in activity from tornadoes hailstorms other weather.
And as Tom mentioned wherever we fit as individuals on our belief of whether or not that that's permanent and ongoing or an unfortunate abnormality in the trend we're responding to it in exactly the same way.
There are significant loss dollars that provide significant volatility and we're going to very actively pull the levers to fix those profitability and return levers.
Okay.
Thank you all.
In summary we're off to a good start this year in 2011 a good first quarter.
We're working on our strategies which are to improve operating our results grow our business profitably and then continue to differentiate ourselves from the competition.
So we look forward to talking to you in the second quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Robert Block Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for Allstate's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Following our prepared remarks we will hold a Q&amp;A session and we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up so that we can get to as many of you as time permits.
Joining Tom Wilson Don Civgin and me for the Q&amp;A session will be Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter President and CEO of Allstate Financial.
Earlier this morning we issued our press release and investor supplement as well as filed our 10-Q for the second quarter.
We also posted a slide presentation which will be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
All these materials are available on our website.
As noted on the first slide this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations and actual results may differ materially.
Please refer to our Form 10-K for 2010 our 10-Q for the second quarter and our press release for information on potential risks.
This discussion may also contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
Following the completion of this call Christine Ieuter and I will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Now let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Tom? Good morning.
We appreciate your continuing interest in Allstate.
And following my remarks Bob will cover the business unit result then Don will go through our investment performance and then the financial position beyond the second quarter.
Before I begin a discussion on the results for the quarter I want to comment on last month's management change at Allstate Protection.
A decision was made and we've moved on.
We have a strong management team in place.
A blend of talented individuals on both inside and outside the company.
I am confident that everyone on the senior team understands what's expected of them.
We are all driving toward the same goals off the same plan a plan to grow our businesses profitably.
Now to the second quarter we advanced our strategy of broadening our profitable protection relationships with consumers by utilizing both sophisticated risk tools and then offering differentiated products tailored to specific customer segment we will create significant shareholder value.
Now while the weather hurt our overall financial results for the quarter it had a much more significant impact on our customers lives.
This is why we're in business.
I want to thank our claim employees and agencies for their dedication to our customers in these difficult times.
This is when the value of having protection from Allstate really becomes evident.
Coming into 2011 we have 3 priorities: improve our operating results; grow our businesses profitably; and differentiate Allstate from the competition by focusing on unique customer segment.
In the second quarter our underlying businesses all showed continued progress towards the accomplishment of those priorities.
If you go to Slide 2 we improved our operating results throughout the company.
In Property-Liability the underlying combined ratio which of course excludes catastrophe losses in prior year reserve -- reestimate was a very solid 87.5 an improvement of 0.6 points relative to the second quarter of last year.
Allstate brands standard auto combined ratio was 98.2 in the quarter an increase of 3.7 points from last year.
This increase was entirely driven by a significant increase in catastrophe losses.
Our underlying margins at Allstate auto improved relative to last year's second quarter as loss trends moderated and efforts to improve results in Florida and New York take hold.
Homeowner margins excluding catastrophes held firm as we continue to drive towards acceptable levels of profitability.
Operating income from Allstate Financial increased 12.8% versus last year as improvements in the benefit and investment spreads as well as lower operating expenses all contributed to improved results.
Investments increased portfolio yields through proactive risk mitigation and return optimization.
We had realized capital gains in the quarter and unrealized gains increased by $900 million versus the previous quarter.
We obviously continue to proactively manage our portfolio.
We did make several moves over the last couple of months given the uncertainty surrounding the U.S.
debt ceiling.
Our assumptions are that any dislocation will be temporary and that the commercial banking system will continue to function given the highly liquid nature of our portfolio and the long duration of our liability this then obviously only has a limited impact on us.
Nevertheless we did a number of things.
We sold treasuries we put on some additional -- we sold our long treasuries.
We put some additional hedges in place.
We shifted the focus of our short-term portfolio.
We underweighted equity and we continued our shift into corporate credit.
We also increased liquidity by building up operating cash.
And 2 weeks ago we issued $400 million in commercial paper and placed the proceeds in compensating balances to ensure we have cash to take advantage of any short-term investment opportunities.
As a result of all of our efforts in the second quarter book value per share increased 8.2% from the second quarter of last year.
It did decline slightly from the first quarter of this year as improvements in our portfolio valuation did not offset the overall net loss.
In terms of growing the business.
In Property-Liability we're still declining in written premium and units in Standard Auto primarily due to profit improvement actions in Florida and New York which more than offset growth in the balance of the country.
If you look versus last year quarter-to-quarter there are 27 states experiencing positive growth in Standard Auto policies in force.
Homeowner's written premium increased 2.6% driven by rate increases taken to improve profitability.
Overall units went down slightly as we downsized that business because of the cat loss exposure.
Canada and our specialty lines are showing strong premium in unit growth.
Allstate Financials growth in underwritten products continued in the quarter with half of the increase coming from Allstate Benefits.
Actions designed to reinvent protection retirement for the consumer continued to take shape.
We continue to test our Claim Satisfaction Guarantee which is now live in 4 states.
We continued our rollout of Good Hands Roadside and Drive Wise.
We've introduced new products at Allstate Financial and then we announced a new alliance with Aetna and Allstate Benefits.
And of course while not all these initiatives will be successful they're indicative of our strategy and approach to the market.
Going forward we will continue to focus our efforts on achieving our long-term goals of improving returns and growing our businesses profitably.
Now let me turn back to Bob to cover our business trends.
Thanks Tom.
On a consolidated basis we generated 5.6% increase from the second quarter 2010 in total revenue to $8.1 billion.
The increase was due to $57 million of realized capital gains this quarter versus $451 million of realized capital losses in last year's second quarter.
Turning to the bottom line in the second quarter we initiated a new disclosure policy around our catastrophe loss experience where we provide our best estimate of catastrophe losses that is expected to exceed $150 million in the calendar month.
Well we picked a good quarter to start the process.
As we've already disclosed catastrophe losses for the quarter exceeded $2.3 billion and overshadowed many favorable underlying trends in our businesses.
As a result we posted a net loss of $620 million in the second quarter of 2011 versus a net income of $145 million in last year's quarter.
On an operating income basis the loss in the quarter was $642 million a swing of almost $1.1 billion from the second quarter of 2010 all of which was attributable to the difference in catastrophe losses between the 2 periods.
The Property-Liability on Slide 3.
Net written premium of $6.6 billion was a slight decline of 0.4% compared to our experience in the first quarter -- comparable to our experience in the first quarter.
We continue to balance our efforts to grow with our desire to maintain overall margins.
Allstate brands Standard Auto net written premium decreased 0.9% quarter-over-quarter driven by the combination of slight decreases in both units and average premium.
Policies in force fell by 0.6% from June 2011 to June 2010.
New business applications declined 5.2% in the quarter while retention improved 0.2 of a point to 89.2%.
Actions to improve profitability in New York and Florida negatively impacted our growth in the quarter.
Excluding these states new business applications increased 2.4% and Policies-in-Force grew by 0.2%.
We continue to focus on profitable growth as it's critical to accomplishing our long-term growth and return goals.
Homeowners net written premium of $1.6 billion in the second quarter increased 2.6% as we continue to gain approval for rate increases.
For the quarter the decline in units was more than offset with an increase in average premium.
Importantly retention held firm at 88.4% up 0.1 from the second quarter 2010.
In the quarter we received approval for rate increases averaging 6% in 18 states.
Our long-term growth goal which we provided at Investor Day in June is to generate an acceptable return over time in this line of insurance.
Shifting to the bottom line.
We recorded a combined ratio of 123.3 for the quarter an increase of 26.5 points from last year's second quarter.
Virtually all of this increase is accounted for by increased catastrophe losses.
Catastrophes accounted for 36.2 points in the current quarter's results an increase of 26.4 points in a combined ratio from second quarter 2010.
The underlying combined ratio which excludes catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimate was 87.5 a 0.6 point improvement from the prior year quarter as loss cost moderated.
We remain well within our outlook range of 88 to 91 for the year.
On the next slide we show the loss components for Standard Auto.
Frequency for both bodily injury and property damage improved relative to 2010 levels in the second quarter with bodily injury frequency declining 2.3% and property damage frequency falling 3.9%.
Paid severity for both coverages shown on the upper right-hand corner of the chart increased minimally in the quarter with BI up 0.4% and property damage up 1.1%.
The combined ratio for the quarter was 98.2% an increase of 3.7 points from the second quarter of 2010.
The deterioration in the margin resulted from an extraordinary level of auto catastrophe losses in the quarter.
6.7 points of earned premium compared to only 2 points in the second quarter of 2010.
The underlying combined ratio improved in the quarter and remains at solid levels of profitability.
Florida and New York continue to have run rate combined ratios higher than the country-wide average though the recorded results for these states have improved for 3 straight quarters reducing the pressure on countrywide results.
We continue to pursue profit improvement actions in these states including rate increases.
On the next slide we provide loss cost trends for homeowners.
Excluding catastrophe losses overall frequency was slightly better than the prior year by about 0.8% and paid severity increased 3.4% in the quarter.
The underlying combined ratio improved slightly to 69.5 in the quarter.
Our goal is to get the combined ratio excluding catastrophes in the low 60s by 2013 so more to be done here.
Turning to Allstate Financial it continues to successfully execute its strategic plan designed to shift the emphasis from spread-based to mortality morbidity-based products while increasing earnings in return.
Our recent actions at Allstate Financial have stabilized the business and positioned it for continued strong consistent earnings.
Total premiums in contract charges in the quarter are comparable to prior year.
Premiums and contract charges from underwritten products grew by $20 million or 4% due primarily to the growth at Allstate Benefits.
Premium and contract charges from spread-based products declined by $18 million including $16 million related to structured settlement annuities which fluctuate with the changes in our pricing competitiveness in the market.
Net income for Allstate Financial was $166 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $107 million in the second quarter 2010.
Operating income reached $141 million in the quarter an increase of $16 million over the second quarter of 2010 as contributions came from improvements in benefits and investment spread as well as lower operating costs and expenses.
Actions to improve investment portfolio yields and reduce crediting rates on annuities as well as higher profitability and growth in Allstate Benefits business led to the solid results this quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Don.
Thanks Bob.
We continued our practice of proactively managing our investment portfolio and it paid off again in the second quarter.
On Slide 7 you can see that while the overall size of the investment portfolio stayed right around $100 billion the composition changed slightly with the continued shift out of municipal bonds and government securities and into corporate securities.
Also during the quarter we executed on our previously communicated strategy of moving away from the short and long ends of the yield curve towards the intermediate portion of the curve.
These actions as well as realized capital gains and an improvement in our unrealized position are reflected in the strong total return for the quarter.
The next slide highlights portfolio income and yield trends through the second quarter.
Overall net investment income of just over $1 billion declined by 2.8% from the second quarter of last year but was up from the first quarter of this year by $38 million.
Within the Property-Liability portfolio net investment income was comparable to prior year as yield increases offset the slight decline in average assets.
At Allstate Financial net investment income of $694 million dropped 4% from the second quarter of 2010 but was also up from the first quarter of this year.
The change was due to an expected decline in average assets being partially offset with an increase in portfolio yields.
Our success in improving investment income on a volume-adjusted basis was due to our actions to reduce lower-yielding assets focused reinvestment in the 5- to 7-year part of the curve and increased investment grade in high-yield exposure as well as strong limited partnership income during the quarter.
Slide 9 shows our realized and unrealized capital gains and losses over the last 6 quarters.
In the second quarter we generated $57 million in realized capital gains versus $451 million in realized capital losses in the second quarter of last year.
Impairment write-downs of $70 million in Q2 were the lowest since the third quarter of 2007 and at roughly 1/3 of last year's levels.
Realized capital losses on derivatives of $53 million were significantly improved as well.
On the bottom of the slide you can see that our unrealized capital gain position improved to $2.5 billion as well favorably impacting our total returns for the quarter.
Moving to our capital position on Slide 10.
We remain strongly capitalized after the extraordinary catastrophe losses we experienced in the second quarter.
Shareholders' equity of $18.8 billion declined by $500 million from last quarter but remained $800 million above year-ago levels.
With the increases in the portfolio valuation substantially offsetting the net loss for the quarter book value per share finished at $35.95 an 8.2% increase from the second quarter of 2010 and 1.8% above year end 2010.
Statutory surplus levels remained strong at an estimated $15 billion for Allstate Insurance company and $3.5 billion for Allstate Life Insurance Company.
We paid a $238 million dividend from AIC to the holding company during the second quarter bringing holding company invested assets to $3.5 billion.
This is down a little from March levels due to our quarterly dividend payment and the repurchase of $232 million of stock.
We still have $308 million remaining under our stock repurchase authorization and expect to complete the program by March 2012.
On the transaction front we're proceeding with the dissolution of the Allstate Bank.
Our deal with Discover was terminated due to approvals not being received by the date set but we still have high confidence in completing the wind down of the Allstate Bank.
With regard to our pending acquisition of Esurance and Answer Financial we're working with regulators to obtain their approval and already have received federal antitrust approval.
We expect to complete this transaction later this year.
In closing despite the record catastrophe losses during the quarter Allstate remains in strong financial shape.
Now we'll open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Tom my first question is can you give us your thoughts going forward on the leadership within the P&amp;C business how you plan to structure that? In the interim period people are reporting either directly to me or to other members of our 16-person senior leadership team.
Okay.
And then separately on capital management the pace of the buyback looks like it's on track to finish well before early 2012.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on that whether Allstate might be buying back stock into hurricane season.
And then how should we think about Allstate's level of excess capital taking into account the $3.5 billion of liquidity at the holding company? Jay we buy back stock as we think it's appropriate in markets we have extra cash flow.
Given the loss this quarter we started slowing down a little.
We still expect to finish the program on time with where we said it would be which is first quarter of next year.
As it relates to overall capital management we obviously have a long track record of returning capital to shareholders if we don't have a use for it.
The $3.5 billion at the parent company level some of that is necessary to make sure we have some cushion for dividend debt repayments and interest payments.
We don't have any debt repayments coming due anytime soon so it's mostly for the first and the latter.
And that tends to be somewhere in the $700 million to $1 billion range.
The rating agencies prefer to be around $1 billion.
The other amounts we use as appropriate.
So about $1 billion of that will be used to purchase Esurance.
And then we look at the share repurchases every time we finish a program we look at what we want to do going forward.
That tends to be based on our outlook for profits and what we think the underlying trends are in the business as well as keeping some extra cushion for the volatility which comes from catastrophes.
The next question is from Bob Glasspiegel from Langen McAlenney.
Tom just reading the financial press.
There's been a flurry of articles suggesting that morale is not good with agents employees and shareholders and your recent decision to make the management change was not well-received by Wall Street analysts with 3 downgrades.
I recognize Wall Street analysts are probably a distant fourth to the other 3 constituents.
But where is the company with respect to morale and does that get in the way of executing your plan? Bob we wouldn't hold you in that category.
Let me maybe deal with it in pieces.
As it relates to the agency owners.
The headline there would be look we're successful in moving through the change necessary to execute our strategy.
I'll give you a little historical background.
Ive personally known and worked directly with the agency owners for over 13 years.
Last week I was with 15 of our senior vice presidents who run the field force and about 1 000 of our top performers for 3 days.
And I also created and work closely with the National Advisory Board which is a group that actually represents the 11 000 agencies we have.
They are highly supportive of our strategy which is to make sure their businesses are focused on personal-touch loyalist segment by offering a broad set of differentiated products.
Now to do that well we have to do a couple of things.
We're going to have to increase the average size of our agencies and we're working to align our compensation system with individual performance.
So these are hard things to do particularly when you're fixing the homeowners business where you're getting smaller and raising prices in that segment.
But we've successfully come through changes in the past.
We're well on our way to doing this together.
Last week for example on compensation we talked about how we incorporated their feedback and we were given an ovation by the agency owners.
I'm not -- we get to where we are together.
We get from where we need to go together.
So these are people who are passionate about helping people running strong local businesses.
And together we'll start to grow that business.
So we're completely aligned and putting more resources behind their growth and helping them achieve their objectives.
So I think we're fine there.
It's always -- if morale is always a little better when you're growing and everythings good but we're also aligned and are locked arm-in-arm to go forward here.
As it relates to the employees we're in fine shape as it relates to the employees.
As it relates to shareholders I think we would all as a shareholder and Chairman of the Board we'd all like to see the stock price higher which is just -- we'll keep working on doing what we do best which is run the business make money and get it to where were going.
Okay.
Switching gears how excited should we be by the favorable frequency trends in auto in the quarter in New York Florida? Are the problems put behind us or is victory within sight for the overall results to show favorable frequency trends? Or was that just a nuance to how the weather flowed this quarter? Bob I would say you should feel comfortable that we know how to run that auto business and make money in it.
We've done it for a decade.
The frequency specifically in the quarter was down really across all coverages.
PIP was down in Florida so we're feeling good about our actions there.
But if you looked at it in total I would say it's in the range of normal fluctuations.
The second quarter of last year was actually a little bit higher than is traditionally the case in the second quarter.
So you get quarter-to-quarter comparisons skewed a little bit.
Underlying theme as I like to think about it look we know how to run that business we know how to make money in it.
Our next question is from Mike Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Just on the New York Florida item.
In 2010 you'd shown I think x Florida and California just trying to get an idea of PIF trends outside of New York and Florida over the past year.
Can you comment on that? And also outside New York and Florida can you comment on the trend in combined ratio over the past few quarters? And just one follow-up.
Mike a couple of things.
As I mentioned in the comments about in 27 states quarter-to-quarter we're up in items in force.
If you just look this year that number is 30.
So the number is moving in the right direction.
That range of up is from a low 1% to some are up 4% to 5% we have a couple up at 8%.
So the business is growing outside those areas.
That said we get paid to grow the business in total so we have to fix Florida and New York.
Those businesses are still shrinking in size and we're on the way to having those fixed.
But there's a whole bunch of things still going on there.
There's a new chiropractic schedule in New York so there's -- we're not out of the woods on New York and Florida yet but we're well on our way to having it fixed.
So I feel good about the underlying business model we have.
And saying that that works.
We got to make it work in all states so we grow the overall business.
Great.
And just so -- just because so in outside of New York and Florida you're seeing PIF growth but can you talk about if you're seeing PIF growth and what's happening on the combined ratio side? Yes I'm sorry the combined ratio in those states is better than the average you see for the whole country because New York and Florida are above that level.
You did see -- you didn't ask this but you did see a small drop in average premium this quarter which is in part due to some great investments we made to drive growth in those other states and that's working and those combined ratios are still highly attractive.
Okay.
So you're seeing growth and the combined ratio is tracking.
Are you seeing -- I'm just trying to understand combined ratio trend PIF trend if there's any way to kind of show what those are talk about what those are outside of California and Florida -- New York and Florida I should say.
Let me leave it with this we're feeling pretty good about where we are in the rest of the country.
We feel our business model hunch [ph].
It's not an easy market with the amount of advertising going on these days but we like what we see.
The biggest driver for us will be to continue to push retention up which means not only doing a better job for our customers and everybody else but also selling them more products and we had a really great quarter on selling Allstate Financial products.
We've launched new products there.
So we're liking the multi-line aspect of that which we do as well.
Our next question is from Alison Jacobowitz of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
If I could just maybe follow up on the past couple of questions.
For the New York and Florida to the extent you can can you give us any sense of timing of when that might work itself out quarters years what we're looking at there? And then on the issue of the morale and the agents now that everyone's had a little bit more time to think about Esurance has there been any specific feedback or vibe on that and maybe if you can update on that? As it relates to New York and Florida there's not a whole lot more to say.
I mean we're making progress there.
We don't have a specific date at which we'll think it's completely done.
I will tell you that we are starting to focus more on how do we grow in those markets now that we've made some pretty good progress on getting the underwriting stuff done.
So what we need to do is not only improve profitability there but grow those markets so that we can grow the overall piece.
As it relates to Esurance and the agency owners they're fine.
Actually many of them are quite excited about it because what we've done is said we're going to focus their efforts on personal-touch loyalists.
The Esurance will be focused on self-directed customers who want a branded experience.
They understand the difference.
They got it.
The additional work we're doing to improve the customer value proposition with them they're very excited about.
And we've also we loaned money to agency owners at quite -- at attractive return for them and us to help them merge agencies.
We are increasing the size of that new mass business and so we're feeling good.
Everybody is I think aligned around doing it.
So we don't -- there's not a -- sometime youll see reports that people think it's going to be like channel conflict.
This is about doing what the customer wants.
Everybody gets it.
Everybody knows if we do what the customer wants we'll all win and that's what we're focused on.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore Partners.
Two questions.
First was on the underlying profitability of homeowners.
So it's good to see that there's a 30-basis point improvement year-over-year on the accident year combined x cats.
Just wondering just a little surprised because earned premiums were up 6.6% and the frequency and severity up maybe flat to up 3%.
So what's happening here? Why aren't we seeing a faster improvement in the underlying profitability? First a couple of things.
Overall we need to deliver a combined ratio for homeowners insurance that includes everything not just cats.
You do have to be a little careful at looking at combined ratio x cats because it's not the same measurement on the revenue side as it is on the cost side.
Let me give you an example.
So if we decide we are taking hail deductibles up because we think that's the right thing to do for our customers and it's economic for us that actually would increase your non-cat combined ratio because you would be giving up premium but you would also be giving up losses but those losses are not included there.
So I want to just caution you a little bit about getting too focused on that specific one down to 0.1 of a point.
It obviously needs to come down in total because we need to be collecting more money for catastrophes.
But I don't want to -- every 0.2 or 0.3 of a point may or may not be indicative of what's going on in the trends of the business.
So we feel good about where that business is going and how we're driving it.
What was the second part of your question? What rate increases -- I hear that you're taking rates up around 6%.
So...
Wait wait sorry.
Yes I get it.
The overall -- we like the overall trends in the business.
There's obviously -- you get a lot of quarter-to-quarter fluctuations particularly if you look at like fire coverages.
Fire amounts to less than 10% a year units but a good 40% or so of your losses.
So to the extent you get any kind of swing there it bounces around the frequency and severity a lot so you really do have to look at paid pure premium.
If you're up 6 in average earned premium and you're up only 3 in your paid pure premium which is the combination of both frequency and severity that obviously means your margin is going to get better.
We've been pushing through large rate increases in the homeowners business since the beginning of 2009.
It takes a while for those to get through the business but we feel good about where that trend is.
Fair enough.
And just as a follow-up to that some competitors are taking rates up maybe around 8% to 9%.
Where do you think you need to take rates up near term to get to your targeted profitability? Well I -- the question obviously is asked in total as opposed to by state.
Some states this year even we filed for numbers with 2s on them.
There are some states where we're filing single-digit increases.
So it's of course varies wildly by state and with inside of state.
But if you were to use the total combined ratio we have non-cat today let's call it 69.
We'd like to be in the low 60s to handle normal cat.
That means you need 10 points or so of price on top of that which looks like what we've been doing over the last like 18 months.
Obviously some things change when you do that.
People change deductibles and that kind of stuff.
So it moves around a little bit.
You might not get all that through the written premium.
But we are well on our way but we're not there yet.
And so you should expect to see us continue to file increases in homeowner rates at least probably the next year to 18 months.
Our next question is from Matthew Heimermann of JPMorgan.
I guess question on net investment income and specifically I guess this is related to some of the change in derivative and portfolio hedging.
And I guess on Page 32 to 34 of the Q it shows a pretty big reduction if I'm reading this right in terms of the net investment income of headwind from interest rate contracts especially.
And so one I guess am I reading that right in terms of kind of thinking about that as the impact of that being helpful to investment income? And 2 was curious if you could give us a sense of how that breaks down between P&amp;C and Life? Matt let me maybe break it into 2 pieces and ask Judy to do it.
First we have the investment income but then the derivatives as stuff goes through the capital gains loss line.
So I'm not -- I'm a little -- I want to make sure I get your question right.
So Judy can talk about what we're doing on investment yields perhaps and then we can talk about derivatives what we've changed there.
Is that...
Well if I could just clarify.
I guess that had historically kind of been my presumption but as I was reading the Q this morning it just struck me that the presentation presents it as a reduction to net investment income and then a reduction to realized capital gains and then there's a reduction to policyholder crediting or benefits.
And then other expenses.
So that's why I'm re-asking the question and if that's still wrong then that's fine.
Why dont we do this -- why don't we -- if we put -- why don't we answer what are we doing with investment yield.
That will give you the investment income piece.
Then why don't we talk about what happened economically in the derivatives space this quarter versus where we were last year at this quarter.
And then we can figure out how to reconcile that with what's on the page this stuff in the Q with your asset [indiscernible].
Will that get you where youre going? Yes that's perfect.
And I guess with kind of the goal of putting in perspective the pretty big sequential leap and that investment income this quarter.
Okay.
So I think I can address the derivatives question when I talk about yield as well.
So if you think about it in 2 buckets the first is the core portfolio which is predominantly fixed income.
Quarter-over-quarter stabilize the yield stabilize the income actually the yield improved but if you look at the income it's largely stabilized.
The benefit that we saw quarter-over-quarter largely came from the equity side of the equation.
First foreign dividends which if you look back at Q2 2010 you would have seen the same pattern did quite well during the quarter and that's largely seasonal.
LPs we've had about 3 solid quarters of LP results and LP showed up during the quarter as well both in income as well as in realized cat gain loss the EMA LP show up in realized cat gain loss.
And then the hedge component that you may be referencing also benefited us in the quarter.
During the first quarter we unwound some hedges in Allstate Financial paid fixed hedges about $1.3 billion and that showed up as a net investment income improvement to the quarter of about $16 million.
So that's how we got to the $38 million improvement in income quarter-over-quarter.
So maybe that addresses your derivative question.
That's helpful I might follow up with an additional clarifier but that is helpful overall.
And then I guess just in terms of the life insurance side the crediting rate dropped pretty precipitously in 1Q.
It's kind of holding steady here.
So when we think about the interest rate spread from here given what you're saying about your yield on the portfolio that's probably a -- that relationship is probably pretty fair.
Is that a fair assumption? Yes Matt.
This is Matt Winter.
Yes I think that's a pretty fair assumption.
We have been fairly aggressive in crediting rate actions.
You see it somewhat in contract holder withdrawals.
We pierced the bailout in some of our products.
I think we're at a fairly stabilized level right now and so I think that the ratios you see should continue.
Therell be some natural volatility there as contracts come in and out of withdrawal periods.
But generally it's a fair assumption.
Okay.
And if we saw 6 months from now 10-year rates 50 60 basis points higher.
How much -- how quickly should we expect that crediting rate to change? That is such a complex question.
That depends upon how fast it goes up.
That depends upon where contracts are in bailout periods and withdrawal periods.
I really can't answer that without misrepresenting it.
Can I try a different way then? How in basis points whether it's 50 100 150 how significant a move in the 10-year would we need to see before you'd expect the crediting rate to start to change materially? I'm still not sure I can answer that and give you an accurate reflection.
Matt if you look at our overall portfolio.
Matt's kept it short.
We have a negative duration so if you're after what happens if interest rates go up we think we are positioned to do well if rates go up.
Obviously as rates go up it has a negative impact on the value of that which we own.
I got that Tom.
I was just more specifically asking about the crediting rate on Allstate Financial.
But appreciate it.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
I don't want to make the call all about New York and Florida but I just was curious if we could parse the complications in premiums and whatnot between objective goals in lowering homeowners and the loss of auto policies associated with that and rate changes because you just don't like the margins for the auto business in those 2 states.
Is there a way of like sort of understanding how those 2 components are moving in there? I'm not sure Im with you Josh on the relationship.
I can tell you what we're doing in those 2 states on both lines and then maybe that will...
Maybe a little bit but if we're losing premium how much of the premium you're losing is intentional because you're losing it in terms of a bundle that you're losing and how much are you losing because look we didn't like the policy we're changing the rate? Well there are 2 different stories here.
In Florida we're down to about a 3% share of the homeowners business and into the low teens on auto.
We made that change over the last 5 years or so.
And we managed our way through that by -- and we actually grew our auto share when we did that.
So we feel good about the work we did.
Now we do broker a lot of business through our agencies to other people so that our customers still have bundled coverage but we manage our way through that.
In New York it's more regional than the whole state which you have in Florida.
So if you get east of Sunrise Highway up on Long Island it's a different story than if you're in the boroughs or in upstate obviously.
So those 2 things are moving along apace.
We don't have as fast a pace on improving the catastrophe exposure position in New York because it's much lower probability.
So you do these things according to when you think you can when you have to.
And so we're pushing ahead on that one.
We've lost less auto customers in New York than we thought we would lose given the work we were doing at homeowners.
So we feel good about the way we're managing the business.
It doesn't mean that if we offer somebody coverage with another company and not us that they don't get mad and take their auto policy and go someplace else.
But by and large we have a good set of relationships definitely manage our way through it.
In terms of the auto rates that tends to be again more segmented by type of customer.
And so bundled customers tend to be getting less of an increase than non-bundled customers who tend to be the people who drive more of the PIP losses.
So we feel good about being able to do both things.
What we do need to do in the auto business is fix the profitability in both places and then to come up with a plan to grow.
Because if you're not growing in those 2 states it's pretty hard to grow in total.
And that's a multi-quarter situation? Yes.
And the other question I had unrelated.
I want to know if I can think about consolidated ad spend for Esurance and Allstate over time.
Would the 2 combined companies be spending less on ads than the 2 separate companies? Or how should we think about that? Well first you would always expect us to do what's economic.
So it isn't just sort of who's got more money to throw out in the marketplace so we always look to see what's economic.
It's our belief that what we're spending at the Allstate agencies is economic today and we'll continue to spend at that level to the extent introducing new products more bundling helps us we'll spend more money there.
Esurance we know through our research that we can increase the ad spend and improve the economics through its affiliation with the Allstate brand.
So if we say Esurance and Allstate company we know that improves close rates and consideration levels both of which give us the ability to spend more money on advertising both of which should enable us to continue to grow that business pretty aggressively.
Our next question is from Dan Johnson from Citadel.
I actually wanted to circle back on a numbers question I think was asked but I wasn't sure if it got answered.
I think weve talked about California and New York or growth outside of those 2 geographies.
In prior quarters we've talked about instead the impact of New York and Florida.
Can we retouch on those? And just let me know if you're still giving out those numbers on sort of the x California and Florida new app trends and then I've got a follow-up.
Dan Im a little confused.
I think most of it we've been talking about New York and Florida.
California doesn't -- I don't think it's been in peoples questions.
California is a state where we need to grow.
Youll remember in 2008 we took a $250 million rate decrease on Standard Auto in California.
As a result of that we slowed down growth there and there's some new laws came in place so we had to redo our rating plan.
And that was just approved and we've been in the market 3 or 4 months at this point.
We feel good about the results we have.
We do need to start growing California.
We have seen a pretty -- a nice uptick in retention in California in the last quarter.
Maybe I should have been a little more concise in the saying if we want to look outside of New York and Florida can you give us a sense as to what sort of sequential changes over the last couple of quarters we've been seeing on the production front? In total? It's about -- okay Bob can give you some breakout by stuff.
But I would say in total it's -- you're getting it low-single digit growth outside of New York and Florida.
Yes.
And how -- okay that's perfect.
Then how would that have compared to maybe the last couple of quarters? It's not accelerating the way I'd like to see it.
Okay great.
That's question one.
And question 2 I don't know where I saw this but there's -- maybe it was a Bloomberg story on agent and unionization and it seemed like a bit of a one-sided story so maybe you could tell me a little bit more about what's going on whether or not the agents are going to vote to join the AFL-CIO.
And if that's the case I was going to say how to -- a better way to put it does it have any impact? Does it matter? Well first as I mentioned earlier we're successfully moving through the change with in conjunction in tandem with our agency owners.
We have 2 groups the National Advisory Board which I established in 2002 I think or 2003.
We also have the Agency Executive Council which is a group.
Those 2 groups we work actively with to shape everything from how should we get agencies bigger to what should we do on compensation to how should we help you grow in your local market.
So there's a lot of work we do in conjunction with our agency owners every day.
I mean obviously they own businesses that are worth billions of dollars when you add it all up.
They're important to our customers and so they're important to the overall equation we have.
The group you're talking about is a small group.
We think it's a small group.
It's not officially any group that anybody really interacts with the company on.
They've been -- they've appealed to be a guild which is somehow affiliated with the AFL-CIO to -- but a guild doesn't mean anything if you want to form a union you actually have to be recognized by the National Labor Relations Board.
A similar effort was done in 2002 and they were not approved as a group because they are independent contractors.
They are still independent contractors.
The important point is after 2002 we started working very hard to and the reason we formed those 2 groups was let's get a line and do this together.
And so we've been in a good place.
This group is led by somebody was hasn't been with the company for over a decade.
So we don't spend much time with them.
Our next question is from Cliff Gallant of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> We're seeing a lot more commercials from Progressive about the rollout of its Snapshot product and I was curious what your thoughts were on that as a competitive threat.
Well you are seeing they are putting a big push on that.
It's a new way of pricing which is in part related to a new customer value proposition but it's a relatively narrow one.
We have something called Drive Wise.
We're in a number of states with it.
It's all device driven.
It has a fair amount of appeal to certain segments of the population.
It's not at all appealing to other segments of the population.
So we think that the connection between cars and the telecommunications connections between cars getting your car to serve as a cell phone on wheels lots of things will happen that we can develop broad customer value propositions around.
We have a number of efforts we call them the connected car effort which is there's very -- there's many pieces of that.
One of which is our Drive Wise program which we're continuing to roll out and test to make sure it works with people.
But there are other parts to that value proposition as well.
So I think if I lend a little more macro flip it's a little bit like we talked about in June which is the competition in this industry 10 years ago was really based on getting more sophisticated in price.
About 5 years ago it became who had to throw weight in the marketplace on advertising.
And now it's shifting to -- those 2 are still in place so they never go away.
It's now shifting to who can really do the right job for customers and our strategy is unique customer offering for people who want to buy bundled products.
So selling more Allstate Financial products selling more specialty lines.
We're up we had decent growth in Allstate specialty lines which is boats and renters and that kind of stuff so motorcycle insurance.
So you'll see more of the competition shift to things like that which will be either unique ways in interacting with customers or different value propositions which is probably why...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Is there a potential for something like that to be sent to policyholders of different companies? For example I know with Snapshot they only do it with their own customers.
But is -- as a branding or marketing tool was there anything that would prevent Progressive from sending the snapshot to your policyholders? What do you mean if they wanted to do a direct mailing of the device to our customers? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Right right.
I mean I suppose they could.
The devices are a little expensive.
So I don't know.
I mean important is -- I mean you can mail anything to our customers.
They're all pretty American so there's really -- would we want to mail their device to our customers? No obviously not.
So yes they could mail the thing out.
But it's -- I'm not sure it's a great economic deal for them because your breakage rate on direct mails pretty high and sending out all these devices would be pretty expensive.
Your next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Two quick ones here.
First Matt I think you kind of touched on this one a little bit with Mr.
Heimermann's question.
But just curious about the big increase we saw in surrender activity in the quarter anything unusual there.
Is that something we should expect going forward? And what impact may have that had on income in the quarter? Yes.
Brian it's Matt.
So we did have an elevated level of contract fund withdrawals in the second quarter but it was not unexpected.
So we had expectations based on historic sales levels.
And during the first 6 months of 2011 we saw an increase compared to the same period the first 6 months in 2010.
And those variances were driven primarily by increases in surrenders and withdrawals on deferred annuities in the second quarter relative to the same period last year.
So we had a higher number of contracts which were the T-Link contracts and the ChoiceRate contracts that reached the 30- to 45-day window period where there's no surrender charge.
We also took some crediting rate actions on our equity indexed annuities where we lowered those cap rates and pierced bailout rates.
We did that knowing that we would have an increase in surrenders as a result of that.
We believe that in balance it was the right thing to do economically for the company.
We in all of this have to balance what's good for the policyholder what's good for the company what's good for our ability to continue to sell those products in the marketplace.
So it's a kind of a careful balancing of all 3 interests but we saw exactly what we expected and we think we did the right thing for all 3 constituents.
Great.
And then quickly for Tom with respect to the initiatives that you currently have with the captive agency force and trying to get an average-sized agency a little bit larger any change in the pace of how that's going to be implemented here going forward? The pace begins with how do we do a good job for our customers.
And so anytime you -- if an agency owner decides they don't want to grow the business and they'd rather merge it with somebody else we'd like to make sure that we have all the processes in place so that the customers are taken care of.
We've been working hard on those processes over the last year or so and we're in position to do that well today.
The pace really is driven though Brian more by what the agency owners want to do.
We don't  as the lowest performing agency then we don't give you as many options.
But the large portion of our agencies get to make their own choices when -- with the compensation programs we're putting in place it should give them a good transition period and the choice to make a decision when it fits for them and their business needs.
So were at about 11 000 agencies today.
We don't have a goal as to what number do we went to get to by the end of the year.
What we do know is we need to increase the average size of them so as long as we're doing it in a way that makes sense for our customers will make sense locally and fits with the business needs of the people who own those businesses works okay with us.
So I don't think you should expect to see a huge rush up or down it just sort of -- it's what we always do.
In every business you're doing this you're always adapting to change figuring out how you do a better job for your customers.
And some people make the change and come with you and really benefit from it other people decide they want to do something else.
And that's fine you just have to do it with respect and dignity over time.
And our final question today is from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Just one question around homeowners if I think about the 6.5 million policy owners out there.
How many of those have an auto policy in addition to homeowners and how many are a standalone homeowners customer? Yes I'm sorry I'm looking at Bob I mean should we...
[Indiscernible] home is probably in the 40s.
Yes I know what the number is.
I just want to make sure  I wasnt sure whether you disclose it or not.
It's about 40%.
And we have -- that number has gone up pretty dramatically in an absolute number in the last year.
We had a very targeted focus on going out to mono-line homeowners and saying "Oh by the way your price is going up but we have a bigger discount on auto.
So if you'll roll your autos to us you can probably either -- you can certainly reduce and perhaps eliminate much of the increase by bundling with us." And that's been highly successful in terms of the increase and that's part of our strategy which is we'd like -- we need to increase the number of products that people buy from us whether that's auto and home; auto and life; auto home and life.
What we do know is the broader our relationships are the longer those customers stay the better relationship they have with those local agencies.
And those are the kind of people who want that local agency relationship and that's a specific unique customer segment.
We're going to deliver everything we need to do for them.
Separate segment would be what we do with the self-directed people and we're likely to offer bundled products there as well it's just we'll do it in a different way.
Okay.
So is that 40% that are mono-line homeowners you said? No it would be 40% that are auto -- home and auto customers.
Okay.
So I guess just with that other 60% I mean you guys were kind enough at the Investor Day to give us a little more disclosure about roughly 30% I guess of your equity tied up in the homeowners insurance business which we all know has not made money in several years.
Why wouldn't you just run that piece of the business down where you have no implication on the rest of your book on your auto book? Well it's not as simple a question as that because not every one of those -- let's take a 60%.
Not every one of those are not you earning a good return on.
So many of those customers you do earn a good return on despite because they're not in a cat zone or they haven't had those kind of losses.
Secondly we believe that the -- we can it's a great opportunity for us to sell them auto insurance.
I'm sort of a -- I don't want you to think about it as auto insurance-centric right? Auto insurance is our biggest product but we really are customer-centric.
We'd like to sell whatever our customers want to buy.
So if they want to buy homeowners and a life policy from us that's good.
If they want to buy homeowners and a boat policy and a life policy thats good.
So really think about it as how do we grab as many customers and sell as many things as we can to them.
We want to make money on all those things.
So it's not a good strategy to -- as you point out to sell money to a customer have them buy one thing from you and lose money on it.
But that's rather than just jettisoning them we think there's a great asset there that not only can we make money on what we do sell them we believe we can sell them other things we'll make money on too.
So it's not as easy and fast as you might describe besides the fact of getting rid of -- if you were to try to jettison another 3 million or so homeowners thered be a little bit of -- you'd have some regulatory issues anyway.
But that's not -- it's not -- our strategy is to make money on what we sell them and sell them more.
Thank you all for participating today.
Our goal is obviously to improve returns and then grow our businesses by having differentiated offerings for unique customer segments.
We'll see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's third quarter earnings conference call.
Tom Wilson Don Civgin and I will make some brief remarks to provide more color on our results for the quarter.
We'll then hold a question-and-answer session and we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up so that we can hear from as many folks as time permits.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A session are Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Mark LaNeve Senior Executive Vice President Agency Operations and Chief Marketing Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter Senior Executive Vice Insurance operations and President and Chief Executive Officer of Allstate Financial.
Late yesterday afternoon we issued our press release and investor supplement as well as filed our 10-Q for the third quarter 2011.
We also posted a slide presentation which will be used in conjunction with the prepared remarks.
All of these materials are available on our website.
Our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements.
Please refer to our 10-K for 2010 our 10-Q for the third quarter and our press release for information on potential risks.
The discussion may also contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
After our call concludes Christine Ieuter and I will be available for any follow-up questions you may have.
Let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Tom? Good morning.
I'd like to begin our conversation by reviewing our strategy in operating commitments for 2011.
Then I'll compare this to our third quarter results and discuss our 2012 priorities.
Bob and Don will then  go through the underlying drivers of our results.
If you begin on Slide 2 we're in the business of selling protection products to consumers based on their preference for price service and delivery channel.
It's a long-term strategy designed to evolve with the changing marketplace.
Our Board and management are fully aligned behind this strategy in goal of generating an operating return on equity of 13% by 2014.
To do that we're focused on 3 near-term priorities.
First we must maintain margins in the auto insurance business at industry leading levels.
Secondly we must improve returns in homeowners and Allstate Financial.
Thirdly we must aggressively manage our capital.
On a longer-term basis we're repositioning our products and distribution platforms to meet the changing needs of customers.
So near and long-term of course we continually manage our most powerful asset that's the Allstate brand and it gives us unparalleled access in opportunity within our core businesses and to each of the company's core constituencies.
So let me review our progress in the third quarter on Slide 3.
We strengthened the breadth of the Allstate brand standard auto insurance profitability by improving combined ratios in New York and Florida.
Both of those states continue to have loss ratios that are higher than the countrywide average though the results have improved significantly relative to 2010 reducing the pressure on countrywide results.
The rest of the country continues to have strong results.
The overall combined ratio for Allstate brand standard auto insurance is 94.2 for the quarter and 95.8 for the first 9 months of the year.
The Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio was 131.9 for the quarter of which 55.8 was due to catastrophe losses.
To improve returns we continued to increase prices and downsize this business with  average premiums are up 5% and then there's a 4% reduction in items in force versus a year ago.
The underlying combined ratio was 72.3 for the 9 months which is a 0.9 improvement from the prior year for the quarter.
It was 1.7 points better than the prior year.
Overall the property liability underlying combined ratio was 88.9 for the first 9 months which is at the favorable end of our committed range of 88 to 91 for the year.
Allstate Financial had a solid quarter with operating income of $134 million a 24% increase from the third quarter of 2010.
The returns from Allstate Financial were improved over the prior year as a result of higher investment income and lower crediting rates.
The fixed deferred annuity business declined by $4 billion in contractable  balances since the year end of 2010 as surrenders continue to outpace these sales.
Proactive management investment portfolio gave us 3 great results.
We maintained yields.
We realized substantial capital gains and we increased the absolute level of unrealized gains in the portfolio from the end of last year.
Our capital management program includes an active outsourcing program for products such as homeowners and annuity.
In the homeowners business we've reduced our items in force by $1.2 million or 15% over the last 4 years in part by offering coverage from other carriers.
Today we broker our homeowner premiums in many markets the vast majority of which is Florida and other hurricane exposed areas.
And as you know of course we are a substantial user of reinsurance which enables us to shift risk to third parties and recover most of the cost through higher prices from customers.
Allstate Financial uses similar strategies.
Of course we sold the variable annuity business in 2006 but the Allstate agency distribution channel sold $736 million of  nonproprietary variable annuities in the first 9 months of the year.
Earlier this year we instituted a similar strategy for fixed annuities so fixed annuity deposits declined $439 million so far this year.
So the Allstate agency distribution channel expenses were reduced by increased fees in these arrangements.
This capital management strategy what it does is it enables us to meet our shareholders' objectives of getting a 13% operating return on equity without sacrificing customer relationships.
And so we'll continue to aggressively use those tools as ways to improve shareholder value.
We also completed our most recent $1 billion share repurchase program at the end of the quarter which was about 5 months ahead of schedule.
As you know we usually determine our capital plans in February after the conclusion of  catastrophe season and when we have a good read on year-end capital ratios.
We're accelerating that review into the fourth quarter this year.
Let me finish  current results by commenting on some important organizational changes.
As you know to drive higher performance and increase urgency we've been changing our performance management practices and rebuilding Allstate's top management team which includes replacing some people who retired.
60% of our senior leadership team joined the company within the last 4 years which when combined with the breadth and depth of Allstate experience from the remaining 40% gives us a really good blend of external and internal perspectives.
As a group this team is dedicated to urgency.
It has a great sense of urgency.
It's completely aligned and is deeply committed to the strategy to deliver the value that we know you all expect.
Given the strength of our senior leadership team and the similarities of our businesses we decided to move to a flatter more streamlined operating model that separates responsibility for Allstate Protection along functions lines.
So in addition to his role at Allstate Financial Matt will oversee Allstate Protection claims product operations risk management and program management.
Mark LaNeve's responsibilities have been expanded to include Allstate Protection's field and agency operations in addition to his role which was to lead marketing and sales and service programs.
This move will shorten the lines of communication and improve our response as an organization to an ever-changing marketplace.
As we look forward to 2012 our priorities are very similar to 2011.
We must maintain profitability at the auto insurance line.
Improving returns in homeowners and annuities will continue to be an urgent priority for us.
Aggressive capital management will continue to be a tool for us to improve operating return on equity to 13% by 2014.
In addition we need to adapt to strategic positions of our businesses to reflect the changing consumer marketplace.
The ability to ensure Allstate customers receive the highest level of service from our agency force is as critical as ever to the success of those Allstate agency businesses.
That's why we're building stronger local agencies.
This is a program that has been implemented in phases over the last 4 years most recently including a prospective change agency compensation in 2013.
Our goals are to build up the average size of agencies so they have that capabilities and financial wherewithal  to meet customer needs at an affordable price.
We support the mergers of agencies by loaning a portion of the purchase price to high-performing agencies.
This program has loaned about $250 million at this point with minimal losses and we expect to continue to increase over the next 3 years.
Since 2009 the average size of our U.S.
agencies has increased by 10% and the overall number of agencies down by 14%.
The recently announced compensation change will have the same overall cost to the company but compensation will be shifted to those agencies that are performing at higher levels.
All of those changes are supporting increased performance on behalf of customers who prefer the personal touch of a local agency.
For those customers who want a local -- a personal touch but are less concerned about the brand and choose to buy through an independent agency we have new leadership for Encompass and believe our skills and capabilities will enable us to earn solid profitability in that channel.
We also closed on our purchase of Esurance and Allstate Answer Financial in early October and are implementing strategies to improve the value of that franchise.
Esurance will be able to leverage our preferred risk pricing expertise and very importantly our claim protocols and systems that both which will enable them to improve their competitive position.
In addition we're already leveraging the Allstate brand by changing the tag line from Allstate and they also hired a new advertising agency to position the Esurance brand to compete more effectively with those self-directed or self-serve customers.
We now have all the business platforms we need to be successful in protecting U.S.
customers while generating a 13% operating return on equity by 2014.
One final update as we look forward to 2012.
Based on the results of last May's shareholder vote I embarked on a corporate governance listening tour.
I meet with shareholders that owned about 30% of Allstate's outstanding shares and the major governance advisory firms.
Those were productive and helpful meetings.
As a result the Board is actively working on governance and compensation plan changes to be responsive to their feedback.
Now Bob and Don will cover more of the detail on this year's third quarter results.
Thanks Tom.
On a consolidated basis total revenues of $8.2 billion increased 4.2% from the third quarter of 2010 on the strength of $264 million of realized capital gains versus $144 million of realized capital losses in the third quarter of 2010.
Consolidated net income of $165 million declined by $202 million from last year's third quarter.
Increased levels of catastrophe losses which negatively impacted net income by $449 million after-tax were partially offset by the favorable effects of higher after-tax realized capital gains of $170 million.
Looking at property liability on Slide 4.
Net premium written of $6.7 billion declined slightly quarter-over-quarter the result similar to the first 2 quarters of the year.
Allstate brand's Standard Auto net premium written at $4 billion was down 0.8% compared to the third quarter of 2010 as lower unit volume more than offset a small increase in average premium.
New business volume was comparable to the second quarter but off by 13.2% from the third quarter of 2010.
Retention improved by 4/10 of a percentage points relative to last year's third quarter and remained consistent with the first 2 quarters of this year.
Profitability actions taken in New York and Florida have negatively impacted unit growth as expected.
Excluding those 2 states our policies in force  growth was slightly positive for the quarter.
Allstate brand homeowners' net written premium of $1.6 billion increased 1.5% from the third quarter 2010 as we continued to seek and receive approval for rate increases.
In the third quarter we received approval for rate increases in 15 states averaged 13.9%.
Canada and emerging businesses both contributed positive net written premium and unit growth in the quarter.
The Property-Liability combined ratio for the third quarter was 104.8 and included 16.7 points of catastrophe losses.
This compares to the combined ratio for the third quarter of 2010 of 95.9 which contained 5.9 points of catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio was 89.2 for the quarter and 88.9 year-to-date well within the range we established at the beginning of the year.
During the third quarter we conducted our annual detailed assessment of our discontinued lines and coverages reserve levels.
We made some minor adjustments to the reserves similar to last year which resulted in an immaterial increase for the overall combined ratio for the quarter.
On Slide 5 we provide the loss cost trends for Allstate brand's Standard Auto.
Bodily injury frequency improved by 3.3% relative to the third quarter of 2010 while property damage frequency declined by 2.6%.
Claim severity results for both coverages increased slightly with increases of 0.2% and 1% for bodily injury and property damage respectively.
Auto loss cost trends remain well within the range of expectations contemplated in our pricing.
The combined ratio for Standard Auto was 94.2 for the quarter an increase of 1 point from the third quarter of 2010.
Homeowner loss cost trends are displayed on the next slide.
Excluding capacity losses frequency increased 6% from the third quarter of 2010 reflecting heavier non-CAT weather losses in the quarter.
The frequency pattern was consistent with the last several years.
Claim severity increased 3.3% a level of increase similar to the first 2 quarters of the year.
The combined ratio for homeowners was 131.9 with catastrophe losses accounting for 55.8 points.
The underlying combined ratio improved relative to the third quarter of 2010 coming in at 73.3 1.7 points better than last year's result.
Rate actions to improve the profitability in this line continue to be reflected in these results.
Allstate Financial results are shown on Slide 7.
They had a solid quarter.
Net income of $183 million increased $98 million from the third quarter of 2010 on the strength of improving operating income and realized capital gains.
Operating income of $134 million increased $26 million as increases in investment spread and lower expenses were only partially offset by a decline in the benefits spread.
Premium and contract charges were essentially flat in the quarter as increases from underwritten products were offset by declines in annuity sales as expected.
We continue to successfully execute on our strategy of reducing the concentration and investment spread products while improving the profitability of those products focusing on the sales of underwritten products through the Allstate agencies and growing Allstate Benefits.
Now I'll turn it over to Don.
Thanks Bob.
As we've done consistently in the past we've had clear objectives and we've been proactive in the way we managed our investment portfolio.
And again this quarter our approach has paid off in the form of investment income realized gains and attractive risk return position.
Looking at Page 8 of the presentation the overall portfolio finished the quarter at $97.5 billion a small decline from the second quarter of 2011 as the Allstate Financial portfolio continued to decline as planned consistent with Matt's strategy to downsize the annuity business.
During the quarter we took advantage of market opportunities to realize gains from sales of primarily government and corporate securities and reinvested those funds into intermediate term investment grade corporates.
This resulted in a reduction in the allocation of governments and an increase in the allocation of corporates.
You can also see on the right side of this page that we're maintaining the shift in the distribution of fixed-income securities by scheduled maturity date towards the 3 to 10-year category.
This is again consistent with what we discussed last quarter.
Net investment income and yield trends are displayed on the next slide.
Even in this difficult environment overall portfolio yields improved compared to prior year as a result of our first quarter interest rate curve and derivative positioning additional high-yield allocation and limited partnership distributions.
The sequential decline in the Property-Liability portfolio yield was driven by a seasonal drop in foreign dividend income in the third quarter relative to the second quarter.
Overall net investment income at $994 million fell by 1% compared to Q3 2010.
Increased net investment income for Property-Liability was more than offset by the decline in Allstate Financial due to expected declines in the size of their portfolio.
In both portfolios enhanced yields produced favorable variance in income while declines in the average assets countered the favorable trends.
We generated $264 million of realized capital gains in the quarter as shown on the next slide.
That compared to $144 million of realized capital losses in the third quarter of last year.
As I mentioned previously we took advantage of market opportunities in our fixed-income portfolio to realize $692 million on sales of foreign governments treasuries and other fixed-income securities with the proceeds being reinvested primarily in intermediate-term investment grade corporates.
These gains were partially offset by $203 million of impairments and $234 million of derivative losses.
The impairments arose primarily in our residential and commercial real estate and equity asset classes and in the derivative category the majority of the losses were interest rate related.
The unrealized net capital gain position at the end of the quarter was $2.36 billion down slightly from the second quarter.
Unrealized capital gains on our fixed-income portfolio increased to $2.46 billion from $1.91 billion at the end of Q2 while the equity portfolio' s unrealized position went from a $625 million gain to a $95 million loss reflective of the equity market experience in the third quarter of this year.
Moving to our capital position on Slide 11.
Shareholders equity was $18.1 billion at the end of the third quarter a decline of $664 million from the second quarter of 2011.
We completed our share repurchase authorization buying $308 million in the quarter.
Book value per share of $35.56 was essentially flat from prior year and down about $0.40 from Q2 2011.
The statutory capital levels of our insurance companies remain strong with an estimated $14.4 billion at the Allstate Insurance Co.
and an estimated $3.7 billion at Allstate Life Insurance Company.
We paid a $200 million dividend from AIC to the holding coming during the quarter bringing invested assets at the holding company to $3.4 billion.
As we've discussed previously we've been hard at work to dissolve the Allstate Bank and during the third quarter we received regulatory approval to voluntarily dissolve Allstate Bank.
We expect to return all funds to customers cease bank operations cancel the charter of the bank and deregister the Allstate Corporation as a savings and loan holding company by the first half of 2012.
Lastly following the close of the quarter we completed the acquisition of Esurance and Answer Financial for approximately $1 billion and we will begin to reflect their results with our fourth quarter report.
Now let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bob Glasspiegel from Langen McAlenney.
I was wondering if we could dig into Esurance and your strategy and specifically how you're going to integrate Answer Financial into your agency distribution plan for example when they aren't able to close an account or would you offer that as a vehicle to potentially save customer relationships? This is Tom.
I'll make a couple of comments and then maybe Don may want to jump in as well.
First the way we look at the marketplace we have 4 segments of customers.
Those who want a personal touch of a local agency and want a branded product buy through the Allstate agencies.
Esurance is really targeted towards those who are self-directed or prefer to self-serve and want a branded experience.
And what we intend to do with that business is position it squarely towards them.
Before we acquired them they had a value proposition which applied more across that board.
It was people when you wanted technology and when you don't.
That sort of applies to the whole segment.
We'll get it a little more focused on the self-directed customers with the new branding program they're working on.
At the same time we're much better in preferred risk pricing and we have great plans and capabilities.
We believe we can reduce the variability of their claims costs use our resources our systems and our relationships to lower the cost which will make them competitive which should help us compete more aggressively in that marketplace.
So it will operate as a separate business but then leveraging the skills and capabilities that reside inside Allstate including things like the brand that I mentioned earlier.
Answer Financial really serves those self-directed customers who have less preference for a brand.
And what Esurance does is when you call Esurance if they can't close you they then route you to Answer Financial.
Answer Financial gets business from other places as well but what that does is enable Esurance to lower its advertising cost versus other people because it's monetizing those people who call who they don't close.
And that program works quite well for Esurance and Answer Financial as you point out.
That segment of the market seems to be growing and we're of course what Answer Financial then it does place that business with a whole variety of carriers which we continue to do and it continues to grow.
What we do -- We haven't decided yet to do with quotes that come from the people who want personal touch loyalists in the Allstate agencies whether we would route those to Answer Financial or not we're going to test that in the next 6 months or so and get a feel for it.
But of course we get millions of quotes that come in to the Allstate agencies.
Some of those quotes we don't close right at that particular time -- these are the persons  not ready but they really want that local agency.
Some of those people just called because they saw our ad and they'd be perfectly happy to buy it on their own or buy it from somebody else.
So we have to sort through really that flow but we are working as to how to  optimize the overall system.
Did that answer your question? One other follow-up.
Did you push the comp change from 2012 to 2013? If so what was behind the sort of delay? It was initially discussed as  middle of 2012 but we have been -- we when did this comp change we don't just sort of sit in the room and make it up.
We had over 300 agency owners working with us through various groups to help us figure out how to design it.
When we looked at the timing of it what it took for them to change their business model how we could get accuracy around the numbers so that it really drove behavior.
And quite honestly to give people a little runway to adapt to the thing we moved it back to the beginning of 2013.
We did give some people who are excited about the change and believe it will work and support  the business model the opportunity to opt in in July of 2012 if they want.
So it becomes effective for everybody Bob in the beginning of 2013 but we're letting some people choose to get in the program which we see as a good opportunity to help people see how you can win with the new program.
Does that make sense? Yes.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> In terms of being able to achieve the 13% return on equity by 2014 it seems that the biggest lever for that is improvement in the homeowners business.
And given the recent track record on catastrophe losses I'm just trying to get a better handle on what type of catastrophe load you're including on that to be able to achieve those results or what other  steps you're taking to improve the all-in homeowners results.
Jay your math is right.
About 70% of the improvement is due to the homeowners business where we've been historically to where we are sort of recently to where we need to go.
And as it relates to the catastrophe load it's sort of the average of what we would have experienced over the last 10 years as opposed to what we've experienced this year.
This year the last 2 quarters we have had higher catastrophe losses than if you look back at the prior 20 years higher in just this 6 months than 18 of the last 20 years.
So this last couple of months have been particularly bad as you all know and you can see in our results.
As it relates to how do we reduce our catastrophe exposure that's part of what I talked about in terms of -- some of that we just do through  normal insurance underwriting insuring the right houses getting deductibles up making sure we have the right kind of standards as to what we charge for different kinds of roofs and things that are getting pricing right.
We also of course aggressively use reinsurance and brokering.
And I think this is an area where I haven't communicated enough to you how much brokering we actually do.
We broker a huge number of policies where we can maintain the customer relationship.
So while we want to serve those personal-touch loyalists with everything that they need we don't have to make it all.
And we've done that successfully in homeowners.
We've done it in variable annuities.
We're now doing it in fixed annuities.
To the extent we need to do more of it in homeowners to get to our return we'll do as much as we need to do.
Can I just -- Kirk just pointed out to me that the option -- the opt-in on the agency stuff Bob was eliminated as part of some additional change and maybe people currently didn't feel it's a big need to opt-in so we took that out.
Research Division</strong> My second question is on the change in DAC accounting for 2012.
Allstate has $4.4 billion of deferred acquisition costs.
And even though -- you said in the Q you're still trying to determine what the impact is.
Do you have an early sense of what the potential for write-down  may be and whether or not that will impact 2012 earnings? Jay at this point I have no estimates of the impact either on the balance sheet or the income statement.
So we will adopt it as we're required to at the beginning of next year.
And when we have an estimate we'll share that with you.
Your next question is from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First question for Tom on Standard Auto.
Just looking at new applications down 13% and down 7% x Florida and New York.
Just trying to understand why that is if the ad spend continues to be robust.
If you can give us some color on that.
Sure Keith.
First let me point out.
The results on new business in a quarter are never do exactly  what you did in that quarter.
So I would say that the results in this quarter where due to  things we had done much earlier in the year whether that's advertising pricing where we are with agency capacity.
So there's a lag impact as to what you do in a quarter.
With that said it's hard to do a variance analysis of course but I would say it's a combination of really 3 things maybe 4 I guess: rate increases lower share of ad spend in the third quarter fewer producers and higher homeowner rates.
And it's kind of hard to split that up.
When you look at the rate increases we've had it's a little masked by the shift in reducing volumes in Florida and New York which are high average premium states.
So we have had increases in other states not huge but at the margin they make a little bit of a difference.
We have lowered our ad spend in the third quarter.
Now we're up this quarter and because the competition continues to stay strong sometimes we back off a little bit to see what other people will do.
But as ad spend stayed up -- State Farm has started spending more money -- you'll see our ad spend be up again this quarter.
Fewer producers we're really working on now expanding the number of licensed sales professionals inside our agencies.
While our number of agencies are down we can increase capacity by increasing the number of licensed sales people who work in those agencies.
And then higher homeowner rates obviously takes a toll because homeowner rates are a place where you can start to lead the business.
Once you get the homeowners it's easier to get the auto insurance.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up for Matt on the life side.
Just thinking about the new business returns there on the life side are they in line with the 13% ROE objective or with interest rates at current levels? Or is the mix of business now more dependent on mortality/morbidity  margins than interest income? That's a great question Keith.
So just for clarity I think at our Investor Day we talked about the Allstate Financial returns getting them up to the 9% to 10% range.
The 13% you're referencing was for the overall enterprise.
So within Allstate Financial obviously we had an overweighting in the investment products the spread-based products that in today's interest rate environment create a lot of pressure on returns.
We've done I think a pretty good job with getting increasingly sophisticated in our ALM in order to maximize investment returns.
And we managed to do that again this quarter and despite the decline in the size of the portfolio and the interest rate environment we managed to actually grow our return.
But I think as time goes on we'll be under additional pressure.
Certainly if this interest rate environment persists for an extended period of time it will probably accelerate our desire to shift the mix of business towards more of a morbidity/mortality component and a fee component and away from the spread component.
We had already begun that at the end of 2008.
We accelerated it in 2010 and we're getting the results that we wanted Keith.
So it's a fine line you want that portfolio to roll off but do so in an orderly and methodical manner so that you don't have pressure to sell assets at the wrong time.
We've had the right runoff in the business.
It's done what we'd hoped it would do and at the same time we've grown the mortality and morbidity-based business.
So we're comfortable there.
And as you know the returns on the underwritten business are significantly higher than the spread-based businesses and are in the low teens.
And we believe that on some of those products especially the accident and health products we can go in the high teens on a consistent basis.
So as a result the more we shift away from the spread-based business towards the underwritten business whatever interest rate environment we're in for the next 3 to 4 years it will be to our advantage as long as we do so fairly  methodically.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
The next question is from Alison Jacobowitz of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if there's any chance you could give some more color on the extent that New York and Florida are holding back your margins or maybe how that might progress going forward or some details on the progression already but quantified.
Alison this is Tom.
Both of those businesses are now operating profitably.
Of course you get all kinds of measures of profit whether that's run rate includes reserve releases doesn't include reserve releases.
But we feel good about where those businesses are.
As I mentioned they are operating at a combined ratio that's higher than the overall level but I feel very good about the trends.
We made additional progress in the third quarter on a variety of fronts including rates including the way in which we handle our personal injury protection claims.
We made good progress in getting those costs down.
As well we've also gone in to do a bunch of correct class work in New York in the third quarter as well.
So I feel very good about the underlying strength of what we're doing.
It will bounce around from quarter-to-quarter but it certainly from my perspective it certainly made the auto profitability much more robust when you look at it across the whole country.
The next question is from Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So on your ROE goal you mentioned homeowners.
I'm trying to understand if that's a competitive market how much can you raise pricing there without eventually hurting auto retention as a result of the bundlers and then just generally overall profitability? And I do have one follow-up.
Mike this is Tom.
We're not having a lot of problems raising prices right now either with regulators or competitors.
Of course it's no surprise since we're all losing money.
But we haven't had and so you can see the increases we've continued to get --  average premium is up 5%.
And that includes some fall-through because when you take rates up higher than that some people raise deductibles and do other things which of course works too.
Even though you're not getting it in rate you're getting it in margin because you don't have the loss cost associated with that.
So we don't see competitive pressure there.
You do have some customers who obviously don't like the big price increases and one of the things we've been doing is put increased spread into  our rates.
So if we say rates are up 9% in a state some customers might be up 30% other customers might be down 5% which is about getting more accurate in our pricing particularly as it relates to roofs and wind and hail damage.
And So that does have a negative impact on the auto business.
We don't accept it as a good excuse not to grow the auto business but we recognize its effect that it does have a negative impact.
So you can't be down 1.2 million policies in homeowners and not have lost some auto policies as a result of that.
That said our goal first and foremost is we got to get our returns up.
So our returns we want to get the 13% return operating return on equity so we're going to do everything we need to do that.
You can see we've done that in homeowners really over the last -- since I don't know --  since 2004 2005 we've been banging away at this thing.
We're going to keep banging away as aggressively as we need to get returns up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the other lever being  capital deployment.
Do you plan on buying back more in stock than you generate in cash? Do I plan on buying...
Research Division</strong> I mean would you plan to deploy more than you make? Well if you look at our history we've not used leverage in a massive way to buy back stock right? We do occasionally restructure our capital structure so I think I don't know if it's 4 5 years ago we did -- or maybe 6 years  we did a hybrid and we bought some stock back.
In general the way we look at stock repurchases is how do we if we have extra capital we return that to shareholders either through  dividends or share repurchases.
And then we always look to just optimize the capital structure.
We'll do that in the fourth quarter.
Normally we would do that in February season when we got through cat season and we knew exactly where we're coming out on capital ratios for the year.
And it sort of gives you a greater base from which to look forward.
We're going to accelerate that into the fourth quarter of the year.
We didn't do it already quite simply because the hurricane season is just ending as evidenced by some activity down in Mexico last week.
So we just didn't feel it necessary to have it completely linked up.
That said we thought the stock price was attractive so we went and got it and decided we were going to finish the program early.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
I guess my question so the cash flow from the P&amp;C company is year-to-date I think is $500 million.
Last year full year it's $1.4 billion and before that just over $2 billion.
And the cash dividend is about $400 million.
So I'm just trying to figure out how you're thinking about deployment versus how much you make and how much you're deploying already through the dividend.
Well we -- let me see if I could be helpful.
We of course look at how much capital we have at a given point in time.
And we think we're adequately capitalized today.
We haven't made as much money as we would like this year because catastrophes are $3.7 billion versus all year last year they were $2.2 billion so we had expected of course to make more money because we didn't think catastrophes would be would be at such a high level.
We do believe we still have enough capital which is why we went out and bought the stock back early.
What we do is we look at how much capital we have at a particular point in time and then we also look at what we think we're going to make going forward in the future.
We tend to have a little bit of a lag on that so I'd like to be a little long in capital rather than cut it right to the margin.
So as you look at where we are today versus where we thought we would be we have less deployable capital today than we thought we would have because of higher catastrophes.
That said I feel good about the underlying profitability of the business.
I don't feel good about catastrophes but it's always a little speculative as to what it's going to be next year.
But I feel good about the underlying performance of the business.
And of course from a capital standpoint we're incredibly solid.
We have a lot of capital we're very strong in terms of our rates.
I'm not concerned about that part.
So I think we have flexibility to make choices.
I don't know what those choices will be yet because I want to see sort of where we are going to come out on our overall analysis in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up to the earlier question regarding the interest rate environments.
So if the current environment did persist -- I know you've talked in the past about a target of $1 billion of excess capital being generated in Allstate Financial.
Would that be impacted? And then also if you could talk about the overall net interest income outlook for the company.
I know you guys -- yields have held up well.
Are you guys going to continue to shift towards corporates? Let me see if I can break than into pieces.
And Matt can feel free to jump in.
The returning of $1 billion of capital from Allstate Financial continues to be our goal.
Interest rates obviously will affect how much money we earn but remember part of the capital coming out of Allstate Financial would be as he downsizes that fixed annuity business.
So it's down $4 billion in the last year.
Matt's working hard to continue to downsize that business because we don't like the returns in it.
So we want our money back and that's what he's going to go  do.
Matt anything you want to add? No.
We feel confident that through some fairly sophisticated work on the asset liability management side and some additional work on liability governance on the in force that we're going to be able to maximize our potential for hitting that $1 billion figure in the required timeframe.
But we're also going to use our capital smartly and not do stupid things just to hit an artificial target.
So if the interest rate environment applies pressure on us in a way that that seems no longer the prudent thing to do then we'll rethink that.
But right now we believe that's still a realistic target.
And we still think we'll be able to achieve that.
As far as the long-term impact of the interest rate environment as I think we've said previously most of our products are at minimums at this point.
Very few do we have additional room to lower crediting rates on.
We are now spending a lot of our time on the ALM side and bundling our liabilities based upon both duration and liquidity needs and therefore working with the investment organization and Judy to get the proper investment mix and asset mix for each of those groups of liabilities.
And as a result we feel pretty confident that we can do a pretty good job in the foreseeable future in this interest rate environment.
But it's undoubtedly true that if this interest rate environment persists for an extended period of time it will put pressure on us.
Mike let me maybe give you an overview of what Judy's doing in the investment world and maybe she would want to make some comments on it.
The position we've taken in investments is sort of a 2 to 3 year time horizon.
So we're not trying to make trades for tomorrow but we're looking forward 2 or 3 years.
Judy and her team we wanted to be proactive to take action to move ahead.
But it's really around risk and return what's the right trade-off.
So obviously we took some gains this quarter because we thought that was the right thing to do over the medium term.
And actually I think it worked out quite well.
Obviously taking gains and then reinvesting if you were to reinvest in a like security would mean your overall investment would go down.
But that's not the approach we take.
As Matt was pointing out it's very much asset-liability management.
So maybe Judy wants to talk a little bit about the shift out of governments into corporates and what you've been doing to maintain yields.
Okay.
So as Tom mentioned this year we have done quite a bit of shifting out of out of govies into corporates.
And for the most part we feel good about that trade.
I think that probably the more important shift that we've made this year is to curve our repositioning.
So if you think about earlier this year we moved the portfolio and moved some of our near-term maturities to the intermediate part of the curve.
We moved some of our longer-term maturities to the intermediate part of the curve.
And because of that move we don't have that much in Allstate Protection that is maturing over the next 12 to 24 months.
So we've already done some of that reinvest in what was a higher interest rate environment.
So if you look at what's coming off  the Allstate Protection portfolio over the next 3 years it's about 3 billion in 3 years and it's about $1.5 billion in prepays all very manageable.
And in 2012 it's even more manageable in that we're looking at significantly less like $500 million in maturities and $600 million in prepays and those again at fairly decent yields in terms of being able to reinvest and not give up that much income.
The next question is from Matthew Heimermann from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just on auto.
Given that you're reporting some year-over-year gains in Florida and New York I guess a little surprised that year-on-year both in the quarter and 9 months that underlying combined ratios there look like they're sliding a little bit.
So some color there and if you could just clarify your comment on New York and Florida being profitable.
Was that kind of run rate  3Q? Or just some color on that would be great.
Matt I don't know that I got the first part about the combined ratio sliding in other places.
Were you talking about other -- that the results were worse in other parts of the country? Research Division</strong> Well in aggregate you reported -- you're reporting higher underlying combined ratios this year than last year both for 3Q and for 9 months.
So if New York and Florida have made progress I guess that implies other places have gone backwards.
So just some color on what...
I would start at the most macro level Matt and say that the returns we're getting on capital in our auto business at the levels in all those states even where combined ratios have gone up a little bit are great.
So we're getting really strong returns in those places and we try to manage those overall return return in individual states and then growth and being competitive in the marketplace.
So there's nothing in the auto business that concerns me that combined ratio is ready to head to the sky.
In fact I feel better about it because specifically New York and Florida are in much better position.
The story is different for each state as to why do I feel better about it.
One could be the -- one is certainly the run rate.
The other is the current rate.
But then where I see us preserving when I'm looking at the paid trends.
On some measure both states are profitable and when I look forward the trends I see indicate that it will continue to stay strong and in fact get better.
We're still going to be stuck with a little bit of the overhang on growth in those states because if you look at our decline in items in force 97% of it is due to those 2 states.
So we're trying to manage growth in the other states and early last year we took some changes in combined -- lowered rates in some places to get more competitive.
And then the other part I guess would be when you look at the quarter I'm not sure how much.
I'd look at maybe taking cats out of that number too.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm looking at underlying that are already adjusted out.
But I guess I'm just trying to put that in context given that one of the strategic and financial goals has been relative stability in those margins.
So I get your ROIC comment.
I'm just trying to put it in context with that.
Matt we're not going to let the combined ratio in auto get out of control.
We're on top of it.
We watch it every state every rating plan.
We're all over that.
It's a core goal of ours.
I wouldn't read into  what I would say are normal variations in the combined ratio.
I mean frequency you can't really predict frequency on a quarter-by-quarter even the 9-month basis with that much accuracy.
So it bounces around.
It can bounce around by a point easily.
That's when we give our ratio -- our 88 to 91 it's with that in place.
I feel very good that we'll continue to be finish out here strong.
I feel good about where we're headed next year as well.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I had was just on the corporate the compensation and governance changes that you alluded to.
I guess based on how you historically have paid people on the proxy it's been pretty specific metrics corporate as well as SPU.
So I'm just curious when you refine compensation how we might think about that.
And then just general governance I guess where the improvements here that you're talking about there.
Well there's a whole host of things we're doing.
The biggest change that we're contemplating and I say contemplating because it's a decision that the Board has to make and I have to work my way through with our management team but it's using performance stock units instead of restricted stock units as part of the compensation plan.
There are some -- governance people do not consider options to be performance-based and they'd like a larger component of compensation to be performance-based.
So we're likely to use performance stock units instead of restricted type units for the most senior members.
So there will be lost of other people inside our company where  restricted stock is absolutely the right way to compensate them.
We have moved to -- we do have very specific measures as you pointed out much more so than other companies.
That over the last 4 years we've changed.
That is what funds the pool.
It used to be what funded individual pay.
We've now shifted to that it still funds the  pool.
We have very specific measures to fund the pool which protect shareholders.
But then we allocate that amongst people based on their individual performance.
And that's why when I started I said one of the things we're trying to do is drive increased performance greater sense of urgency more accountability in driving results in the company.
So we do that with pay and have been for the last 3 years so that's a change which we've implemented.
As it relates to other governance things there's a whole host of items that we're considering the largest of which is probably a right of shareholders to act by written consent.
As you may or may not know that has been proposed as a proxy item for us in each of the last 2 years.
It got I think 52% and 55% vote of the current -- of the shares that voted support for it.
And we're likely to put that forward to shareholders as something that they can vote on.
Then there's a host of other things Matt that we've gone and looked at.
What we did when we went out and listened to everybody heard what they had to say and we'll adopt those things that we think meet their needs and drive what shareholders want in terms of governance transparency and compensation.
The next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> Tom I was hoping you could just talk a little bit about the agency consolidation.
And I guess in regards to maybe 2 things.
Just one the effect on morale especially as the competition changes are coming soon and I think that creates some anxiety as well how you're managing morale with both of those changes.
And then two I guess I just feel a little bit confused.
It seems every month or so I see a press release about Allstate adding 25 agencies in this state 50 agencies in that state.
Why are we adding new agencies which I'm guessing would be small? At the same time we're trying to consolidate the agencies on the top side? Let me deal with the morale piece first as it relates to agencies.
Obviously when you change compensation programs it creates concern amongst the people who are subject to them.
That would be true for our employees.
It's true for our agency owners.
And it's true for each of us individually.
Any time there's a change your sort of first perception is people don't want to pay you more money.
They're probably trying to figure how to get a better deal for themselves.
That's not true in this case.
In this case what we've said is we're going to pay out the same amount of money.
In fact to the extent performance is better we'd like to pay out more money.
We do want to shift it though towards those people who are doing the best job for our customers.
And that's kind of how we designed the program.
The program historically has paid out about 10.7% of premiums of which 10% was stated and 0.7% was bonus and incentives which we put in place I think 4 or 5 years ago.
Something called RFG bonus which is about $200 million to $250 million a year in terms of compensation we put that as incentive based plan in place 4 or 5 years ago.
We like what we see in that in terms of its driving behavior so we're working on a new compensation plan which is still 10.7% but has 8% locked in and then 2.7% which is based on performance.
Some of that is very easy to do.
You have to be open.
You have to have a certain number of licensed sales professional per customer.
You have to do protection.
I mean it's you have to have good signage.
I mean it's not like you have to jump over the Great Wall of China to get the money.
That said some people will end up with less in this new program unless they change their behavior and their practices which is really driven by what the customers want.
So there are a couple of options for them.
One is we're trying to support them to help them get better with all kinds of programs and efforts.
Secondly if they don't want to do that then it would be in their interest to sell to other agencies who do want to do it who are close to them.
And so we then as I mentioned we'll loan agencies money to help them buy other agencies and we do that out of Matt's portfolio and it's worked quite well for us.
Despite that in any change you would expect to have some people be unhappy.
And there are some people who are unhappy it's our goal to try to make as many of them that want to be successful successful so we can do a great job for our agencies.
As it relates to adding new agencies we're always looking for fresh blood and talent.
Just because we want the average size to go up doesn't mean that we're not interested in having somebody come in who's entrepreneurial who wants to build up an agency or somebody who wants to come in and buy an agency one of the existing agencies.
So they don't all have to be consolidated amongst themselves.
We're perfectly happy to have new buyers come in buy an agency and take it to a new level of performance because they see it.
And so we're always looking for talent and capabilities.
And that of course is obviously just a geographic footprint as people move around and stuff and you have holes in your footprint.
We're not as strong in the upper Midwest as we are in the urban areas along the coast because of our history.
So we obviously would like to have more agencies in those upper Midwest places where we're underrepresented relative to our brand.
Does that make sense to you? Mark is there you want to add? I'll just add that we do continue to need to add what we call scratch agencies as Tom said in certain geographic locations.
Texas right now as an expanding market would be a good example.
We continue to need to bring fresh talent in this buying existing agencies as they exit out of the business or retire.
We're doing that with a much stronger selection process and capital requirement than I think we had 7 8 years ago and as a result we're getting much higher success rates much higher productivity levels.
So that's part of the overall plan in the different programs such as the loan program to have agents acquire other agents either operating in separate locations or merging together when it makes sense to increase scale so they can serve our customers better.
So it kind of works in concert with each other.
I'd like to make a point that the agency's success is completely tied to and important to our success.
Sometimes I think people hear some of the noise and people were unhappy with what we're doing.
And I think we're at odds.
Those agencies are worth billions of dollars.
We want them to be worth even more than they're worth today because if they're worth more that means they're bigger they're growing they have stronger customer relationships which is good for us.
So we're in this together.
We're willing -- we're already in for a $0.25 billion supporting them and we'll go in for more so.
This is about all of us being successful.
This is not -- we're not headed into this with a fight in mind or that thinking that it's a zero-sum game if we have to take money away from those agencies.
This is about meeting our customer needs doing the kind of change we need to do which is never easy but in competing in what's a pretty competitive marketplace.
L.P.</strong> That's all very fair.
And I agree with most of what you're trying to do Tom.
I guess what I'm just trying to figure out is to some extent if there are some morale challenges is that part of what's behind the new apps declining some? Is it maybe a little too much too fast and it's going to hurt production for a while until things settle down? Or am I reading too much into it? I would say that the reduction in new apps as a company is on the company's performance not on the agencies.
The agencies it has nothing to do with them.
They're working hard every day.
They're out talking to customers.
We have to get a broader pricing target in auto insurance than we have today.
We need to be competitive from a technology standpoint and make sure our systems are working quickly and effectively.
We have to do good work on customer service.
So I would not put that on the agencies.
And it's not like they've gone on strike or anything like that.
They're busy doing other things.
We need to help them but it's the company's job to start to drive that growth.
I wouldn't put that on the agencies.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I first wanted to follow up on the margins in the auto insurance.
The loss ratio x cats went up over 100 basis points this quarter.
Was there some non-cat weather in that number? Vinay hard to tell.
I mean we do cat code and so when it goes to a particular state it gets..
.
and there's a catastrophe in that state it obviously gets carved out.
But then sometimes people don't report it right away.
And sometimes it's the neighboring state your neighboring areas.
So I would say that frequency bounces around a little bit.
We're feeling okay about frequency this year and importantly our paid loss trends look good as well.
So we're feeling good about this.
We were up a little bit in collision this quarter so we changed reserves a little bit on collision.
But we're feeling good about the rest of the PD coverages and BI as well.
Research Division</strong> And on the auto insurance business what's your targeted combined ratio for that business? We don't have an established countrywide target the way some of our competitors do.
But we obviously think that if you're at 96 you're still earning a good return.
It's not our objective to take our combined ratio on standard auto up to 96 however because I don't want you to -- but we do we look at -- what we want to do is maintain our margins overall and begin to grow the business which we think we're now in a better position to do given the progress we've made in New York and Florida.
It's not going to turn next quarter so I don't think you should expect to see us suddenly be growing at incredibly high rates next quarter because we've got this fixed.
As you know this business takes -- the strength of this business is 80-plus-percent of what we will earn over the next year we've already written.
The downside to that is it's harder to turn the overall growth side because you've got to get past those renewals.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And on the homeowners side for the loss costs trends are they up in the 5% to 6% range? And if you're getting rates up say maybe about 8% do you think you can get to your targets of low 60s on loss ratio by the end of 2013.
We're committed to getting 13% return on operating income return on equity -- I'm using operating income -- by that period of time and we're going to do what we need to do in homeowners to get there.
Maybe we'll do one last question.
Our final question today is from Brian Meredith from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here for you.
First one just looking at capital position and knowing that you had to fund the Esurance acquisition I guess in the fourth quarter.
Would it be a stretch to think that you could buy stock back in the fourth quarter even though -- or at least renew it and buy some back? Brian I think the question you're really asking is the one Tom already addressed which is we're going to reexamine where we are on share repurchases in the fourth quarter.
When we have something to announce we'll tell you then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the Esurance acquisition I assume you funded that with cash? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then the other one I just kind of wonder Tom could you talk about the competitive environment out there? Given we've gone through record catastrophe losses this year has it caused any -- I know in the homeowners line obviously people are committed to raising rates.
But in the auto insurance side have you seen it cause anybody to kind of step off the accelerator at all? No I have not seen -- I mean the 3 large competitors in auto insurance that we all spend a lot of time talking about called State Farm Progressive and GEICO are all continuing to be very aggressive in the auto business.
As you can see just watch some football game or baseball game and you can't kind of get away from us.
And so that continues to be highly competitive.
You're starting to see some other companies like USAA Farmers Nationwide step up a little bit.
Whether they can stay in the game as the advertising spend gets higher I'm not sure.
You're also starting to see the competition shift to new products.
We didn't talk much about it here but whether that's the telematics approaches or the products we've been launching.
So you're continuing to see pretty aggressive competition amongst those big carriers.
Brian I can't really speak to the smaller carriers in total.
But as you know they have about half the market.
And it doesn't look like they're all of a sudden taking prices increases way up but they're having an increasingly difficult time to compete on advertising and new products which probably means they'll keep their prices -- sort of try to be as competitive as they can on prices.
So I'm expecting that market to stay as competitive next year as it is this year But it's a market we think we can win in.
And we didn't have a great third quarter and new business for some things that happened earlier in the year but we feel good about what we've got going in the fourth quarter and as we head into next year.
Okay.
Thank you all for participating this quarter and we'll talk to you in 3 months.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Block you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning Tom Wilson Don Civgin and I will make a few opening remarks providing some context around our results for the fourth quarter and the year.
We will follow those remarks with a question-and-answer session.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A session will be Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Mark LaNeve Senior Executive Vice President of Agency Operations and Chief Marketing Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter Senior Executive Vice President Insurance Operations and President and Chief Executive Officer of Allstate Financial.
Yesterday following the close of the market we issued our press release and investor supplement for the fourth quarter 2011.
We also posted a slide presentation that will be used this morning.
You can find these documents on our website.
As noted on the first slide this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements.
So please refer to our form 10-K for 2010 Form 8-K filed June 1 2011 our 10-Q for the third quarter 2011 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
We expect to file our 10-K for 2011 by February 29.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
This call is being recorded and a replay will be available following the call.
I will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have once this call is completed.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom Wilson.
Tom? Good morning.
I'll begin by reviewing our strategy and operating commitments for 2011 then I'll compare this to our results and then discuss our 2012 priorities.
Bob and Don will then go through the underlying driver of our results.
Let's begin on Slide 2.
Our strategy is to sell unique protection products to distinct customer segments based on their preference for price service and delivery channel.
It's a long-term strategy designed to evolve with the changing marketplace and generate an operating return on equity of 13% by 2014.
Our 3 near-term priorities for 2011 were: maintaining margins in the auto insurance business at industry-leading levels; secondly improving returns in homeowners and Allstate Financial; and third aggressively managing our capital.
We're also hard at work on our longer-term initiatives to position our products and distribution platforms to meet the needs of our customers.
The chart on Slide 3 should be familiar to you.
It's assigned to insurance market based on customer preferences around interaction and brand preference.
Allstate does very well with customers in the lower left corner who prefer to get more advice and assistance with their insurance needs and value of brand.
We identified this group as personal touch loyalists.
These customers prefer to buy multiple products such as Allstate Financial or a broad array of property liability protection products.
This segment also has really good retention characteristics.
As you know we acquired Esurance in the fourth quarter to serve customers who prefer to do this themselves that's on the right side of the diagram.
We're repositioning the Allstate brand and leveraging our claim and product expertise to compete directly with GEICO and Progressive Direct.
We launched new Esurance advertising late in December and we're making good progress in supporting this new team.
In the upper left customers who want advice but are not as concerned about brand are served by Encompass.
We acquired this business in 1999 when it had a combined ratio of well over 100 and we successfully improved profitability which generated an attractive return on the acquisition price.
More recently this business has underperformed from a profit and growth standpoint.
So late last year we changed leadership and expect Encompass's results to improve.
If you turn to our financial results they're on Page 4.
For the year we had net income of $788 million and $689 million of operating income despite incurring $3.8 billion in catastrophe losses.
In the fourth quarter we generated $724 million in net income operating increased -- the operating income increased by $479 million to $750 million from the prior year as we experienced less catastrophe losses than in the prior year's quarter.
2011 was really -- was -- it had 2 distinct halves to it.
In the middle quarters of the year we incurred over $3.4 billion of catastrophe losses.
In those 6 months we had catastrophe losses that were more than 50% higher than we had in the entire 12 months of 2010.
In the first and fourth quarters catastrophe losses were more reasonable and we earned about $2.40 per share in operating income.
But through it all we just -- we kept our focus on executing our strategy which will drive long-term shareholder value.
If you look at our operating results in Property-Liability we maintained auto profitability with a combined ratio of 95.7 for the Allstate brand Standard Auto for 2011 compared to 95.5 for 2010.
For the fourth quarter the Allstate brand Standard Auto combined ratio was 95.5.
The combined ratio for Allstate brand Homeowners was 121.6 which included 50 points for those catastrophe losses which as I said were largely concentrated in the second and third quarters.
We did make progress in improving returns with the underlying combined ratio remember that's the combined ratio excluding cats and prior reserve releases was at 70.9 which is a 2-point improvement for the year.
The total underlying combined ratio was 89.3 for 2011 within the range of 88 to 91 we provided at the beginning of 2011 and essentially comparable to the number in 2010.
We also strengthened our agencies so they'll continue to serve our agencies well.
In 2011 the average size of Allstate agencies increased.
And most importantly the agency loyalty index which is our measure of how well those agencies serve their customers increased by almost 3 full points from 2010 and that's clearly a huge customer need and desire when you're looking at those personal touch loyalists.
We also introduced the Claim Satisfaction Guarantee and have now expanded that to over 30 states.
We launched Good Hands Roadside as a way for our consumers to try our service and have signed up 390 000 new members last year.
That's a unique offering in a marketplace.
Nobody else offers that.
And those results those customer account don't show up in our policy counts.
Allstate Financial had net income of $586 million for 2011 and $529 million in operating income which was 11% higher than 2010.
In the fourth quarter AF generated $140 million in net income and $138 million in operating income.
Both were significantly higher than the prior fourth quarter which of course is working on their goal of increasing returns on attributed equity.
Very important we also made great progress in executing the strategy to increase sales through Allstate agencies to those personal touch loyalists and shift the mix of business to underwritten products.
Our proactive management investments produced excellent results.
Overall portfolio yields were relatively unchanged from 2010 despite the low interest rate environment.
We remained long on corporate credit and further reduced our municipal bond exposure throughout the year.
Unrealized net capital gains in the portfolio increased by $428 million after tax from the end of 2010 even as we realized about $0.5 billion in pretax capital gains during the year.
From a capital perspective we returned almost $1.4 billion to shareholders in 2011 through both dividends and share repurchases.
We completed one share repurchase program and initiated another $1 billion program in November and we repurchased 4 million shares at a cost of a little over $100 million through the year-end.
Our book value per share increased to $36.92 which is 4.5% higher than December 2010.
Our strategy of operating unique products to different customer segments does differentiate us from our customers -- or competitors.
And so to further accelerate our success in that strategy we have a clear focus on what we need to do in 2012 and you can see that on Slide 5.
So we have to maintain profitability of our auto business.
We'll do this by making further improvements in New York and Florida being diligent about our costs and prices and providing Encompass and Esurance with the capabilities to improve their profitability.
Secondly we must continue to raise returns from the homeowners and annuity businesses.
At the same time we need to grow insurance premiums.
That means overcoming the negative impacts of improving results in those 2 big auto markets and in homeowners.
We're going to do that by raising customer loyalty growing a profitable auto and home markets making sure we keep average premiums headed up and increasing the number of multiline households.
Lastly we have to proactively manage our investments and capital to generate attractive but balanced returns for our shareholders.
So Bob will now go through the business unit details with little more specificity.
Thanks Tom.
Turning to Slide 6.
Property-Liability net premium written increased 2.9% to $6.4 billion in the fourth quarter and 0.3% for the year versus comparable periods in 2010.
Excluding Esurance the top line was flat with prior year for the quarter and down slightly for the year.
Allstate brand Standard Auto net premium written of $3.8 billion declined 0.8% in the quarter from the fourth quarter of 2010.
A decline in units was partially offset by an increase in average premium as profitability actions taken in Florida and New York negatively impacted the top line.
New business applications fell 14.3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Retention improved to 88.8 from 88.4 over comparable period in 2010.
Policies enforced fell 1.5% from year-end 2010 but were flat excluding Florida and New York.
The average gross premium increased in the quarter by 1.8% driven in part by the rate increases approved in Florida and New York.
Allstate brand homeowners net premium written grew 2.8% in the quarter as rate actions to improve profitability more than offset a reduction in units.
We received approval for rate increases in 17 states averaged -- averaging 7.8%.
For the year we averaged rate increases of 8.5% countrywide.
Our emerging businesses in Canada again contributed positively to the -- or contributed positive net premium written and unit growth in this quarter.
Encompass net premium written was flat to prior year in the fourth quarter after declining in each of the first 3 quarters of 2011 compared to the prior year.
Midway down this exhibit the combined ratio for Property-Liability was 90.7 in the fourth quarter compared to 100.8 in the fourth quarter 2010.
The improvement of 10.1 points was primarily due to reduced impact of catastrophe losses of 7.3 points fourth quarter 2011 versus fourth quarter 2010.
In the fourth quarter we recorded $216 million of current quarter losses offset by favorable reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses that occurred earlier in 2011 of $118 million and $32 million favorable reserve reestimates from prior year.
The underlying combined ratio for the fourth quarter 2011 was 90.5 an improvement from prior year of 1.5 points.
The underlying combined ratio for the year was 89.3 well within the range we provided at the beginning of 2011.
The next slide provides loss cost trends for Allstate brand Standard Auto.
On the left side of the slide we show the level of frequency for bodily injury and property damage.
2011 results are the black line and 2010 are in green.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 both coverages declined relative to the prior year quarter with BI falling 3.5% and PD declining 2.6%.
Rates have declined similar to the third quarter of 2011.
In the upper-right hand corner of the slide is a chart showing the percentage change for bodily injury and property damage paid severity.
In the fourth quarter 2011 bodily injury paid severity increased 1.9% and property damage paid severity increased by 5.8%.
Much of the property damage paid severity increase reflected the impacts from rising prices for parts and used cars.
For the year Allstate brand Standard Auto combined ratio was 95.7% 0.2-point increase from 2010 as shown in the graph at the lower right-hand corner of the slide.
With declining frequency essentially offsetting very modest increases in severity we were able to maintain auto profitability while gaining approval for rate increases of 4.6%.
We continue to focus on maintaining auto profitability.
On Slide 8 we have similar charts detailing loss cost trends for Allstate brand homeowners.
Frequency as shown in the upper left increased 4.5% but was partially offset by a decline in paid severity shown in the upper right.
Thus the increase in overall homeowner loss cost was less than the increase in earned premium.
For the year the underlying combined ratio improved by 2 points to 70.9% and we continue to take actions to improve the profitability of this line of insurance.
Looking forward as reflected in our press release we expect to produce an underlying Property-Liability combined ratio in the range of 88 to 91 for 2012.
Shifting to a discussion of Allstate Financial.
Slide 9 provides the results for total premiums and contract charges as well as the breakdown of income.
These reflect the ongoing progress with the Allstate Financial strategy to improve overall business returns while shifting the focus from the spread-based products to underwritten products.
Overall premiums in contract charges increased in the fourth quarter by 7.3% over the fourth quarter 2010 and we're up 3.2% year-over-year in volume of $2.2 billion.
The increase was in underwritten products and life-contingent annuities.
An important element of the strategic shift in product's mix is to drive greater participation in life and retirement sales by Allstate agencies.
In the fourth quarter 2011 insurance -- life insurance applications issued through Allstate agencies increased 43% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 a strong finish to the year where the increase was 33% over 2010's production level.
Allstate Financial produced net income of $140 million in the fourth quarter.
2011 is shown in the last line of this exhibit.
This was an increase of $64 million from prior year driven by increased operating income and capital gains realized in 2011 versus capital losses realized in 2010.
Operating income of $138 million increased $34 million from the fourth quarter 2010 primarily due to improvements in benefit spread and to a lesser extent investment spread.
The improvement in benefit spread relates primarily to Allstate Benefits and was driven by a $38 million pretax reserve release associated with contract modification better morbidity experienced and growth.
The improvement in investment spread reflects actions taken to reposition the investment portfolio as well as actions to lower crediting rates which more than offset the managed decline in spread-based business enforced.
For the year Allstate Financial produced net income of $586 million operating income of $529 million and a return on attributed capital of 8.2% on both on operating and net income basis.
The operating return increased 0.5 points and the net income return increased 7.2 points compared to 2010.
We've added an exhibit in the Investor Supplement this quarter which breaks down income attributed equity and operating returns by product to provide more transparency for Allstate Financial.
The value of the strategic shift to underwritten products becomes evident as these product groups generated higher returns than spread-based products.
We also intend to improve returns in the immediate annuity business by diversifying the portfolio through reducing the allocation to fixed income investments and increasing allocations to limited partnerships in alternative investments that are expected to generate increased realized and unrealized gains.
In 2012 we will adopt new deferred policy acquisition cost or DAC accounting guidance on a retrospective basis.
It is currently estimated to reduce shareholders' equity by $375 million after tax.
We estimate that the new guidance will reduce Allstate Financial net income by approximately $40 million for the year after tax.
We estimate that the new guidance will have an insignificant impact on Property-Liability net income.
Looking forward we will continue to execute on the strategy to shift the mix of business towards a more profitable underwritten products to generate improved returns in Allstate Financial.
And with that I'll turn it over to Don.
Thanks Bob.
Consistent with our past practice we continue to proactively manage risk and return within the portfolio with the focus on protecting value and delivering solid returns.
We continue to execute well as demonstrated by our results in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
On Slide 10 you can see our portfolio returned 6.6% for 2011.
Also on that slide you can see the size and composition of the overall portfolio of $95.6 billion at year-end 2011.
The decline from the third quarter 2011 was in line with our expectations as Allstate Financial continued its strategic reduction in spread-based liabilities including the voluntary winding down of Allstate Bank.
During the quarter we continue to reduced our exposure to the European Union while maintaining our allocation to corporate credit.
As shown on the right side of this page we continue to shift towards the middle portion of the interest rate curve by emphasizing our reinvestment activities in the 3- to 7-year maturities.
Maturities in the 3 year or less range are primarily within Allstate Financial and will be used to fund liabilities withdrawals.
Net investment income for the quarter was $975 million as shown on Slide 11 with a slight sequential decline driven primarily by lower portfolio balances at Allstate Financial.
Portfolio yields were stable despite the prolonged low interest rate environment with the total portfolio yield of 4.5% for the fourth quarter of 2011 consistent with the third quarter of 2011 and slightly higher than the 4.3% we have in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The stable yields reflect our yield-enhanced actions favorable limited partnership distributions and equity dividend but are offset by lower interest rates.
On Slide 12 you can see that we generated $86 million of pretax net realized capital gains in the fourth quarter down from $116 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Realized gains in the quarter were primarily due to sales of fixed-income securities and favorable limited partnership valuations partly offset by impairment write-downs and derivative valuation losses.
For the year pretax net realized capital gains were $503 million compared to 2010's net realized capital loss of $827 million.
The bottom of Slide 12 displays our pretax net unrealized capital gain position.
We finished the year with approximately $2.9 billion of net unrealized gains a $523 million improvement for the quarter and a $1.5 billion improvement for the year.
This year fixed income valuations benefited from lower interest rates which were only partially offset by widening credit spreads and realized gains due to sales of fixed income securities.
Moving on to Slide 13.
We finished 2011 with shareholders' equity of $18.7 billion an increase from September 2011 of $0.6 billion.
Statutory surplus at both AIC and Allstate Life Insurance remained strong and deployable assets at the holding company level totaled $2.2 billion at year-end reflecting the completion of the Esurance acquisition in October.
We initiated a $1 billion repurchase program in the fourth quarter and repurchased 4 million shares at a cost of $106 million under the new authorization by year-end.
Total shares repurchased for 2011 totaled $946 million.
We successfully prefunded $350 million of maturing senior notes with a $500 million 30-year senior unsecured note in early January with a 5.2% coupon.
Lastly book value per share ended the year at $36.92 an increase of $1.60 from year-end 2010 and an increase of $1.36 from the third quarter as well.
Now let's open it up to your questions.
Matt could you begin the Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Glasspiegel from Langen McAlenney.
On the homeowners I seem to be a little bit more excited about what's happening than you guys.
The quarter underlying improved by 4.4 points.
Third quarter was 1.7.
So you had 2-point improvement for the year but the fourth quarter seem to be better.
Was there something either seasonality or non-cat weather that overstated the improvement or is the mid-60s a good sort of run rate for underlying homeowners for 2012? Bob this is Tom.
I'd like -- I'd rather look at it on a year basis where -- which is better by 2 points.
In a quarter you obviously get impacts of weather but the other thing you get in a quarter is severity.
And with a large difference in coverages the amount of money you -- the average cost of the claim.
So average cost of fire claim might be $30 000 average cost of a theft claim might be $25 000.
So as you -- that mix changes the severity bounces around a lot from quarter-to-quarter.
So I think it's better to just look at it for the whole year.
We're -- I'm pleased with where we're headed in homeowners.
I don't think we've got it done yet but it's just another sign that we're continuing -- our programs are continuing to work.
Okay.
My follow-up.
I don't know that Gary is on the call or Don wants to address it but I'd love some more Esurance data sort of what the hit rate and response rate has been with the Allstate name.
I noticed the expense ratio went up by 10 points from where it was at White Mountains.
Is that average -- increased ad spin or accounting changes? We're going to do Esurance as we move throughout this year when we actually have time to own it.
We owned it for a couple of months.
And as you know we really did -- really launched a new program.
I think it was like December 26 or something like that.
So the increase is really due to intangibles.
And Don you might want to talk about what you're doing about the insurance accounting on the intangible side of it.
Yes.
So when we closed the transaction in October we completed the purchase accounting in accordance with GAAP which requires us to fair value the assets we acquired.
So we assigned about $353 million to intangibles.
These are mostly customer relationships trade names technology.
And we're going to amortize those over various periods depending on the asset but it -- there is going to be heavy amortization in the early periods.
We're excluding those from operating income combined ratio because they're noncash so they're not reflective of the ongoing economics of the business.
So we'll see those charges continue to go through.
But as Tom said we're making a lot of progress on Esurance and getting things going.
But really the marketing and the brand has only had a little bit of time to work and you really wouldn't have seen any of those results yet in the fourth quarter.
I don't think -- there was the 3:43 in the expense ratio.
I'll follow-up with Bob afterwards.
Our next question is from Dan Johnson from Citadel.
Great.
I have 2 please.
One Tom you've talked a bit over time about the progress so far and the plans in the future around driving more third-party participation in the homeowners product.
Can you talk a little bit more about an update there? And maybe Matt could also highlight to what extent we are doing the same thing in the life business and then I have a follow-up please.
Okay.
Dan the overall arching theme that -- you're correct what we've said is we can serve those personal touch loyalists completely without having to deploy our capital.
So our strategy of serving them doesn't necessarily have to be linked to where we deploy our capital.
We deploy our capital where we think we have skills and capabilities and where we think we can get a good return.
So in total we broker about -- a little over about $3.6 billion worth of stuff a year.
The largest portion of that is in Allstate Financial.
Matt can talk about what we do there where our skills and capabilities are and where we've grown it a lot this year and you'll see his strategy embedded in that.
In the Property-Liability subjects I think it's like $1.1 billion or something like that.
Most of that is homeowners or other property.
We continue to be able to provide that -- those products to our customers and broker it through other people.
We're actually restructuring some of those programs under Don Bailey so we think we can improve both the choices for our customers and our economics.
Matt you want to talk about...
Sure.
Dan so as Tom said we've had pretty much a relatively long history at Allstate Financial of making decisions about which products we choose to manufacture and which products we choose to source from other carriers knowing that we still had to provide a full suite of products for our distributors to be able to sell.
So that started really with the outsourcing on a major scale of the variable annuity business when that block of business was sold to Prudential.
And so right now we do just under $1 billion of premium and deposits in the VA business.
We do somewhere north of $400 million of mutual funds and about 140 000 -- I'm sorry $140 million on the book VA -- book value annuity.
So we made a decision about 2 years ago just after I got here to stop manufacturing the book value annuity.
We still manufacture the market value adjusted annuity.
But we made the decision to source somebody else's product there thinking that for us the risk return trade-off just didn't make sense.
So we have a fairly robust brokering operation through our broker dealer.
Now in addition to the major categories I mentioned we also sourced a long-term care some nonproprietary interest sensitive life a small amount of variable universal life.
But the major categories are the book value annuity the VA and mutual funds.
On both of these businesses are we expecting to -- meaning -- protection and life are we expecting a greater penetration of I guess outsourced capital usage this year? Well I think that as Tom mentioned on the homeowner's side we're taking a fairly granular look on a state-by-state basis of where it makes sense for us to manufacture that product and where it may make sense for us to use our Ivantage operation to source elsewhere.
And I don't want to try to predict where we'll go with that but it is our intention to offer the homeowner product -- a homeowner product to our customers in as many areas as possible.
And we'll choose based upon the individual economics whether or not that's a manufactured product or a sourced product.
Great.
So maybe just a real quick second question on the insurance.
The -- maybe if you could just lay out the parts that are being integrated and the parts that are specifically going to stay as freestanding as possible.
And you don't need a litany.
Just sort of interested more in things like sales versus claims versus advertising.
Just a high level of stuff how much this will be a stand-alone entity versus what parts you're trying to integrate.
Don will take you through some of the specifics Dan.
As you know we've kept it separate as an organization.
And you remember the benefits of the acquisition for us is leveraging our brand name that will help them; secondly improving their claim cost so reducing the variability of claim cost will enable us to improve profitability and put more money back in the business; and then broadening its product offering.
Don can talk about how we're getting those skills and capabilities into Esurance.
It's -- as Tom said I mean Dan we are running it as a separate company.
Their management team which we were and continue to be very excited about are running the business and they're all still there.
And Esurance is in San Francisco and Answer Financial is in Los Angeles so they will maintain their offices.
We have a lot of areas where can provide value to them and actually somewhere there we're learning from them as well.
So the integration teams which report actually at this point to Gary Tolman is more on a pull basis as Tom has said in the past.
So whether it's claims purchasing some product expansions some state expansions and how they are able to use -- utilize our brand to improve consideration for the Esurance brand are basically being driven by them.
We're providing whatever we can to make those things work well for them.
And I -- what I tell you at this point is that's where a lot of the values is going to come from.
It's going to be things like claims losses buying scale the additional products we're able to sell and obviously putting the Allstate endorsement on the Esurance brand so that their consideration and conversion will go up.
Some of those we're making huge progress on I feel very very good about.
So the claims losses and scale product we're working well and quickly on.
The Esurance Allstate endorsement really people just heard about it for the first time at the end of December with the new ad.
So that's going to take some time to drive up the retention and the conversion ratios.
We expect kind of aggressive improvements in that but it's really too early at this point to know how successful that has been or will be.
But we're -- it's -- it is being continued to run separately and effectively and we're just trying to add value where we can.
Our next question is from Alison Jacobowitz of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask 2.
One is about the expense ratio for the total company not specific to Esurance but that's been rising over the past couple of years and I was just wondering if you can put some color on that.
Do you expect that trend to continue? And the other is is if you might be able to give maybe a little more specific an update on the profit issues in Florida and if they're fully addressed and how that's doing? First on overall expenses.
We're always about trying to reduce our expenses so -- by line so when you look at whether it's our technology expenses or our processing or headcount we're always -- whether it's claims we're always working on making sure we have the right level of expenses.
Overall expenses were up some last year.
The largest real driver of it would be a little more marketing spend which we -- particularly in the fourth quarter if you noticed the expense ratio was up.
We've put a fair amount of money in terms of double-digit millions into launching Good Hands Roadside which as I've said is we got almost 400 000 new members.
Those are -- they don't pay us anything.
Remember that's -- you sign up for Roadside and it's pay-as-you-go when you need a tow or somebody to come to your car.
So we're very excited about that because we think it brings a lot of people into the company and gives us an opportunity to cross-sell them auto insurance and home insurance.
But we spent some money on that last year seeking to grow.
I think you'll continue to see some efforts on -- or some pressure on expenses as we both continue to advertise aggressively and as we invest more money in technology.
This business is rapidly becoming -- the technology's moving in -- out of sort of just the data management piece into the consumer connectivity piece.
And we all have some work to do on that piece.
Oh Florida sorry.
Florida and New York are a little better than they were in the third quarter as I said in the third quarter they were profitable depending on which bases you wanted to look at.
You go look at the exit your statutory GAAP they each had -- sort of had a measure under which they were profitable.
They got a little better in the fourth quarter and they're going to continue to get better as we move throughout 2012.
So they're out of the unprofitable zone not yet to where we want them to be in terms of adequate returns so you'll continue to see pressure on overall growth in the Standard Auto Allstate branded side because of New York and Florida.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I got 2 for you.
First one Tom you talked about increased marketing expenses and understand Florida and New York has caused some issues with PIP.
But I'm curious if you could talk about how you're going to drive increased new business apps x Florida and New York and how that's going to convert into PIP growth here going forward.
I want to be careful that I don't tell everybody else in the world what we're up to.
So -- but I appreciate the question Brian.
So just give me -- when you look at where we are in the rest of the country we've been flat in terms of items enforced and we've had a very good combined ratio.
So if you look at our combined ratio in total at 95.7 and then you assume we'd lose money or break even or something over the course of a whole year in New York and Florida in 2011 you'd say that it's obviously below 95 in those other places so that's a very high attractive return.
And so growing in those other markets is obviously a good thing for shareholder value.
We're focused on doing that.
There is -- one of the ways in which we believe we can do that is by broadening our risk appetite.
Still staying in-line with this our sophisticated pricing and not giving up large amounts of margin but we could let that combined ratio go up a little bit so we'd grow.
And as the Florida and New York combined ratio comes down and then you add in Esurance on top of that that's why when we'd look at the sort of underlying combined ratio we say it'll be relatively flat.
It's sort of a tale of 4 pieces right? Homeownership come down New York and Florida should come down.
You'll see a slight drift in these other places but those are bigger in terms of the overall volume of our combined ratio than either of the prior 2 pieces.
And then Esurance we'll put a little bit of pressure as we seek to invest and grow there and do more marketing.
We will do more marketing on a more targeted basis in 2012.
I know Mark if you want to talk about the marketing programs at all.
Yes over the last couple of years obviously the category has seen a dramatic increase in ad spend.
If you look at our share voice we've maintained -- we've basically spent in the marketplace over the last several years an amount adequate to maintain a share voice at approximately what our market share is or slightly above it.
One of the things we're -- with our strategy that Tom talked about where we're really focused in the Allstate brand on personal touch loyalists those customers that enjoy and respect an agency relationship.
By its very nature it tells you this is local so we are going to put more of our emphasis on local marketing next year.
We're going to ship some dollars from what would've been national spend plus some increased dollars into the local markets taking advantage of products like Claim Sat Guarantee where we can be -- where we've broaden our pricing target to open ourselves up to a wider group of customers making our marketing spend more effective.
And we've seen that we've had some success in the fourth quarter with those kinds of programs where we can really leverage the agents' efforts along with what we're doing locally.
And if utilized radio somewhat of an older medium very successfully in these markets.
So we think that we'll be able to keep pace and as Tom mentioned we've got real opportunities for growth in much of the country and we'll be focused on continuing what we're doing with Mayhem and our Dennis Haysbert campaign and then augmenting it with a strong local effort.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just one other quick one here.
Homeowners improvement the underlying I was wondering if you could drill down on that just a little bit more.
Can you talk a little bit about how much of that improvement is coming from price or rate versus some of the underwriting initiatives that you've implemented? And as we go forward look at your targets underlying combined how much of that is going to be rate versus underlying-underwriting initiatives? Brian most of it would be coming from rate at this point.
The underwriting initiatives take a lot longer to rail through.
So if you underwrite -- if the house isn't the right house you know how the right price for it because your roof is bad or the porch is falling off or something it doesn't necessarily turn into a loss obviously the next quarter.
So that will take longer to burn in.
It's incredibly important though to position in the long-term competitive position of business to get the right price for people.
So we're continuing at it we're putting a lot of effort on it but most of it's price.
And you'll see that as we go through next year as well.
So of the 7 points that we've put into average price this year you get a -- if you just think okay if we kind of do it equally throughout the year you get about half this year and half next year so we already have baked into next year about 3.5 points.
So what Matt and his team will do to get -- to continue to improve pricing and he's got it segmented into a bunch of different good segments which we can go into if someone in the call is interested.
But it is mostly price some of which is already there.
Our next question is from Michael Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to pricing.
It appears you've been pushing auto and home right increases above the national average.
Would you expect that trend to continue and can you comment on the competitive environment? And then I have a follow-up.
This is Tom.
I would -- in terms of auto I don't believe that's true.
So if -- New York and Florida obviously have some impact on our overall but if you just look at our average premium like it's -- it's up like 1% or something like that.
And if you look at average gross premium you look at the country you'd say it's probably in the 3% range.
It's what you see from people like triple-I [ph] and stuff.
So I don't believe we are -- I think we're competitive some places we'll do 5 or 7 or this place in New York or Florida will hit it as hard as we need to hit it but we feel like we're very competitive in the auto space.
Homeowners I believe we were way ahead of the market although I believe the market is catching up.
I can't really give you a sense for what everybody did in 2012.
I can tell you if you looked back -- if you look at the last 3 years in homeowners our average gross premium's up by $160 per policy which is about 18% or 19% over those 3 years.
When I look at the industry stats I don't see a number that big.
I do see a lot of people taking fairly big increases in the last year so my -- I suspect we were out early and other people are catching up.
So we're not seeing any competitive pressure in raising homeowner prices.
In total this point -- I'm sure Matt you have places some places where it's a little tougher than others but in general everybody has the same kind of losses we do.
Closing rates have stayed strong.
Yes.
Excellent point closing rates have stayed strong retention rates have stayed strong.
So we don't feel like we're out of the market on either of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then spread on the immediate fixed annuity book and I believe on the other annuity book too declined.
Is it fair to say that that'll continue to decline or I think in the prepared remarks you talked about maybe improving it with alternative investments.
Mike this is Matt.
So let me clarify.
The part that we're talking about changing the investment strategy a bit on are the payout annuities that are extremely long-duration very predictable cash flows that operate more like a pension liability.
And so we have decided to treat our investment portfolio on a more granular level.
And match the assets to that liability type in a more precise manner and so we're going to look at some alternative investments that don't have the same liquidity characteristics as maybe some of our other blocks of business have but they don't need those same liquidity characteristics.
So you'll see us start to use some of those alternative investments to create the higher yield long term the total return but maybe not on a pure year-by-year net investment income basis.
On the shore liability deferred annuity block that is a little less predictable cash flow and we require additional liquidity we're using the same leverage we've been using for the last several years.
We've been managing the crediting rate as carefully as we can consistent with our contractual terms and our compliance requirements.
We're also being as precise as we can with the asset liability management on that block as well and trying to match durations.
It is certainly challenging in the low interest rate environment but as you've seen this past year Judy's team has done an excellent job in getting those yields maintained.
And so I'm cautiously optimistic that we'll have continued progress there.
Our next question is from Keith Walsh from Citi.
Research Division</strong> First for Tom if you can just give us a little bit of more color behind the favorable reserve reestimate of $150 million please.
And then I've got a follow-up.
All right.
Are you talking about catastrophes or are you talking about other coverages? Research Division</strong> Just from the catastrophes in the press release on...
Yes well the catastrophe is obviously -- it's always hard to figure out exactly.
Some decent part that came from the Arizona hailstorm that we had last year when you're trying to figure out how many roofers are coming out there and you get a lot of light claims as people come back to their houses and stuff like that.
So as those types of events have become very situational and you have to just watch numbers we have a philosophy that we want to have enough money and not be short.
We don't over-reserve but -- so in that particular case we shot a little long.
And the rest are just a variety of small additional changes per catastrophe.
On the broader side of bodily injury and physical damage both reserves and trends we feel very good about reserves.
Bodily injury paid costs looked obviously very good if you look at our numbers.
The incurred costs are what we think the ultimates will be.
We're reserving a little bit higher level than that as you would expect because you have a lot of back-end stuff in the report year.
Which years you're paying off have an impact on the pay and so you get a little bit of a mix in there.
So we're -- the paid are lower as the percentage increased than what we're ultimately reserving for.
And then physical damage is pretty quick-- it kind of goes through.
We thought that physical damage popped in the fourth quarter and paid but mostly due to total losses.
We're on top of it.
For the year it looked okay but we're paying attention.
And that obviously the reserves you get those claims paid off well because it doesn't have a huge impact on reserves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for Matt on Allstate Financial.
And I think you guys have talked about in the past about freeing up about $1 billion of capital and we could see the business running down at least the fixed annuity $6 billion of contract holder funds reduced in 2011.
But the attributed equity is up year-over-year and can you just help me understand these moving parts I would have expected the equity dedicated to that business would actually be declining.
I'm trying to understand your question.
Can you just point me to where you're -- what you're looking at you in the investor sup.
Research Division</strong> Well I just -- within Allstate Financial on Page 34 of the supplement.
You guys gave us this new disclosure about the attributed equity to the life business.
And I'm just curious why that number's actually increasing year-over-year when I would think it would be going in the other direction.
We just didn't take any capital lot.
I mean the business is growing in -- and we're making profits in some capital intensive areas.
The RBC is up because of our -- some of our investment portfolio moves in order to keep the returns where they need to be in this environment.
And they are somewhat more capital intensive as we go from AAA corporates to some alternative investments and that's driving some increased capital.
Sam anything else? No those are the reasons.
Retention of profits we're not taking any capital out of the company at this point.
We still don't have any intention to take capital out -- you're really looking at sort of quarterly swings.
We don't -- on the RBC numbers you wait until the statutory stuff gets done.
That doesnt get done really until like February or March.
So we tend to let the capital in those subs ride until we get a better view of where they end up the year end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final one on AF.
With the $200 million decline in net investment income that you guys have in the presentation owing to the shrinking of the asset base is that sort of a good run rate to think about throughout 2012? Well it's always hard to predict those declines.
Some of it's predictable declines some is unpredictable and depends upon market movements.
We don't see anything that occurred in 2011 that's that different than 2012 other than the Allstate Bank.
And the decline in funds in Allstate Bank obviously happened in 2011 will not recur in 2012.
But other than that there should be fairly consistent flows.
Our next question is from Matthew Heimermann from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First just could you give us a little color and maybe outlook on the grow-to-win expenses just because of the $78 million you noted in the footnote of the supplement this quarter? I'm not -- Matt what does it -- what do you mean outlook on? Research Division</strong> Well just curious.
Should we think about that being expenditures on that? Was that kind of a onetime big big pop relative to what you'd normally expect on that endeavor? Or is that indicative of kind of what we should expect going forward? Yes some of it was onetime Matt some of it will be continuing.
Our grow-to-win was our effort to reengage the organization our agencies on growth.
Because earlier in the year we had not been completely engaging growth.
It included more advertising for auto insurance which as long as it's economical we'll continue to do that.
It included about $25 million for Good Hands Roadside a launch of that which I don't think will be continuing.
We want to find a way to continue to grow that business but I don't think we have to do it through national advertising the way we did to get it started.
And then there were some other things we did in terms of local promotions.
As long as those make money we'll do it but I would come back if you're concerned about the expense ratio.
We pay attention to expense ratio we make sure that every dollar we spend is economic and if it's economic then we make sure we can recover it in prices.
And when you look at our average pay pure premium which is of course just the total cost over time that looks balanced relative to the price increases we're taking.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And then just on the capital side just a little color on the decline in stat surplus at ALIC this quarter.
What factor drove that? And then also in your capital plans for 2012 you talked about a potential preferred issue.
Obviously you've taken care of the debt refunding you talked about so just curious to how to think about that and would be curious if earnings or capital ends up being a little bit better than we're expecting.
Is that something that is -- potentially could come off the table? And the last piece sounds like a third question so I'm not exactly sure but Don can talk about reserves and the debt.
I'm not sure -- if we don't get to your questions if there was a third question in there maybe we can come back to it so we can get to the other people but...
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify that last part was related just to saying with respect to the preferred when you're addressing it can you talk about whether or not that's an absolute plan or could be contingent upon how capital actually unfolds this year? Yes.
Okay okay I got it.
Sorry.
Actually on the Allstate life insurance statutory surplus it is down a little bit in the fourth quarter in spite of the fact that they had a good fourth quarter from an earnings point of view.
Most of that is because of reserve strengthening.
If you recall during the year we took a fair amount of games-taking in the portfolio and the reinvestment rates required some level of strengthening of reserves.
And then the other piece are just lower interest rates.
With rates being lower in 2011 it's -- in our testing required us to have more reserves up.
And as it relates to preferred just the efficient -- let's say belt suspenders and alternative plans.
So when we said we were going to do the $1 billion we knew we had additional share repurchase we knew we had $1 billion at least of excess capital at the holding company.
We knew we would make money in 2012 and -- but we didn't want there to be any doubt that we could buy that $1 billion back so we put in the authorization to do the preferred.
And we'll do it if we think it makes sense and depends what earnings are but we fully intend to buy back the $1 billion worth of stock.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just maybe if you could give us some supplementary information on the Esurance and how you're accounting go-forward might contrast with the historical that'd be great too.
Just...
Yes we'll do that.
And we're going to figure out how to help you see what we see on Esurance.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First can you give us your thoughts on marketing and advertising spending for 2012 and how that will compare to 2011? And then if we could get some insight on the impact of persistent low interest rates in the life insurance businesses with the life currently running around the 8% return on equity for the full year how much of the headwind will low rates be going forward? Let me take the first one.
Judy maybe you can talk about reinvestment and Matt you talk about it  -- because I think the numbers Jay are off a little.
If you look at I think it's Page 37 38 we've broken out the life insurance -- Allstate Financial returns it's a different bucket so the 8% is not a number that resonates with me.
That's what the deferred annuities are running at but the life insurance business is low is like 11% or something.
And so you got to look at the components of it.
In terms of marketing advertising we expect to maintain our share voice in the Allstate brand and we expect to increase our share voice in the Esurance brand.
And I think that's about where I'd like to leave it since other people listen to the call.
And I don't want them to know sort of what kind of marketing we're doing.
Matt do you guys want...
I'll start and then Judy can follow up.
I think Tom was referring to the breakdown we have now on Page 39 of the Investors sup which Jay shows the breakdown of operating income return on attributed equity.
So really the low interest rate environment affects the life insurance very little.
It only affects some of the components of our Universal Life business with long-term guarantees and those products that are similar to that it really doesn't impact the term business which is really the vast majority of what we're growing right now.
And if you look even on that breakdown under annuities most of the work that we just described about the alternative investments on the payout annuity line is designed to prevent that low interest rate environment from taking that ROE down even further.
So really it's only leaving us with that deferred annuity block where we're making 8.7 and that's running off on a fairly predictable basis and we're managing the in-force crediting rates very aggressively there.
So yes it's a headwind on the work we're doing but we don't think it's a long-term obstacle to it.
It just creates some more work for us and we have to get more creative in the way we manage the investment portfolio.
But as I said we feel pretty confident that with the change in the mix of business and growing the mortality and morbidity nonspread related businesses as well as the alternative kind of pension investment strategy for long-term liabilities on the payout side.
It leaves us with a manageable block to deal with to give some targeted good return investment assets too.
And I'll let Judy follow up and talk a little bit more about that component.
So as we've said earlier on the call we have a fairly manageable reinvest for ALIC.
We've done a pretty good job of matching the assets to the liabilities so when we look at those contract holder funds that are going to be running off it pretty much lines up with the maturities that we have in the portfolio.
We still have a large portfolio that we're managing through a low rate environment and we do several things to optimize that portfolio given the liabilities.
And Matt talked about one with the payout annuities where we're recognizing that the liabilities are very long and we want to put an asset strategy against those types of liabilities but isn't necessarily as fixed income-oriented as it has been in the past.
Our next question is from Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups in the frequency area.
One's on auto one's on home.
On auto just there was a question on pricing earlier and auto accident frequency has been favorable for Allstate and I think some other auto insurers.
So is that -- I mean definitely should we worry about and from a pricing perspective in your ability to get price going forward? Randy this is Tom.
If you look at our total frequency decline you'd have to look at it in 2 chunks.
New York and Florida and then outside of New York and Florida.
The largest component of our overall decline is in those 2 first states which is both we've talked about one of the things we're doing to improve profitability.
It is down slightly in the other states but it's slightly -- and we don't see that as a problem in terms of having reduced rates and nor does it look like it's -- it bounces around though.
I mean the reason we give you all a range on combined ratio is frequency can move by 1 point in a year and it's kind of sometimes it's weather sometimes it's mileage sometimes it just -- things happen.
So it -- there is some variability around it but we feel okay about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the homeowner side the xCAT frequency was up for the second quarter on a linked basis and so it looks like a little bit higher trend.
Is there anything driving that or is that just kind of year-over-year comparison as to when the severity -- I'm sorry the frequency was lower? I would -- when you look at homeowner frequency there are -- I would say no.
I think we're -- we feel like -- I mean it varies by state.
As you know some states we don't have -- some states we have severe weather problems we've got to get more price to that.
In some places we have hurricane exposure we got to make progress here.
Other states we have absolutely no problems at all and we should be growing and we're not.
And then some states we have what I would call normal frequency and severity issues where we have some progress right.
Matt and his team have segmented it into those 4 segments but we're managing in that way and so I feel comfortable that the way in which we're approaching the business any trends in those 4 categories get reflected in the prices in those states.
Maybe we could take one last question.
Our final question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> You talked a lot about the changes in the homeowners line you've obviously done some really good work there.
What inning do you think you're in is this a 2- 3- 4-year process I guess where we at right now? Some of my compatriots like to predict innings.
I've always felt that's a bad thing because I can't predict the future.
I would tell you if you look back over the last 3 years we've made a tremendous amount of progress and we accelerated that progress I believe last year.
And particularly it's not necessarily on price but on the other things we will do.
The next inning for us which will be an important one is launching a new product called house and home which will deal with roof losses.
So when you look at all the work we've done it's working with our existing contracts and raising prices trying to get the risk management right.
And we're good at that and we've made a lot of -- we've had a lot of learnings over the last 3 years and I feel like that game will continue to play out the next I don't know if it's an inning but the next thing we have to successfully accomplish is rolling out house and home and Matt and Mark are working on that.
What that does is it deals with roofs differently.
So one of the big losses in severe weather are roofs.
Some people just don't get their house -- their roofs fixed and then a hailstorm comes and we replace a $20 000 roof when we're getting $1 000 from the customer and it's obviously not a good trade.
And so if the roof is 1 year old it might have no damage to it and $900 is the right price if the roof is 20 years old then maybe we should be charging $2 000 or $3 000.
So this new product gives us the opportunity to deal with roofs differently.
That's really the next game and that will need to successfully accomplish that to get to our 13% return on equity by 2014.
Matt there are more...
No the only thing I would add the other piece of that as Tom mentioned at the beginning is the decision on a granular level about selective brokering of other homeowner products in there.
Because as we've now characterized the states into these categories of PML PML in severe weather and our ability to grow and successfully manufacture products for those states we'll make decisions about whether they'll offer house and home or whether they'll offer a brokered product in there so our agents have a homeowners product to offer their clients.
And we have the risk profile that we want as a company in the homeowners area.
Okay.
Thank you all very much.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today for Allstate's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
We'll begin this morning with some prepared remarks from Tom Wilson Steven Shebik and me.
Following that we will open it up for your questions.
Joining us for the Q&amp;A session are Don Civgin Head of Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter Head of Auto Home and Agencies.
Late yesterday we issued our press release and investor supplement as well as our 10-Q for the first quarter of 2012.
We also posted a slide presentation which will be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
As noted in our press release and 10-Q Allstate adopted new deferred acquisition cost accounting guidance on a retrospective basis as of January 1 2012.
Accordingly all prior period balances have been adjusted.
The DAC and shareholders' equity balances were reduced by $572 million and $376 million respectively when compared to the previously reported December 31 2011 balances.
We filed an 8-K yesterday reflecting these adjustments and we added a few pages in our investor supplement that have details on the adjustments.
All of these documents can be accessed from our website.
Referring to the first slide of the presentation this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements.
So please refer to our 10-K for 2011 our 10-Q for the first quarter 2012 our 8-Ks filed yesterday in May 2 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
This discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
As always I'll be available after this call to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Now let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Good morning and thank you for joining us on what I know is a very busy day for you.
I'll cover our performance relative to our 2012 priorities.
Within the context of our overall strategy Bob and Steve will follow with more details on the drivers of our results.
If you go to Slide 2 our strategy is to sell unique protection products to different customer segments.
The left side prefers the personal assistance of a local agent whereas the right side is very comfortable purchasing directly from a call center or over the Web.
So lower segments -- the segments on the lower half of the grid are less price sensitive than the upper half.
So we serve all 4 segments of customers.
Our 2012 priorities are to maintain auto profitability to raise returns in homeowners and the annuity businesses to grow insurance premiums and to proactively manage our investments and capital.
So this strategy and those 2012 priorities are designed to enable us to achieve the goal of producing operating return on equity of 13% by 2014.
Turning to Slide 3.
It was a good start for 2012 with strong financial results for the first quarter.
On a consolidated basis we generated net income of $766 million.
It was an increase over the prior year first quarter of 46% and it was driven primarily by improvements in operating results.
On an operating income basis we increased almost 44% to $710 million or $1.42 per diluted share.
The underlying Property-Liability combined ratio for the quarter was 88.1 which is 1.8 points better than Q1 of 2011.
Now we made progress in each of our priority areas.
We maintained auto profitability in the first quarter with the Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio of 95.2 an increase of 0.2 points compared to Q1 of 2011.
Now there's some pressure on the cost side of business which we're addressing to protect our margins.
We continue to improve returns in homeowners with an underlying combined ratio for the Allstate brand of 67 which is 7 points better than the first quarter of last year and essentially equal to the fourth quarter of last year.
We remain focused on our profit improvement actions in this line as continued improvement is a critical component to achieving the goal of 13% operating ROE by 2014.
Allstate Financial's operating income was up largely based on higher partnership income.
While we made some improvement in returns on the annuity business due to higher partnership income the low interest rate environment continues to be a challenge for us in raising returns in that business.
Overall premiums increased reflecting the acquisition of Esurance higher average homeowner premiums and growth in the emerging businesses.
Esurance's policies in force grew in the first quarter from the year-end 2011 as benefits of our new marketing programs begin to be realized.
We did have an expected reduction in auto policies and Allstate Agency channel reflecting profit improvement actions in the auto line in Florida and New York and the impact of raising homeowner prices for multi-line customers.
Our investment results were very good despite the challenging interest rate environment.
Finally from a capital management perspective we raised the dividend and repurchased $300 million from the current stock buyback authorization.
Our book value per share increased 8% and 6.6% from the first quarter of 2011 and year-end 2011 respectively.
So now Bob and Steve will provide more details on our results for the quarter.
Turning to Slide 4 we show our top and bottom line results for Property-Liability.
Overall the results were mixed for growth but profitability was strong.
Property-Liability net written premium of $6.46 billion grew 4% versus the first quarter of 2011 due primarily to the acquisition of Esurance which grew net premiums and policies in force as expected.
Allstate brand standard auto net written premium of $3.9 billion declined 1.2% from the first quarter of 2011 as auto profitability actions in New York and Florida and higher homeowner prices hampered growth.
Unit growth also declined from prior year.
The volume of new issued applications was comparable to each of the last 3 quarters but did decline 10.8% from the first quarter of 2011.
Average premium on a gross written basis increased 1.8% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
We received approval for rate changes in 10 states averaging 5.8% in those states.
Retention ratio at 88.7 was down slightly from prior year driven primarily by Florida and New York.
The balance of the country experienced an increase in retention from the first quarter of 2011.
Allstate brand homeowners net written premium grew 2.7% from the first quarter of 2011 as rate actions designed to improve profitability continue to more than offset the reduction in units.
We received approval for rate changes in 13 states averaging 7.9% in those states or 2% on a countrywide basis.
For the quarter net written premium for Allstate brand emerging businesses Encompass and Esurance all positively contributed to the top line.
We also experienced favorable sequential unit growth in our Canadian operations Encompass and Esurance.
Moving to the bottom half of the slide the combined ratio for Property-Liability was 92.1 an improvement from the first quarter of 2011 of 2.8 points.
The underlying Property-Liability combined ratio was 88.1 1.8 points better than prior year and well within the annual range we provided earlier this year.
The next slide provides the loss trends in rate actions for the Allstate brand standard auto.
On the top half of the slide are the gross frequency and paid severity trends for bodily injury and property damage coverages which account for about 45% of the incurred losses for Allstate brand standard auto.
For the first quarter of 2012 both bodily injury and property damage frequencies improved relative to the prior year for the fourth consecutive quarter.
While bodily injury and property damage paid severities were above prior year for the first quarter the increase moderated relative to the fourth quarter 2011.
In the lower left-hand corner of the slide we added a chart on approved rate changes.
For Allstate brand standard auto we averaged about 4% increase over the last 4 quarters a pace which has kept the combined ratio relatively level.
In the lower right-hand corner we provided the combined ratio results for the last few years.
In the first quarter of 2012 the combined ratio was 95.2 for Allstate brand standard auto an increase from prior year of 0.2 points.
Breaking the combined ratio apart the loss ratio for the Allstate brand standard auto improved by 0.7 points compared to prior year's first quarter while the underwriting expense ratio increased by 0.9 points.
On an underlying combined ratio basis the results for the first quarter were essentially flat with prior year.
We remain vigilant in our efforts to maintain auto margins.
On Slide 6 we display similar charts detailing approved rate changes and loss trends for Allstate brand homeowners.
We continue to gain approval for rate changes in the 8% to 9% range countrywide.
The chart in the upper right-hand corner provides the trends for loss cost excluding catastrophes.
Frequency results for the first quarter of 2012 were below prior year while paid severity was flat.
The rate actions we have taken coupled with the moderating loss cost trends produced an underlying combined ratio of 67.0 an improvement of 7 points from the first quarter of 2011.
On a reported basis the combined ratio for the quarter was 80.2 11.2 points better than prior year reflecting the improvement in the underlying combined ratio and lower catastrophe losses in the first quarter of 2012 versus the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to focus on raising returns in this business.
Shifting the focus to Allstate Financial on Slide 7 we provide results for the top line the bottom line and returns by product.
The results for the first quarter continue to reflect progress towards improving overall returns while shifting our focus to underwritten products.
While total premiums and contract charges declined for the quarter premiums and contract charges for underwritten products increased 3.5% to $535 million compared to the prior year.
Allstate Agencies continue to generate strong growth over prior year with a 16% increase in issued life insurance policies.
We recorded operating income of $150 million an increase of $37 million from prior year.
The increase in operating income included a $39 million after-tax benefit from a classification of equity method limited partnership income as net investment income in 2012.
Allstate Financial reported net income for the first quarter of 200 -- or excuse me $112 million up $10 million from the first quarter of 2011.
The increase resulted from an improvement in operating income in the absence of a loss on the wind-down of the Allstate Bank in 2011 partially offset by current year realized capital losses compared to realized capital gains in the prior year.
Operating income return on attributed equity of 8.8% improved 0.5 points from the fourth quarter of 2011 with life insurance at 11.3% return while accident and health insurance provided a 15.5% return.
The favorable movement in the return for immediate annuities was driven primarily by the reclassification of equity method limited partnership income and is consistent with our previously disclosed intent to change our asset allocation for long-term immediate annuities.
This shift may result in more volatile investment income but should lead to higher total returns.
Now I'll turn it over to Steve Shebik.
Thanks Bob.
We continue to proactively manage the investment portfolio supporting our key objective of managing investment yields and creating value.
On Slide 8 you can see the size and composition of our overall portfolio.
Improved fixed income and equity valuations along with a positive cash flow from our Property-Liability business more than offset the expected reduction of Allstate Financial's spread-based liabilities raising the portfolio valuation to $97 billion at quarter end.
Our portfolio actions during the first quarter continue to optimize our fixed income portfolio's position on the yield curve shifting out of longer-term municipal bonds and shorter-term lower yielding treasuries into intermediate-term investment grade corporate bonds.
Additionally we shifted from public equity holdings to high yield corporate bonds.
These actions benefited us as credit spreads narrowed improving fixed income valuations and also supported our average fixed income portfolio yield.
Slide 9 highlights the portfolio income in yield trend.
As Bob mentioned we made a prospective change this quarter to classify our equity method limited partnership results in net investment income.
We believe that this presentation will closely align the results of our expanding strategies in alternative investments and private asset ownership with the liabilities they support.
Including the effects of this change net investment income for the first quarter was $1 011 000 000 and the total portfolio yield was 4.6% with both measures increasing compared to the prior year quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011.
If the results of these limited partnerships had not been reclassified net investment income would have been $915 million or $67 million less than the first quarter of 2011 driven by the expected reduction in Allstate Financial liabilities.
The total portfolio yield would have been 4.3% consistent with prior year's first quarter but lower than the fourth quarter of 2011.
On Slide 10 you can see we realized gains of $168 million in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of $72 million compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Realized gains in the quarter were primarily from the sale of public equities.
Our impairment losses were the lowest recorded since the third quarter of 2007.
Derivative results also improved reflecting a reduced usage of derivatives to manage rate risk and favorable results with respect to our credit position.
Finally moving on to Slide 11 we finished the first quarter of 2012 with $19.2 billion in shareholders' equity an increase of approximately $900 million from year-end 2011.
Statutory surplus for both Property-Liability and like remained strong and deployable asset at the holding company level increased to $2.7 billion at quarter's end.
We continued to buy back our stock during the first quarter repurchasing shares worth $300 million.
We now have repurchased $406 million of our $1 billion authorization.
We also raised the first quarter dividend at the February board meeting.
As Tom mentioned our book value per share rose to $38.57 a new high for Allstate 6.6% above year-end 2011.
Now let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on ad spend and Esurance in particular.
How are you thinking about advertising there? And is the first quarter kind of an indication whether from a dollars perspective or a kind of combined ratio perspective how you're thinking about Esurance? And just one follow-up.
Michael this is Tom.
The -- Don might want to make a comment about the first quarter seasonality Esurance but let me give you some perspective on sort of how we allocate resources.
Each brand stands on its own.
So the advertising for the Allstate brand is separate and distinct and we'll invest whatever we need to do to keep that brand strong and that business growing.
The same is true for Esurance.
So we look at the economics of those in total.
We do not put those together and have a total ad spend budget.
We do what we think makes sense.
Obviously we launched a new program in December of last year with Esurance.
And along with that we increased our ad spend and we like what the have there.
Don you might want to talk a little bit about just first quarter results on Esurance.
Yes.
The -- first of all Esurance does have a more seasonal business than Allstate and so their first quarter spend tends to be higher.
We spend about $45 million in advertising in the first quarter and we did that as -- partially as Tom said because the launch of the new campaign the rebranding of Esurance we wanted to get some weight behind it.
I'm happy to say it's working as well as we expected it to.
So we're seeing good response rates good customer mix changes conversion ratio is improving as we would have expected.
So I think as Tom said we'll continue to spend money so long as it's economic to do so.
And at the moment it feels like we're spending the right amount subject to the seasonality of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on Answer Financial where does that roll into the financial? Is that in other or does that roll into a fee line somewhere? I just wanted to get an idea of where that was and kind of what the magnitude and kind of year-over-year change there was.
The year-over-year change is minimal but it's actually very small.
But it rolls up into other.
So it's not under Esurance.
Research Division</strong> It's in the other line.
Okay great.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Underlying combined ratio in home high 60s past 2 quarters.
I think that's relative to your longer-term goal of low 60s.
So we're not that far away.
Would you say the -- you're making progress ahead of plan? Or has the driver just been more benign catastrophe losses the past 2 quarters? Yes.
Mike this is Matt.
I'll try to answer that for you.
We had some great product and profit improvement in that line.
I'd say about 60% of it was temporary and 40% sustainable.
So a large portion was cats and weather x cats.
But a significant portion was rates inspections correct class actions the nonrenewal actions and the blocking and tackling that's been done.
So I think we're -- I wouldn't say we're ahead of plan or behind plan.
I think we are making significant progress about where we thought we'd be and we feel confident that we're doing the type of fundamental steps necessary to improve the long-term profitability on the business.
And we continue a plan that includes rollout of a new homeowners product house and home that helps us deal with roof costs specifically.
There is some pressure from pricing on roofing.
Roof prices fell 2 years in a row from 2008 but had their first increase of 12% in 2011.
So we know we have to get out in front of that and we are with our new product.
So we feel pretty confident that fundamentals have helped us dramatically but it's no denying the fact that first quarter was helped also significantly by just the lack of cats and the weather x cats.
Research Division</strong> So the 40% was sustainable then.
So should we continue to expect high single-digit rate increases in home going to the back half of the year? I think that's an acceptable range to think about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on auto.
Can you talk about the competitive environment in auto? And can you also comment on the knock-on effect raising home insurance rates is having on the PIF there? Sure.
Well obviously there is an impact of taking homeowners rate actions on not only home but also on our auto customers and our PIF.
We're also in places where it's necessary taking rate actions on the auto side which is compounding that.
So when you combine the 2 it's having what I'd say is a chilling effect on our ability to grow PIF right now as we have a core focus on the profitability side.
We feel like that's the right balance right now.
We believe that growth in the absence of profitability is the wrong strategy.
And so we're pretty disciplined right now as far as focusing on getting rate adequate both in homeowners and auto and accepting but not liking the fact that it can impact our ability to grow.
The competitive environment is interesting.
I think some of the multi-line companies are now raising their homeowners rates a little later than I think we did in some -- a few early adopters.
So my expectation is that we will no longer be alone in the marketplace taking rate that -- now that many of our competitors even though you may think of them as auto-only competitors they're offering nonproprietary homeowners products in an attempt to bundle.
So even those traditional auto-only companies are getting some of these collateral impact on the raising of homeowners rates.
And that's especially true for that market segment the personal touch loyalists who prefer to bundle their products and aren't looking for independent providers of their individual insurance products.
Can I -- let me add to that.
I think as you're thinking about growth really should start with looking at a different customer segments begin the analysis there then drop into products.
So as Matt just said the Allstate Agency service those people who want local advice assistance want branded products by bundles like bundled product.
And so when you're looking at the efforts to maintain homeowner returns at the same time you try to grow your auto business and obviously compound that.
And of course we have our issues in New York and Florida.
If you look at Esurance on the other hand that's the self-serve side of that matrix.
You can see that Esurance is growing and competing effectively with GEICO and Progressive.
And then if you look on the Encompass side that was -- we will not turn that business.
They've gotten a lot smaller.
That was really our issue.
We've changed leadership.
I don't think we've got it all in the right -- it's headed in the right direction but we don't have it fixed yet.
So I think really as we're thinking about growth in the future it's helpful to set that in the context the way Matt did of who are the customer groups that you're serving and how do you grow within that customer group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- sorry real quickly.
So in terms of Matt said taking rate actions in auto there's this chart on Slide 5 that shows about 4% rate changes.
And then how do I reconcile that with -- in the supplement Page 18 it shows about 5.5% rate increases in auto.
I think the -- on Slide 5 you're talking about approved rate changes.
And I think in the supplement it's what's been earned in? No.
The difference is the 5.8% -- this is Bob -- that you see in the supplement that's where the -- that's the average of the rates taken in the state specific.
What's on the chart is the 4 quarter moving countrywide impact of rates.
So they're 2 different numbers.
Research Division</strong> So would the supplement be kind of a more leading indicator that you're accelerating? No.
If you took the 4 quarters of the supplement for the countrywide you'd get the 4%.
And add them up you'd get close to 4%.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
On the auto I thought the frequency and the severity trends in total were quite benign.
And with Progressive's commentary and GEICO reporting over 100 there's some nervousness about what's going on in auto.
I mean you've been reporting steady 7 to 8 points better than the industry auto underwriting and contracting.
I'm just trying to understand the difference between what you're seeing and they're seeing.
I'm wondering if the fact that they're growing much more rapidly and you're contracting could be feeding into it.
Bob this is Tom.
It's hard to comment on what other people's results are.
I mean obviously I think Progressive got hit with some reserve changes that they had to make down in Florida.
I can't speak to GEICO since they're not -- they don't publicly disclose all the stuff that you can really go over.
I would say when you look at our practices in auto insurance we pay attention to it at a very local level.
We have good operating discipline around it.
We're watching the trends.
You see that the countrywide ones the frequency is down but a lot of frequency is down because of New York and Florida.
So we're looking at a level below that.
Matt and his team are on top of that so they have a number of places where they are managing rate.
That's why you see some -- 10 states had some increases.
So we believe in small frequent adjustments rather than large and infrequent in terms of managing our business from a customer standpoint.
Okay.
Just a bookkeeping question.
You have $4.6 billion of limited partnerships.
What's the amount of that that's impacted by the EMA geography change? About 60% of that is impacted by the EMA.
I think it's about $2.5 billion.
And the split between PC and life of those 2? PC is about 2/3 life is about 1/3.
You can see that in the underlying numbers.
In the 10-Q we have those splits.
PC is bigger? PC is bigger.
Yes.
The next question is from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the policy count to client in homeowners it was negative $110 000.
And I want to know where are you in reshaping the homeowners portfolio through risk management and price increases? How many years until we get to stability? And I also noticed that the decline in auto was a little higher but about the same.
Is it possible that Allstate's begun to grow in unbundled homeowners policies? Josh you broke up on a few of those but -- so -- but I think we got it.
Matt do you want to...
Yes I think I heard enough.
If I start answering a different question than you asked please [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> I can ask again if you want.
Look you guys can take it for what you want and I'll steer you if I get misdirected.
Okay good.
Okay.
Now I lost my train of thought on what your original question of the...
Research Division</strong> Homeowners reshaping the portfolio where are we in the long-term process? And are you growing in unbundled auto at this time? Okay.
So I don't think it's prudent for me to guess a percentage of how far we are along in our path.
I would say we've made significant progress in taking a look at our homeowners offerings on a state-by-state and region-by-region and even locality basis to determine where we believe we have long-term prospects of making an acceptable return for the acceptable level of risk.
And we began that process and have done a great deal of work there.
As a result we're making decisions about those areas where we will begin offering nonproprietary homeowners products and brokering products so that we can serve our customers with a complete portfolio but not necessarily always with an Allstate-branded product.
And so we are doing a fair amount of work in our brokering operation and on our E&amp;S segment to take a look at more I'd say more of a refined view of looking at our markets and determining what product should be offered where.
That takes some time.
It takes some time to build up the brokering capability to build up the linkages from a technology standpoint so we can serve those customers the same way we would serve customers with our Allstate-branded product.
And we are I think making excellent progress there.
To your unbundled question look homeowners is often the lead product in our marketplaces.
In some areas it is their #1 go-to customer product and then they follow with auto.
It is possible that we are seeing some areas where they're getting homeowners products and for whatever reason we do not then get to follow on auto.
But our focus and our incentives and our goal is to provide a bundled product offering deep relationship with multi-products to our customers so they can get the true full value of working with an Allstate agent.
Josh this is Tom.
Maybe to give you a little longer-term perspective too.
In 2005 I think it was after Katrina we looked and said "Should we get out of the business?" And we broke it into 3 buckets: one was make it cats hurricanes and earthquakes; two was non-model cats; and three was just sort of the normal slip fall low severity high-frequency events.
And so we went off at all -- we went at all 3 of those components.
We went first at the cat thing.
I would say we made tremendous progress here and we're pretty close to being where we want to be.
But there are a few states where we still got some more work to do.
But we like what we've done in Florida what we've done around the coast.
We're down over 1 million policies in homeowners as a result of many of those changes.
The second piece was non-model cats.
That's the part that popped really in '08 '09 '10 and '11.
And as Matt said we've been hard at work on that for the last 3 years and I totally agree that it's hard to predict when that one will be done because you got to figure out what the weather will be in the future.
And then the third piece was just the normal slips and falls.
And we got a little behind in '08 '09 as cost increases due to commodity prices and oil prices spiking in those periods.
Our actual underlying severities on non-catastrophe-related stuff went up.
So I feel like we've made a lot of progress on that piece too.
So I would say #1 and #3 we're pretty far along and #2 a little harder to sort out.
About 75% or so of our homeowners business that's written comes with another product.
So we're not there.
That said we'd like -- as Matt said we'd like it to be a lead line.
When Matt and his team get this -- get house and home rolled out get the pricing right we believe that being a provider of a wide variety of products for that personal touch loyalist customer who likes to bundle stuff will be a competitive advantage for us.
Research Division</strong> And quickly on Florida and New York.
The loss ratios were off the charts.
Have you overshot the mark in terms of your -- trying to get profits out of there at the expense of new customers? No I don't believe we've overshot the mark.
I think that those 2 markets are obviously extremely volatile and extremely difficult.
We have challenges there on the regulatory and legislative side.
We have some challenges in some of the PIF trends.
We've taken firm and decisive action there.
I do not believe we've overreacted there.
We're trying to reposition and stabilize and ensure that when we begin growing that it is all profitable growth.
And so I actually think the team and the agents in those 2 regions have done exceptionally well in managing through very difficult circumstances and still maintaining good customer relationships and good customer satisfaction.
So I don't feel like we've overshot the target.
I think that we're -- we've hit pretty much a bull's-eye on both of those and we'll continue our efforts in a careful disciplined way.
And there were some reserve changes too.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk about -- excuse me 2 issues first in Allstate brand standard auto have.
How much time do you think it will take to turn the corner to get to flat on PIF? And then my second question is on Esurance with the 128 combined ratio and about a $50 million underwriting loss.
I'm just trying to get a sense of when you feel we might see signs of improvement there and maybe even heading towards breakeven on the underwriting front.
Jay we don't want to do forecast of growth so we're working our way through it.
Unfortunately I'm not going to give an answer on when we expect that to turn but we are obviously hard at work.
Matt's team segment said we do provide some information on where we're growing outside of areas where we have big challenges like New York and Florida.
On Esurance there's a bunch of our purchase accounting stuff in there so the combined ratio is really 106 when you strip out all the other stuff.
And we do provide -- we added a new sheet to the investor supplement which has the loss ratio in it which should be able to give you the -- a bill which is Page 26.
And you can -- we show in there the loss ratio and you can see the loss ratio is down at 73.
And then you can look at the -- what we spend in marketing and you could do some estimates.
We do that so that you can see that we believe this is -- we're riding it at an economic rate that we're not just growing and funding by giving the business away.
Research Division</strong> How long does that amortization expense continue on the Esurance business? Less than 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the PIF I understand where you're coming from.
Can you -- I don't know if you disclosed what the auto -- Allstate brand standard auto PIF change would have been say x New York and Florida or x the underwriting actions taken in homeowners.
You can see the first piece you can't see the second piece.
But you should assume that Matt has depth and understanding behind his comment that in those places where we take homeowner rates above 10% we have growth challenges in those places where it's less than 10% and we feel pretty good about our business.
Yes the only thing I'd add Jay is it gets lost here but we did grow auto at year-over-year first quarter in 24 states.
So a lot of what you see is an aggregation driven by a couple of large states with a lot of rate action taking place there that is causing a decline.
The next question is from Alison Jacobowitz of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been touched on but I was wondering if you could talk some maybe about some of the smaller operations you have like Encompass and maybe the non-standard side.
Is there any opportunities there to turn things more dramatically around? I'll start with what we would call Alison -- I'll start with what we would label as our emerging businesses.
Don might want to talk a little bit about some further growth in Esurance other things we can do there.
Matt can talk about non-standard because there's a number of places we are pushing on growth.
And coming back to our customers we do believe that our customers want to buy in the Allstate channel a wide variety of products.
So we're doing quite well in motorcycles right now.
We need to do better in a wider variety of stuff.
We're doing great in Good Hands Roadside which is our "pay as you go" roadside thing that we launched on a national basis as part of Grow to Win last year.
And so that business has what we would call consumer household business and our motor club business are doing well.
We think we can continue to accelerate growth in those areas.
Encompass is -- when you look at over the last 4 years Encompass is a significant portion of the decline we have in total premiums.
We did not properly position that business in that channel which are people who want local advice but are less concerned about who the company is and they tend to be a little more price sensitive.
So our -- we got the wrong business we got it through the wrong agency owners.
We've repositioned that business.
You see a small growth in that business in the first quarter of this year.
I'm not satisfied that we have that completely positioned yet to grow.
They have more work to do but we believe there's upside there because if we just get back what we lost we'll pick up about $700 million or $800 million premium.
So that's a good growth.
Don I don't know if you want to talk about potential to add products to Esurance and the positioning of the risk profile in terms of preferred.
And then Don maybe you can go to non-standard and then if you want to say anything else.
Yes Alison it's Don Civgin.
We've only had Esurance for one full quarter now.
But I would tell you I think we are just as happy as the day we made the announcement if not more at this point when we look at what the opportunity -- the breakout opportunity to your question is with Esurance.
A lot of good things are taking place.
The integration is going quite well.
Some of that is going to be efforts to reduce costs so that we're taking advantage of scale and process improvements and claims.
Contract renegotiations have been very fruitful as well.
Tom's right I think we're looking at launching a series of new additional products for Esurance increasing the number of states that they will be operating in because if you recall when we acquired them they were not in all 50 states.
And we are adding the benefit of our kind of deep pricing knowledge particularly as it relates to our customer segment just a little bit different than theirs.
So none of that's rolled out yet.
It's all going to be part of the customer value proposition over the next year or 2 as it grows.
But I would tell you even in the first quarter -- now we don't report year-over-year results because we didn't own them a year ago.
But if you look at their gross written premium compared to when White Mountains reported them last year they're up 6.5% in the first quarter.
So that's the result of some advertising and a new campaign and so forth.
But when you ask us their breakout opportunity I think there's a substantial opportunity for Esurance as they build the value proposition around their customer.
This is Matt Alison.
I'll touch on non-standard a little bit.
We've shown a slight improvement in new business over the prior year.
We stabilized the Allstate blue states and we've had a little bit of a surging new business in the non-Allstate blue states.
But nevertheless those 30-day retention continues to decline and our items in force continue to decline.
We've slowed that down a little bit.
I've asked our group to take a very long hard look at ways of getting more substantially back in what I'll call the near non-standard or the near standard niche here possibly not the full non-standard all the way down market but those borderline cases.
And so we will do a fair amount of work over the next 3 to 6 months to assess our opportunity there.
It's an area that I think has great long-term potential if done right.
And if done in a disciplined careful manner which includes some variations on the business model and how you bill and how some of the underwriting rules are executed and so I see it as a growth opportunity that we should be very careful about how we tap into so that we do it right.
Because as I said before growth without the profitability could destroy shareholder value and we're about building shareholder value.
Our next question is from Dan Johnson of Citadel.
Maybe could you put around a little more insight into the alternative asset strategy that you've moved the accounting a little bit on? Just tell us a little bit about how big and what you're interested in doing there and then maybe just an update on the agent consolidation strategy.
Can you throw us some numbers in terms of where you're at on that? So Dan it's Judy Greffin.
And I can talk a little bit about what we're doing in alternative and private assets.
So if you think about where we are today we have a mix of private equity private real estates real assets and infrastructure as well as hedge funds.
And we've had a long-standing program in private equity.
We continue and expect to have a long-standing program in private equity don't expect that one to grow that much over the next 12 to 24 months.
Private real estate and real assets and infrastructure though we are growing those.
We look at those as an opportunity to own some good assets as well as assets that generate some cash flow.
So we look at that and say "That's a nice alternative in this low rate environment selling some assets directly." And then within hedge funds we have reduced our exposure to hedge funds and expect that we'll look at that more opportunistically into the future.
So that is the total of those assets.
And the reason why we're increasing the real assets and real estate really has to do with not just the low interest rate environment but also the strategy for Allstate Financial which we talked about earlier.
And we look at those assets as a nice fit to our long-dated liabilities and see that as a long-term asset choice for us.
Dan this is Steve.
What Judy has described is really the reason we moved the EMA income from realized capital gains up to the net [ph] investment income.
It's really much more closely aligned with our operating income than it has been for the last several years.
Do we have the historical data set on that like if we went back into the AOCI or something can we see the sort of earnings that have generated from those assets? Yes you can see that in the investor supplement and the 10-Qs going back by year and by quarter.
Great.
And Judy in terms of sort of new money yields on more traditional fixed income investments what are we seeing today versus the average yields? So our new money proxies for the property and casualty portfolio which we keep around a 5-year it's around 2.75.
New money proxy for Allstate Financial was a little bit longer.
It's around 3.5.
And Dan I'll make an overall comment on the agency consolidation and Matt might want to talk about some things he has going on.
First the agency consolidation makes it sound like we don't want everybody.
Everybody counts.
You can be a big agency you can be a middle agency you can be a new agency.
We are seeking to have all of them be more successful on behalf of our agency -- of our customers.
And so we have programs around there.
I think the net of that is some people have chosen to leave so we have a fewer.
But it's not as -- it's not like we're trying to get rid of a certain class of agencies.
If you're taking care of our customers who are happy we have to help you support you because bigger agencies do have more capabilities.
So we're helping build [indiscernible] going to help build the efforts for the capabilities for other agencies as well.
Matt maybe you want to talk about some of that.
Sure.
So at a high level there's such a diversity in markets and geographies that we cover that having some artificial numbers about what is the appropriate size agency just makes no sense in a system like ours.
So what we're all about doing and what Tom was referring to is creating an economically viable agency that's able to appropriately serve their customers and grow and develop so that these are vibrant businesses that are really serving Allstate customers the way they deserve to be served.
And so we're allowing the economics of the system to drive things.
And so in a lot of cases we have smaller agencies that see a path to getting to the right size for them and their geography to be supportable.
And we're helping them every step of the way and we'd love them to grow.
So we don't really have in my opinion an agency consolidation strategy.
We have an agency help strategy to help all of our agencies become vibrant economically self-sufficient and capable of serving customers.
Next week in Las Vegas we have a conference.
We have opened up that conference.
It was typically a recognition conference for people who achieved a certain level of production.
We've opened it up to additional non-qualifiers who are paying their own way to go there.
And we have over 4 000 attendees from agency owners and exclusive financial specialists who have attended of which 44% of them are paying their -- I'm sorry 44% of them this will be their first national conference of any type which is very powerful.
It's an opportunity for people who have not achieved levels of success that would have allowed them to attend a recognition conference before be around people who have and learn best practices from their peers and colleagues exchange ideas in how to approach and serve the marketplace.
And so we're really excited about that.
And we in fact have workshops and seminars available for every size agency there to help them all be successful.
So I think we did a bad job previously on explaining our strategy if you think of it as a consolidation strategy because I don't think...
Yes I apologize for belaboring the question.
I thought the idea was to bring larger scale to the agencies to help drive a customer satisfaction which had waned a bit but also basically economic efficiencies.
Yes that is true Dan.
And certainly the bigger they are the better and easier to do that.
But I think what got lost in that translation was we can do some of that centrally for our agencies so that even if you only have 1 800 accounts we can make you look and feel like a 3 000-account agency.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> My question is around buybacks.
You're obviously making more money.
You have additional debt capacity and the life exposures are shrinking.
What's the possibility to accelerate the current buyback? And longer term what's the potential to actually increase the level of buyback? Well I think if you look at our track record you can see if we don't have a good use of the capital we give back to shareholders.
This -- we do see -- you're correct in saying this is an accelerated pace on this one this billion dollar program which should be done by February '13.
And we're obviously ahead of pace on that.
We saw the stock was so cheap we just thought we ought to be buying it back faster so we rushed and did it.
We're making good money we still have -- when we get done with this authorization then we'll figure out where we're going next.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one quick follow-up.
You show that Texas auto loss ratio popped up.
Is that tornadoes or is there some other issue in Texas? It's cats and weather.
It's tornadoes it's hail and it's actually rain in some areas.
Our next question is from Alan Straus of Schroders.
Yes.
Given the powerful cash flow is the notion of issuing the preferred off the table again? Or is it still out there and you're thinking about it? Alan this is Tom.
When we announced the billion dollar share repurchase we said there were 3 places we would source the capital from.
First was we had a deployable capital at the holding company level.
Second we said we obviously will have earnings.
And we said if those are not enough then we will issue the preferred.
Obviously given what's happened with earnings we haven't seen the need to do that so we're -- we don't feel like we need to issue it at this point in time.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> Just 2 if I may.
The other personal line segment Tom the combined x cats x development it was the best in I think 5 years.
Can you just talk about what went on in that line? And then do you know just is that trendable or were there some onetime benefits? Overall personal line? L.P.</strong> The other personal line segments so the non-auto non-home.
Other personal line.
I would say 1 quarter does not make -- they had a good quarter.
I think we -- but there are some portions of that business that are not operating as well as we would like them to be so for example in there you have manufactured housing and a few other things so -- which were not yet well priced on.
We have some businesses that we like a lot so there's 7 or 8 things.
They're headed in the right direction.
Last year we had an underwriting loss on those businesses in large part because of catastrophes.
But even when you exclude catastrophes we thought we could run a higher profit margin in those businesses given where the competitors are.
And so we have some work to do still.
But we feel good.
They had a good quarter so we're happy about it.
L.P.</strong> Any particular lines that drove the performance motorcycles or commercial or anything like that? Or was it kind of broad-based? No it's pretty broad-based.
L.P.</strong> Okay great.
And then just one other one.
On the idea of turning around the PIF and honestly I'm not trying to pin you down on a number or timing.
But just sort of what initiatives are going to drive it? Obviously you talked a little bit about the agency issues and -- but beyond that I mean are New York and Florida now able to start growing? Are they fixed enough where you feel like you can start turning up the market support there? I think you mentioned in your prior meeting about expanding the bull's-eye a little bit I guess to try to target some more customers who maybe haven't been a good price PIF before.
What are sort of the initiatives that we're going to see? When PIF gets better what are going to be the reasons? I would say Matt and his team have a whole variety of initiatives going on relative to growth most of which you've talked about.
The one that is not -- we haven't spent as much time talking about either on the positive or negative side is retention.
And part of Grow to Win which I think I've mischaracterized publicly Grow to Win was really a one task of component of our overall business strategy.
And then we had more marketing programs for customers.
We wanted to launch Good Hands Roadside on a national basis we wanted to do a number of local programs to engage agencies in growth.
And we had a program focused on retention which we had our employees calling out on behalf of the agencies.
We called 1 million customers.
And so the retention part is something that we're hard at work on.
It's a little difficult when you're doing things like New York and Florida and you're raising homeowner rates to get overall retention but I would say that's the other part of our growth program which you didn't mention and then Matt talked about non-standard.
I don't know if there's anything else you want to add.
Yes I guess you mentioned broadening the target and in fact we are rolling out some refinements to our auto pricing state-by-state that will have the impact of broadening the target in the first state that it rolled out in the first pilot.
It improved close rates by just over 2 percentage points.
So that was very encouraging.
We have a carefully thought-out rollout plan for this year of -- about capability.
Don't forget we also have Claim Satisfaction Guarantee that's being rolled out.
We have a tremendous number of initiatives.
We're trying not to overwhelm the field with initiatives yet provide growth-oriented initiatives where they're most needed.
And my firm belief is as the need for taking rate and doing reinspections and rate reclassifications et cetera diminishes it will free up agent time and the agent capacity to focus on the things they like doing the most which is growing and serving their customers.
So we feel like the trend line is good.
It's hard to tell you exactly when we're "ready to grow" in New York and Florida but we're on the right path.
L.P.</strong> Matt does it feel this is a particularly good time to be broadening that appetite given 2 of your largest competitors seem to be pulling back a little bit due to their margin issues? Yes.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> On the homeowners we've seen a decline in frequency and severity.
How much of that was because of the underwriting actions you've taken? And can we expect to see that in the future? Yes Vinay I mentioned earlier that whether it's 60-40 or 50-50 some percentage is temporary due to weather in cats and some is very sustainable due to rates inspections correct class actions non-renewals the actions we're taking to ensure that we're increasing what I'd call the underwriting muscle in that line.
And so I think it's very sustainable and I think we're feeling very good about it.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Just a follow-up for New York and Florida personal auto.
Those states seem to be fixed.
When do you think that you guys can start having a flatter PIF growth in those 2 states? Everyone keeps circling around this one.
If you look at the business model and the way it renews and the way the customer flows work it takes a while to overcome declines in retention and declines in the new business.
So I don't think you should expect to see those turn around soon.
We're obviously working on them.
They're different in each market.
Florida's got some new legislation passed although it's also got some pricing components to that so we're kind of watching that one closely.
New York we feel good about the operational position wherein it's a little less fluid in terms of being able to adjust if you don't have it quite right.
And we have a relatively sizable decline in both retention and new business here.
Now we've rolled out some new pricing in New York.
But -- so we're about growing in the right way but I don't think you should expect to see us start talking about growth including New York and Florida being up in the near term.
Our final question today is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'll just be a quick one here for you all.
On the paid severities going on in the quarter I know last year -- last quarter you talked about used car parts and replacement [ph] causing that to kind of move up.
Is that still the case? And do you think that's going to continue here for another couple quarters or is it kind of an aberration here? This is Matt Brian.
Well yes we saw the third consecutive month that the Manheim Index showed an increase in used car prices.
So in fact every month of that quarter we saw an increase in used car prices which certainly drove some of it.
We also remember had a very good weather quarter which decreased the number of small fender benders.
So the accidents that occurred tended to be the larger ones not related to weather.
And I'd say that's the predominant piece.
BI is moving along with the relevant index the medical CPI.
And PIP is within our expectations.
So the thing that we're pretty focused on is PD severity.
Frequency looks relatively benign with gasoline prices and the continued benefits from New York and Florida.
Brian this is Tom.
If you want to look at used car prices over a longer period of time there are some measures out there and what you would see is from sort of 1999 to 2009 they kind of were down to slightly flat over that entire 10-year period which of course happen to coincide with massive amounts of new car production sales in the United States.
Of course then in '09 when new car sales went way down then you saw the opposite.
So you could [indiscernible].
Our job is not to predict that but is to react to it and that's exactly what Matt's team is doing.
Okay.
Well thank you all for joining us today.
We're off to a good start in 2012 but we obviously have more work ahead of us this year.
But we do have our 4 priorities we're focusing on which is maintain auto profitability raise returns in homeowners and annuity businesses grow insurance premiums and then proactively manage our investments and capital.
Successful execution of those will keep driving shareholder value up.
Thank you and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Block you may begin.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us today for Allstate's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
As usual we will begin today with some prepared remarks from Tom Wilson Steven Shebik and me followed by a question-and-answer session.
Don Civgin Head of Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch Controller; and Matt Winter Head of Auto Home and Agencies are here as well.
Yesterday afternoon we issued our press release and investor supplement as well as our 10-Q for the second quarter.
We also posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are all available on our website.
Referring to the first slide of the presentation this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Actual results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2011 our 10-Q for the second quarter 2012 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
This discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
I will be available after this call to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Now we can begin the discussion of our results with Tom Wilson.
Tom? Well good morning.
Thanks for your interest in Allstate.
My remarks will focus on our performance relative to our 2012 priorities within the context of our consumer purpose strategy and then Bob and Steve will cover their quarter's results in greater detail.
So let's begin on the top of Slide 2.
As you know our strategy is to provide unique protection products to each of the 4 consumer segments in the marketplace.
The Allstate brand which is in the lower left serves those customers that want local advice and assistance and prefer to purchase competitively differentiated brand of products.
In this business we're successful in introducing new differentiated products such as our Claim Satisfaction Guarantee Good Hands Roadside and House &amp; Home our support of Allstate agencies and marketing programs continue to be expanded with good results premiums written though were flat for the Allstate brand as our efforts to raise returns in homeowners negatively impacts retention of home owners and we have lower new business sales of auto insurance.
We did increase the emerging businesses and Allstate Financial products sold through Allstate agencies.
The lower right customer segment is served by Esurance which we acquired in October to give us a growth platform for self-serve customers that prefer our brand of product.
We continue to believe our capabilities will make us a more powerful competitor and policies in force are up this year.
The results of Encompass and Answer Financial also improved this quarter.
Our 4 2012 priorities are to create shareholder value by: one maintaining auto profitability; two raising returns in homeowners and annuity businesses; three growing insurance premiums; and fourth proactively managing investments and capital.
So moving to Slide 3.
We had another very good quarter with financial results showing progress in our priorities.
On a consolidated basis we reported net income of $423 million and $432 million of operating income both significant improvements for the net and operating loss posted last year in the second quarter.
The improvement was driven by lower catastrophe losses and a favorable reduction in the underlying combined ratio.
While catastrophe losses this quarter were reduced from last year's record second quarter this quarter's losses were still high versus the long-term average.
It reaffirms our 2008 decision to focus on improving returns in our homeowners line.
Book value per share has increased 9.8% this year reaching almost $40.
Return on equity for the last 12 months increased 11% on a net income basis and with 11.4% on an operating basis getting closer to the 2014 goal of 13%.
Good progress is made on our 2012 priorities as well.
We maintained auto profitability with the Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio of 95.5 which is better than last year's second quarter.
Esurance's combined ratio increased largely reflecting higher advertising expenses acquisition cost amortization and catastrophe.
There was modest upward pressure on auto loss cost but this is well within our pricing parameters.
Homeowner returns continued to improve with an underlying combined ratio of 64.6 which was 4.8 points better than last year's second quarter.
This reflects both our long-term effort to raise prices and improve underwriting selection as well as the moderation of loss cost.
We're pleased with the results but recognize there is more work to be done until returns are adequate and sustainable.
Allstate Financial's annuity returns were essentially unchanged economically but the reported results were higher largely as a result in shift in the location of income from limited partnerships.
Overall Allstate Financial had $138 million of operating income which is comparable to last year's quarter on a slightly smaller asset base.
Insurance premiums increased in the quarter by 3.8% from the prior year largely reflecting the acquisition of Esurance and increases in emerging businesses and Encompass.
Esurance's policies in force have increased by 13.5% since the beginning of this year as our new advertising and pricing sophistication resulted in economically attractive growth.
The investment portfolio had a total return of 1.8% in the quarter with a small increase in investment income $27 million in net capital gains and a $442 million increase in unrealized capital gains.
We remain focused on balancing returns and preservation of capital by favoring intermediate corporate credit investments in this low rate unstable economic environment.
We also repurchased $275 million of common stock in this quarter.
All in all good progress on all 4 priorities.
Bob and Steve will now provide more detail on the various components of these results.
Slide 4 provides our net premium written and combined ratio for property liability.
Overall premiums written of $6.86 billion grew 3.8% compared to the prior year a growth rate similar to that of the first quarter 2012 driven primarily by our acquisition of Esurance which continued to grow both premiums and units as well as positive growth experienced in both the Allstate and Encompass brands.
Allstate brand's standard auto net premium written of $3.9 billion declined slightly from the prior-year quarter as auto profitability actions taken in New York and Florida coupled with actions to improve homeowner returns continued to hamper overall growth.
Excluding New York and Florida net premiums written for the Allstate brand's standard auto grew slightly from the second quarter 2011.
The drop in units was partially offset by an increase in average premium.
Retention at 89% was down 2/10 of a point from last year's quarter driven by declines in New York and Florida with the rest of the country increasing slightly.
Allstate brand homeowners net written premium of $1.64 billion increased 2.1% from the second quarter 2011.
Rate actions designed to improve homeowner returns more than offset the decline in units as average premiums increased 9.2% in the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011.
In the second quarter we received approval for rate changes in 7 states averaging 10.2% worth 1.2% on a countrywide basis.
In addition to the rate actions we have introduced our new product called House &amp; Home in 9 states 7 of them in the second quarter of 2012.
We're pleased with the results thus far as early results indicated we are getting a little lift in new business acquisition for both the homeowners and auto insurance.
Within the Allstate brand the other personal lines which comprise emerging businesses posted net written premium growth of 1.8%.
We also experienced net premium written growth in Encompass of 5.9% driven by a substantial increase in new issued applications as well as increased retention ratio.
Sequential growth in policies in force was achieved in emerging businesses Canada Encompass and Esurance.
On the bottom half of Slide 4 the recorded combined ratio for property liability was 98.0% a significant improvement from second quarter 2011's 123.3%.
A lower catastrophe loss and an improved underlying combined ratio were the primary reasons for the favorable results.
The underlying combined ratio was 86.3% a 1.2 point improvement from the second quarter 2011.
Seasonally the second quarter has produced the lowest underlying combined ratio in every year since 2005.
Moving to Slide 5.
We provided the loss trends for Allstate brand's standard auto for the last few years.
The top half of the slide displays the gross frequency and paid severity for bodily injury and property damage coverages.
After 4 quarters of frequency reduction both bodily injury and property damage frequencies increased from prior year by 1.9% and 1.4% respectively.
Paid severities for bodily injury and property damage also increased by 3.4% and 3% respectively.
While this represents a modest increase in loss cost for these coverages when you include the results for the other coverages coupled with the impact of an increase in average written premium the underlying combined ratio improved slightly to 93.4% from 93.7% in the second quarter of 2011.
We continued to gain approval for rate changes this quarter with 19 states approved at an average in those states of 4.4% for a countrywide impact of 1.5%.
With maintaining auto profitability being a key priority for us we added the next slide to give you a longer-term view of this key metric.
Since 2001 we have produced strong profitable underwriting margins in the Allstate brand standard auto averaging a combined ratio over the last 11 years of about 93%.
The chart in the bottom of the page gives you the underlying combined ratio since 2008 by quarter and year.
While there are some seasonal fluctuation the pattern of profitable margins is evident.
It has been and will continue to be very important for us to maintain auto profitability.
Before moving on to homeowner loss trends we made a commitment to you to provide an update on Esurance.
Details for Esurance underwriting results can be found on Page 24 of our Investor Supplement.
Growth accelerated in the second quarter with premiums written of $224 million.
Keep in mind that seasonally the first quarter tends to be the highest quarter of the year in terms of premium volume.
Policies in force through the 9th [ph] are $892 000 up 13.5% since year-end 2011.
The underlying combined ratio was $106 million including 16.2 points of advertising expense.
The reported combined ratio for the quarter was 116.7.
Overall Esurance is performing as we expected.
On Slide 7 we provided charts on homeowner rate activity loss trends and profitability.
In the upper left we show the countrywide rate effect of the approved rate actions over time.
As I mentioned previously in the second quarter we received approval for rate changes in 7 states averaging 10.2% worth 1.2% on a countrywide basis.
So over the last 4 quarters we have averaged over 8% on a countrywide basis a level consistent with the last few years.
In the upper right we displayed the frequency in paid severity trends excluding catastrophes.
In the second quarter frequency declined 6.7% compared to the prior year while paid severity increased 2%.
Given these modest loss cost trends coupled with approved rate actions the underlying combined ratio shown on the lower left declined by 4.8 points to 64.6%.
The combined ratio the reported combined ratio for the second quarter was still unprofitable at 104.9%.
We'll continue to focus on improving the margins in homeowners.
Taking a closer look at the underlying combined ratio for Allstate brand homeowners on the next slide the top chart provides the results for the underlying combined ratio by quarter.
The underlying combined ratio began to improve in the back half of 2011 and continued into the first 2 quarters of 2012.
The chart on the bottom of the slide provides some insight into this improving trend.
It plots the percent increase in the average earnings versus the underlying loss trend.
It also answers the question "With all the rate increases Allstate has taken why hasn't the underlying combined ratio improved faster?".
First looking at the earned premium line in red we observed that the increasing trend beginning in early 2011 one that is more reflective of the approved rate action levels.
It takes time for the rate changes to be earned because it's an annual policy.
Second the loss trend in blue essentially matched the change in year average earns so the underlying combined ratio didn't show much improvement until the last 1.5 years.
So the improvement we've experienced in the underlying combined ratio was driven by rates being earned and by favorable loss trends.
Results for Allstate Financial on Slide 9 are reflective of our efforts to improve returns while shifting the focus from spread-based to underwritten products.
In the second quarter total premiums and contract charges increased 2.2% from prior year with underwritten products up 3.1% from the second quarter of 2011.
Allstate agencies increased life unit sales with issued policies growing 2.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.
Operating income of $138 million increased 2.2% from the prior year helped by the inclusion of equity method limited partnership results this year as well as lower crediting rates that were partially offset by worse mortality in both life insurance and annuities lower yields on fixed income securities and the continued managed reduction in spread business.
Net income of $132 million declined relative to last year driven by a reduction in net realized capital gains.
Operating returns on attributed equity were relatively consistent with the first quarter 2012 levels.
Life insurance returns were at 10.8% accident and health were at 16.3% and annuities came in at 5.9% as of the end of the second quarter.
The overall return was 8.7% 4/10 of 1 point better than year-end 2011.
With that I'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Bob.
We continue to proactively balance portfolio yield and return objectives in this challenging low rate market environment delivering a total portfolio return for the second quarter of 1.8% on a GAAP accounting basis and 3.8% to the first 6 months of the year.
On Slide 10 we can see the size and composition of our overall portfolio.
Improved fixed income valuations portfolio income and positive cash flows from our Property-Liability business more than offset the ongoing managed reduction of Allstate Financial's spread business.
These factors combined to raise the portfolio valuation to $97.3 billion at the end of the second quarter compared to $95.6 billion at year-end 2011 and $97 billion as of the first quarter.
Our portfolio actions during the second quarter continue to focus on optimizing our fixed income portfolio position on the yield curve shifting more toward the intermediate term part of the curve and favoring corporate credit over treasuries and equities.
You can see the result of these actions which reduces reinvestment risk and will preserve capital when interest rates begin to increase in the asset allocation breakout as well as the scheduled maturity profile.
Slide 11 highlights portfolio income and yield trends.
For the second quarter of 2012 net investment income was just over $1 billion comparable to the second quarter of 2011 and total portfolio yield was 4.6% higher than the second quarter of 2011 and consistent with the first quarter of 2012.
Limited partnership results were the primary driver of the favorable variance to the prior-year quarter.
You may remember that we've prospectively changed our classification of equity method limited partnership results to net investment income from realized capital gains at the beginning of the year.
This brought us more in line with the reporting practices of our peers.
Investment income provided in limited partnerships was $107 million in the quarter comparable to the total from the first quarter and $89 million higher than the prior-year quarter.
The increase reflects the change in classification as well as an improvement of $34 million in limited partnership performance.
If our equity method limited partnership results had not been reclassified second quarter 2012 net investment income and portfolio yield would have been lower than the prior-year quarter as seen from the chart on the bottom of the slide and consistent with the reduction in Allstate Financial's liabilities and lower interest rates.
On Slide 12 you can see that we've realized gains of $27 million in the second quarter of 2012 a decrease of $30 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Our portfolio management actions and other trading activities generated approximately $70 million in trading gains in the sales of fixed income and equity securities which were offset by $15 million in write-downs for the quarter.
Impairment and intent write-downs continue to trend significantly lower than prior year periods.
Derivative results reflect reduced usage as we are focusing the management of rate risk in the cash market to portfolio positioning on the yield curve.
We finished the quarter in a strong capital position as shown on Slide 13.
Shareholders equity of $19.5 billion increased $1.2 billion from year-end 2011.
Statutory surplus for both Property-Liability and life remained strong and deployable assets at the holding company level was $2.3 billion.
We continue to buy back our stock purchasing $275 million during the second quarter.
That leaves $319 million on our current $1 billion authorization.
Our book value per share hit a new high of $39.73 and the strength of our operating performance improved portfolio valuation and active capital management.
Now let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
Quick question on homeowners that I've asked before.
What inning do you think you are in the play in this business and I guess put another way how many more quarters do you think we'll be hearing that aggregate premium growth or PIP growth was held by homeowners' actions.
It seems like your underlying is getting close to the low 60s this quarter and your -- I thought the relatively low cat ratio of 12 points versus your peers was an encouraging quarter relative to your cat management programs.
So where do you think you are Tom? Well Bob if nothing else you're consistent so thank you for that.
As we said look this is a business we have about $6 billion of capital locked in.
We're looking to get in the mid-teens kind of returns on our capital so we obviously have a way to go.
Matt can talk specifically about what we're doing.
I will say I feel very good about the results in the underlying trends we see.
Clearly we had a little bit of benefit I think lower fire losses and a few things this quarter but the geographical focus Matt has brought to the business has been quite good and he can talk about some of the things he has going there.
So Matt? Sure.
Thanks for the question Bob.
I usually tell people if I could predict the weather patterns both cat and non-cat I could tell you what inning we're in.
But until then and since I can't I can't really give you an answer to what inning we're in.
I can tell you how we're approaching the business though.
This may not surprise you but like politics this business is entirely local and it's like playing a game of whack-a-mole at the amusement park everywhere you turn something pops up and you have to deal with it aggressively.
And as Tom said we've decided that trying to have 1 person with a club managing all of these interactions is impossible so we pushed some of the decision-making down to the more local level and empowered local management state managers and people who can watch individual geographies not just by state but even within a state to manage and react to trends very quickly as opposed to trying to manage them all from a centralized basis.
And so that has enabled us I think to react very quickly to trends as they emerge.
So the things that we're watching pop-up may be somewhat unexpected but they're still manageable.
And in some cases we've been able to react so quickly that they don't even emerge as microtrends much less macrotrends.
So we'll continue to approach the game that way depending upon how weather pans out and how a couple of other factors pan out.
We'll determine how soon we're through some of the stabilization mode and get into the growth mode that we all want to be in but we know our task and that's to get rate adequate manage our volatility create a sustainable base for growth and then focus on that growth.
And Bob I've been -- we're down about 200 000 policies in the homeowners I think for 6 months it's a close number.
I don't think you should see that rate of decline change in the second half of the year in fact it may be a little higher as Matt does some specific targeted actions we've talked about.
So we feel good about it but we're not there yet so we're not yet -- as Matt said he's not ready to turn on the spigot just yet.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the expense ratio that's been kind of [indiscernible] which is a good thing.
But any sense for -- any specific projects that you plan to reduce expense ratio? I'll make that a general comment and then Don can speak about what we're doing in advertising and Esurance and Matt can talk about the work he's doing.
We obviously look hard at our expenses in all combination we expect and we're always trying to reduce expenses and shift those to where we need to put them.
Part of the reason for our increasing expense ratio would be the Esurance increased advertising.
We also spent a little bit more money in advertising in the Allstate brand this quarter as well.
Matt has a number of programs going on now to simplify and reduce cost.
So Don maybe you want to start and then Matt jump into...
Sure Vinay.
Of course Esurance has a slightly different model business model than Allstate does and so much of the expenses are acquisition related and charged upfront.
And so as we have grown the business and that growth has been pretty substantial here in the second quarter with new policy sales are up over 30%.
As that happens what happens is you're expensing a lot of advertising expense upfront which obviously has an impact on the -- expected impact on the combined ratio for Esurance.
I would tell you the integration is going quite well.
The other expenses are coming down as we expected them to so we're getting the efficiencies and we're getting the savings we expected from the acquisition.
We are intentionally spending the money on advertising quite honestly because the response has been so strong to it and we're seeing some very solid growth.
So you will see a tick up in the combined ratio but what's important for you to understand is we are looking at this from an economic combined ratio and if you allocate those acquisition expenses through the life of the contract the business that Esurance is writing is combined ratio under 100 so it's actually quite attractive business.
On a GAAP basis it's going to raise the combined ratio for some period of time.
But that's what happens with that accounting model and high-growth levels.
Vinay it's Matt.
So I'll give you a little perspective on the expense ratio and how we're approaching it.
We look at this as two prongs.
We don't believe that you can manage the expense ratio just by managing down and cutting expenses because if you do that actually you'll so constrain growth that you'll actually hurt the expense ratio.
So we're trying to do a balanced approach to managing the expense ratio through targeted efforts on growth and pruning out all the unnecessary and non value-added expenses in the business most of that is through simplification of workflows.
So I have a team working with my back office right now focusing on removing handoffs simplifying processes dramatically reducing service level agreement times and taking out expenses through productivity as opposed to reducing expenses through other efforts that might impact growth.
So we're looking at this in kind of a balanced way.
We think we're making some good progress on it but we don't want to try to cut our way to success there because we think it will be counterproductive in the long term.
Vinay this is Tom.
And if you look forward and as I know you'll always do as we look forward to next year you should expect us to continue to compete aggressively in the marketplace as both Matt and Don just talked about.
We're also going to have to spend more money on technology because all of the customer segments we've talked about whether they be the Allstate Agency local advice and assistance or Esurance are adapting to new technologies quickly.
So we're going to probably spend more money on technology as we move forward next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
This second question is on PIF.
Could you help us understand how you're looking at PIF as we get into the back half of this year and early next year especially considering that the new commission structure for agents is going to come up to -- falls on January 1 next year? Maybe I'll make a comment about all the different businesses.
Matt can talk about the commission stuff and maybe Matt you want to talk about sort of the agency relationships because that's related to it as well.
So obviously we expect Esurance to keep going we like what we got there.
Don talked about that.
Encompass has started to grow but they got a long way to go to get back to where we were so I'm hopeful they'll continue to push our package policy growth.
The Allstate channel we've talked about at length in terms of the headwinds of the homeowners business and what's going on in New York and Florida we should start to cycle through those.
But I don't think you should expect to see dramatic growth in PIF there.
Allstate Financial we continue to make some progress on life sales and the Allstate Benefits business and then you should expect to see the size and it's not really related to PIF but the size of the fixed annuity business continue to come down.
We're down about 4% or $1.5 billion so far this year.
We would expect that business to keep coming down if you're just thinking about growth in total of the company.
And Matt maybe you want to talk about that commission structure agency relationships? Sure.
I want to make sure I understood the question so if this is not the answer to your question please follow-up again.
But you mentioned the change in commission structure as if that was going to impact PIF and our ability to grow and in reality the primary change that's taken place in January is a simple variable comp piece that's been drawn in as part of the overall commission structure.
And that variable comp piece that 1% is earned back by the agents through a series of fairly simple and very controllable actions on their part about physical presence and the location and what it looks like having sufficient number of licensed sales professionals to support the agent maintaining continuing education credits and things that are manageable within their control.
And in addition they'll have the ability to earn an extra 1% based upon customer experience results and customer satisfaction through a survey.
So I don't anticipate that the change in commission structure will impact PIF in any meaningful way.
My expectation is that it will improve customer experience and align the interest of our agencies and the company and the policyholders together in a more productive manner.
The collateral or tangential question you raised is agency relationships and that has impacted PIF to some extent in that they have been distracted a little bit by the change in commission structure as they were learning it and trying to understand its impact and trying to figure out how to manage their cash flows.
We have or had an aggressive agent reengagement strategy underway for the last several months.
It began with a fairly massive gathering at the National Forum in Las Vegas where we had over 4 400 agencies present.
And the best I would say over 40% of whom had never been to a national conference before any time in their history of affiliation with Allstate.
So we managed to pull together a bunch of people who do not typically have the opportunity to hear from management learn best practices from each other and share and develop and that was used as an opportunity to give people a chance to ask questions about the new commission structure and the new bonus structure to learn about it figure out how they can maximize their own compensation and get their heads back in the game.
It's been productive it hasn't solved everything yet.
We understand how important agency morale is.
We know it's critical that they understand how much we believe in them and how much we want them to be successful.
And we will continue to work on it and align with them and our goal and belief is that we can make these compensation changes in a positive way without negatively impacting anything.
We did a survey after the event and the 80% to 90% said "We feel good about the company.
We think management understands us.
We're feeling good about where it could go" so I'd rather be at 100% rather than in the 80s and 90s but if you look at a large geographically dispersed and diverse workforce we recognize we have room to improve but it's also not as -- you have to listen to the broad set of opinions as opposed to just the noisiest ones.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Just as a follow-up to that.
I mean my concern was just that as you approach the January 1 date you might get some more requests for dominations from agents just because they don't want to move to a low commission structure.
And should that affect the PIF? So that was really my question.
Yes well let me clarify.
It's not a low commission structure.
It's actually an opportunity to earn a higher commission through certain activities in customer satisfaction and we believe strongly that once they understand that and see how achievable it is and they see their true earnings potential that it will actually be helpful to attracting and retaining more agencies as opposed to a catalyst for departures.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the return on equity goal of 13% by 2014 it seems like you're getting real close to that faster than I would have expected and probably a lot of other people.
Any -- what are your thoughts in terms of achieving that goal prior to 2014? Jay we're still 2 points and 19 billion away to go and so we're talking about $500 million to $600 million by the time you sort through it all.
And so we have some work to go.
We still feel good about it.
Obviously we have a headwind which when we made that projection of interest rates are a lot lower.
So we had to work our way through that but we still feel good about getting the 13% by '14.
To the extent we get there sooner will just make our shareholders even happier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the underlying combined ratio guidance I struggled to remember whether if it had come in better than your range if you had changed the guidance over time? I'm not sure I -- so...
Research Division</strong> It's coming in better clearly than in the first half compared to the guidance range? Do you -- is there a point at which you might improve the guidance range? Yes we put the guidance out there as 88 to 91 there's obviously a fair amount of bouncing around because of frequency which can move a point on either way which translates right into a point so I would say a good frequency so far this year.
It is a full year number don't feel like changing it right now.
And it's just one component of what we try -- and you know what? I would really ask you to focus on the 4 priorities we have and see how we're delivering on those 4 priorities.
We provide that guidance to help people do their analysis but as you're well aware that is only a small piece of what overall results are.
It doesn't include catastrophe it doesn't include investing income doesn't include all of Allstate Financial's subs.
There's a lot of pieces missing so I don't -- I'm not inclined to change it right now because it's a full year number but I like where we're at.
I'm feeling good about the business right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally switching gears to property liability net investment income it was up pretty meaningfully on a link-quarter basis $352 million versus $313 million I realize limited partnership had a benefit there but the pickup in taxable non -- the taxable fixed income was also a benefit.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what do you feel of the right normalized quarterly run rate is there? That's a complicated question.
Maybe I can get Judy to talk about -- Judy if you'd talk about the difference and also what we've done in repositioning the portfolio into the intermediate part of the curve what we do with equities and at -- at the end of the first quarter and then maybe talk a little bit about the role and what we have going on over the next sort of 12 months that might help Jay get through his number.
I don't think -- we're not going to give you a specific number but Judy can you give those components which will help get you there.
So when you look at it with LPs and without LPs you're right we're doing okay in both.
I'd say without LPs it's stabilized as well.
And as Tom mentioned we're doing a lot in terms of optimizing the portfolio and one of the things we did in the first quarter which we might have mentioned before was that we sold some equities and bought high yields in the property and casualty company.
We like that trade from an economic perspective and it also has helped on investment income on year-to-date and what we've also done is continue to optimize the portfolio on the interest rate curve.
So over the past several quarters what we've done is we've sold near-term maturities and sold longer duration maturities because we're still concerned about long-term interest rates eventually going up and where we've really focused our efforts in the intermediate part of the curve 5 to 7 year maturities.
So that helped us maintain our income but it also have helped preserve the income going forward because we'll have less coming off the portfolio than what we would have had we not done anything.
Research Division</strong> I see all right.
So if I look at that $352 million for the quarter was there anything in there you'd view as extraordinary in the quarter? Except for the LPs I think LPs are more difficult to project and we had a pretty good first quarter in the equity market and that might have pulled some of what we thought was going to happen throughout the year forward.
And you have to remember that we've reported those on a lag and the second quarter equity market wasn't as good as the first quarter.
So the LP component is going to be a little bit more volatile but while we're focused on both yet I think we've also seen some stability because of some of the actions we've taken in the core portfolio as well.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So in the prepared remarks the term moderate was used in regards to the rise in auto loss cost trends.
But when I look on paper looks like the rise largely in frequency was somewhat steep.
So can you provide color on what could be driving the increase and could you also comment on whether non-cat weather costs were lower this quarter versus 2Q '11? So let me just get to the right page so where you're looking at...
Research Division</strong> I think on Slide 5.
Slide 5? And you're looking at the gross frequency numbers? Research Division</strong> Correct.
I would -- you can -- that's a percent change year-over-year so I think -- maybe I'll make a general comment on that we obviously tried to factor in severity and frequency into our pricing.
Matt can talk about how he's doing that.
I don't see anything particularly abnormal in the second quarter.
So it is true that you saw some unfavorable trends there but just remember that 2011 and the beginning of 2012 we're both at the low end of the historical down so the rise looks disproportionate but it is clearly within historical volatility downs.
There are certain geographies that were impacted by xCAT weather which drove frequencies higher such as Texas where we had a bunch of issues.
Not only was Texas the site of 3 of the 4 largest cats but also had a lot of xCAT weather that drove frequency.
So as I said we monitor the quality of our book on a fairly micro basis.
As these emerge -- if we can't explain them or they weren't predictable then we take immediate action to manage them.
So we don't feel concerned about it but we're certainly watching these as they emerge.
But as I said in an earlier response I think some people have interpreted some of these as large macro trends and the more we look at them they're very very locally based microtrends that influence a larger number.
Tom and I talk all the time about how averages lie and so we don't look at the overall average number.
We look at the micro-targeted local numbers and those are within expectations and within historical bounds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And next so $320 million left in the buyback authorization.
Is that tracking ahead of expectations and would the board consider increasing the program before year end? The -- it's a little faster than we had originally planned on.
We thought the price is cheap.
So we kept buying it back and we generated enough capital and have plenty of capital holding at the company level to do that so we got on top of it early and aggressively.
The way we do it is when we get close to the end of the program then we go back and look at what we want to do a new one.
But we typically finish a program then start a new one as opposed to sort of continually increase the size of the existing program.
As you know we've traditionally done that in February when we have a good read on statutory capital for the year and where it came out.
Last year of course we accelerated that because we again thought the price was cheap and we're buying it back.
As soon as we get down with this one we'll sit down on the board and look at it again.
I think you should expect our philosophy to stay the same which is if we have capital that's not being deployed in the business we believe it's the shareholders capital and we will pay that back out to the shareholders.
Largely we have done that through share repurchases over the last 15 years.
And obviously dividends eat up about $450 million a year as well.
And we do generally front-end load the programs a bit before the hurricane season.
So if you look we've seen basic trends a year ago also.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if I can still have bum last one in it's a follow up to the previous question caller's question.
The new money fixed income yields if you got a comment on that? The reinvest yields for Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial? Research Division</strong> Correct.
So for Allstate Protection we target again the 5 to 7 year part of the curve corporates.
Right now we'd say that's around 2.5 to 2 and 3 quarters and then for AF it's longer than that it's more of 7 to 10-year corporates something over 3%.
But remember in AF because the contract holder funds are coming down in the annuity segment.
We don't have much reinvest risk there.
Really we're pretty well matched maturities versus what we expect will come off in terms of liabilities.
Our next question is from Alison Jacobowitz of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I was wondering if you could possibly give some commentary around what may be your seeing your competitors do what the peers do in auto? We've heard them indicating severity pressure is a little bit more than you have so are you seeing more rate actions there? Alison this is Tom.
Matt might want to make some comments as well.
We can't speak to specifically what their strategies are.
Certainly the decreases people were taking back in the '08 period of time when we get -- we don't see people doing that.
We see more modest small increases.
If you look over a longer period of time so if you look at our results from 2007 say forward to today average premium hasn't really gone up much.
We've done a much better job of getting our pricing right for our customers on an individual basis.
Frequency has been down a little bit severity has been up modestly we've controlled it from our standpoint.
I think some of our competitors have been recently talking about higher increases but that's again back to Matt's point averages lie.
If they get a bunch of business in Florida and they messed up then they've got a raise.
I don't know Matt if you're seeing anything different in the marketplace.
No I can't really comment on the competitors.
So I'll just continue to comment on our approach which is I think really one of the benefits of our structure and the way we operate which is the locally based decision-making and monitoring by both state managers controllers regional senior vice presidents those teams are able to focus differently and focus more quickly when trends emerge.
They also know based upon the local geographies what to expect.
So they know for instance when you aggressively push on BI or PIP in some states BI will pop up next and they are prepared for that and they get ready for that.
And so all I can say is we are managing both frequency and severity and dealing with it through appropriate rate correct class the typical underwriting discipline that you would expect to see from Allstate.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> Just a couple of follow ups.
On the homeowners Tom and I think going back to investor day 1 year-or-so ago the goal was toward the low to mid-60s underlying combined and you're at basically in mid-60s now and you're still taking a lot of rate and loss cost seem to be getting a little bit more favorable.
Is it possible you would overshoot that and we could even see better than what your goal is? Ian thanks for remembering and I would say it's always possible but probably not likely.
One of the things impacting this year is mix.
There's a lot fewer fire losses in the first half of this year.
Fire losses tend to have very high average severity and so that can rattle through your paids.
We also had some high number in paid in the second quarter of 2011.
So the decrease is really because of the loss the decrease is not as big as it appears to be.
So I think the last quarter Matt said you thought about 40% was sustainable 60% was sort of one-time.
I don't know what your percentage is this quarter.
But I'd say we're happy where we're at we like where we're going.
If we overshoot given the volatility of this business it's possible some quarters we could make lots of money but as I think we've said at investor conference our goal is to take this business from sometimes earning a profit to sometimes losing a profit to always making some money sometimes a lot of money not sometimes not so much money but move it from the plus or minus category to the plus or plus plus category so that we get a decent return on our capital.
L.P.</strong> Great.
And then and switching to the auto side it seems like there's some concern about rising loss cost trends in the industry.
I know you addressed it a little bit earlier.
But just within the context of you also as you talked about raising prices commensurately do you feel comfortable that the pricing you put through year-to-date has incorporated the loss trend we've seen so far or are we seeing a little bit of surprise and maybe we might be behind the curve for a little bit and we have to keep filing for more rate? Thanks for the question Ian it's Matt.
No we feel comfortable that the rates that we've put in place have reflected the trends as they emerge.
Obviously we don't know what trends are going to emerge tomorrow and next month and if they are outside of the bounds we'll reflect those in the next set of rate taking or underwriting actions.
But again we haven't been that surprised.
BI and PD severities have performed within expectations for the quarter.
BI moved with the medical CPI as we would have expected.
We did get -- there's been a lot of I guess conflicting information out there about used car prices ManheimIndex shows a decrease in second quarter after rising first quarter.
I know one of the analysts posted something about the CarMax index.
So there's a lot of variation and there's things that are transitioning but we feel good about our rates that we've taken.
Obviously some geographies some states are more challenged in taking appropriate rate and it's harder for us there.
And others we have more flexibility and the ability to accurately reflect what's happening but our goal is and I would say this not only for auto but for homeowners and in response to your first question we're trying to charge the right rate.
It's all about charging appropriately for the risk we're taking and earning an appropriate margin and providing the customer with a fair value and so we'll continue to try to move with that philosophy.
L.P.</strong> And competitively are you seeing any signs that maybe your close rates are just trying to go up or anything that suggests -- it does seem a lot of your competitors are sort of struggling with this change in loss trend and maybe have to change their appetite.
Has that sort of translate through realtime yet or not so? We've seen some fluctuation in certain states but I would say it's too early before I could comment on it and tell you I see something that's material and sustainable.
Our next question is from Alan Straus of Schroders.
I was just curious what the weather looked like for July if you guys have any comments? No.
We'll do what we always do which is if cat losses are over $150 million I think it's the third Thursday after the close of the month we'd put a number out.
I think we'll just close in the month right now so I don't have anything to add to that.
Just ask a second question given the capital management earnings are a little bit ahead of schedule would you expect to go to your board a little sooner than you're expected to for -- to re-up the buy back? Well I think Steve mentioned that traditionally it was a good addition to the answer that I gave on.
In the long term we believe in giving money back to shareholders.
We do it sort of annually.
We do try to get ahead of it and then we kind of back off a little bit during hurricane season.
We're just headed in -- August September October tend to be the biggest hurricane months.
So we probably won't be as aggressive in those 3 months but yes as soon as we're done with this one then we'll if we have extra capital and the board approves we'll do another.
Yes I mean -- It's been our -- the amount we bought back I don't know with the last 15 years is like over $20 billion.
So we believe and if we generate extra capital then the shareholders should be able to deploy it where they would like to.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I can tell from the numbers though that your auto only PIF growth is up.
You said to me you didn't know last quarter.
I can tell you you are growing on auto only PIF and I'm wondering if you can have some color about growth rates going on and then and where do you think that's headed? Josh auto only PIF -- or are you talking -- so we have -- we would break it into pieces right? So we have the Esurance piece which we said is up 13.5% this year.
The Allstate brand is down in actual PIF count.
Encompass brand is up a little but it's not a -- I think it's like -- might be $20 000 or something like that.
And Canada is up a little.
Is there other color other than those component pieces? Research Division</strong> So when you say Allstate brand is down that includes policy that were non renewed with the homeowner as well as policies that were sold as standalone? Yes.
It will be -- so maybe this will -- if you look at though -- maybe Matt wants to comment on the growth rate in 3 different categories.
So there's Florida and New York that's one separate auto business.
There is -- those homeowner markets where he and his team are hitting it hard to try to get our return back then there are all other.
That might I think provide some color for you in terms of helping you analyze where you think that's going to go.
Research Division</strong> I'll take it.
[indiscernible] I would like auto only but whatever go for it.
Let's hear the different...
Well the good news Josh is at least we're trying to answer yours.
We didn't try to answer Bob's.
So let me try to break it down the way Tom suggested.
First New York and Florida obviously we've -- our auto is -- in both states is continued to decline.
We're focused on margin improvement actions in those states.
We're seeing some pockets even within New York we had a new rating plan put in a few months ago.
We're seeing pockets of growth there but when you look at the entire state you still have a decline.
And then as Tom said if you break down the country and our geographies into those areas where we're taking significant homeowners rate and it's impacting auto growth versus those geographies where we're not taking significant homeowners rate or we're not having significant nonrenewals due to inspections there is a substantial difference.
There's certainly a big correlation between those homeowners actions in certain states and the impact on auto.
But it's -- I don't want to overgeneralize and say everywhere that we look at monoline only we're managing to grow.
There are certainly pockets where we are growing and growing nicely.
Some of those are due to new rating plans some of those are due to competitiveness due to changes from some of our key competitors as one of the earlier speakers asked about.
I just -- I would caution you on overgeneralizing anything here.
We will have pockets of growth and as we stabilize the actions we're taking on homeowners it will free up capacity on the auto side but recall that our target market has historically been multicar homeowners.
And so when you take homeowners actions you're hitting your target market because they bought multiple policies from us.
And so I guess that's the best I can answer that because I'm not sure.
I'm seeing the exact trend you're referring to.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> The first one I think you may have answered this already but the decline in the homeowners frequency that we're seeing right now how much of that would you attribute it to underwriting initiatives versus just lower non-cat weather going on so far this year? I'm not sure I can give you a percentage.
I'd say it's mixed.
It's reinspections correct class actions nonrenewals as well as xCAT weather.
So I'm not sure I have the breakdown.
Bob do you...
I think it's on a quarter to quarter basis.
I would say there's -- when you look at the mix as we talked about prior there some stuff we got to break down for weather and we may not get a breakdown on that next quarter but...
No I mean fire and xCAT is at a 4-year low.
I'm not sure we can expect it to stay at a 4-year low on a long-term basis.
And so we've been benefited.
If I had to guess I'd say it's a combination of both factors maybe 50/50 maybe 60/40 and I couldn't tell you exactly which is a 60 which is the 40.
Well thank you all for participating today.
Second quarter as we said is a strong quarter despite the heavy weather activity.
We achieved progress on all 4 of our priorities and we look forward to talking next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for Allstate's third quarter earnings conference call.
First Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and I will provide some color on our results for the quarter.
And then we'll go into a question-and-answer period.
Also on the call are Don Civgin Head of Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter Head of Auto Home and Agencies.
Don Bailey who leads the Emerging Businesses will not be able to join us today since he's on the East Coast a result of Superstorm Sandy.
Last night we issued our press release and investor supplement and filed our 10-Q for the third quarter.
We also posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are all available on our website.
Beginning with Slide 1 this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
The actual results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2011 our 10-Q for the third quarter 2012 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
This discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
And I will be available after this call to answer any follow-up questions you may have.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom for his perspective on our performance.
Well good morning.
We appreciate you spending time with us today.
Before we discuss results let me say a few words about Hurricane Sandy which I know personally affected many of you.
First I hope you all are getting your lives back together.
As you know this was a massive storm affected most of the Eastern half of the country.
If you look on Slide 2 you can see the breadth of that.
Putting it in comparison to other events this is at least twice the breadth of Hurricane Katrina.
The good news is that the wind speeds were substantially lower than Katrina and more like last year's Hurricane Irene.
In fact the winds speeds were about 2/3 of Katrina.
And as you know the damage is exponential as that speed goes up.
And while it's of course too early to call ultimate damages several modelers have put out insured loss estimates Eqecat's at $5 billion to $10 billion AIR's at $7 billion to $15 billion with economic losses at twice that amount.
If the storm's damage is over $8 billion in insured losses that will make it the fifth-largest hurricane in U.S.
history.
Of course a lot of the damage at this point would appear to be caused by flooding.
That is covered by your auto insurance.
As you know the federal government provides flood insurance and it's typically not covered by people's homeowners insurance.
And of course in these times of trouble -- that's when our company Allstaters do great work on behalf of our customers.
We have 1 100 catastrophe claim adjusters out in the field as we speak; another 500 at our service centers.
We have 24 mobile claim centers.
We're reaching out to customers.
We're doing advertising.
We're walking the neighborhoods.
We are very proud of the fact that we are either among the first if not the first to be there for our customers and it's sort of a point of pride for us.
We're out there helping them find a place to live get food and clothing assess their losses.
And Allstaters really do an amazing job of providing for the needs of our customers being empathetic and supportive at this time.
As you know our customer focus is central to our strategy.
In fact we've just got the J.D.
Power Auto Claims Satisfaction results this week and our overall satisfaction on auto claims increased significantly.
We're now in the high satisfaction tier above the industry average and several other well-known insurance brands.
Now we all want to know of course how this storm -- much this storm will ultimately cost us and it's obviously too early to estimate the impact of that storm.
However the catastrophe is not expected to have a material impact on our overall financial condition.
Obviously at this time our focus is on our customers not our monetary losses.
Ultimately of course we do provide an estimate for cat losses in 1 month if it surpasses $150 million.
We typically do that by the third Thursday of the following month.
Because this event occurred at the end of a month and it involves such extensive damage we may not have enough information to develop a credible estimate by November 15.
This way that Thursday falls is really 15 days after the end of the month.
But as soon as we have an estimate we'll put one out.
Now let's move on to discuss results for the quarter.
I'll focus my remarks on our performance relative to our 2012 priorities.
And then Bob and Steve will cover the quarterly results in greater detail.
So moving to Slide 3.
Our strategy of course is to provide unique products to each of the 4 customer segments in the marketplace which you can see on the top there and it is working.
The Allstate brand serves those customers who prefer to purchase competitively priced branded products and want local advice and counsel.
In this business we've introduced several new differentiated products including Claim Satisfaction Guarantee Drive Wise Good Hands Roadside and House &amp; Home.
In the third quarter premium and unit growth continued to be impacted negatively by our efforts to improve homeowner returns broadly across the country and our actions to improve profitability in a few large auto states which as you know we started last year.
We did see positive premium growth in total for the Allstate brand as homeowners Emerging Businesses and standard auto outside of New York and Florida all contributed to that increase.
Additionally Allstate Financial's new issued life policies sold through the Allstate agencies to the customers in this segment increased as well.
And of course we continued to look for ways to improve the growth trajectory for standard auto one of our core lines identifying market opportunities to expand homeowners and Emerging Businesses and then support our agencies so that they can grow their business profitably.
In the self-directed segment that prefers a branded experience that's served by Esurance that's on the lower right.
Since they reported last October Esurance has exceeded our growth expectations with policies in force increasing 22% since the beginning of this year.
The GAAP combined ratio remained elevated as one would expect given the amount of new business we're writing and the way the accounting works for direct businesses.
We are closely watching the loss ratio since maintaining auto profitability is one of our core priorities.
Our progress is also evident in the advice in brand neutral customer segment that's up top served by Encompass.
The growth and profit trends for that brand are also positive.
If you move to Slide 4.
Let's review our financial performance for the third quarter.
On a consolidated basis we generated $723 million in net income and improved underlying margins and lower catastrophe losses while growing premiums.
Operating income of $717 million converts to $1.46 per diluted share and that's our best quarterly results in 5 years.
Our book value per share grew to $42.64 per share that's 22.4% better than the third quarter of 2011.
And lastly we produced a return on equity of 13.6% and 15% on a net income and operating income basis respectively.
That is on a trailing 12-month basis.
Now I recognize we set a goal of 13% operating income return by 2014.
Keep in mind that while we make good progress on improving the profitability of the business the weather has been fairly good over the last 12 months so there's more work to be done before we feel like we've achieved that goal.
We also established 4 priorities for 2012 and we are on pace to achieve all of them.
Maintaining auto margins is critical.
The underlying combined ratio in the quarter was 93.7 that's an improvement from the third quarter of 2011.
The homeowners' underlying combined ratio improved 7 points as rates continue to work into the P&amp;L and then the weather remained relatively benign and the benefit of our underwriting actions.
This is a result of 5 years of hard work to reposition this business.
Annuity returns remained relatively flat and the reduction in contractholder funds was lower due primarily to the low interest rate environment.
Going forward we'll continue to look for opportunities to accelerate that reduction.
Property-Liability insurance premiums grew 5% from the third quarter of 2011 largely due to the acquisition of Esurance.
Both the Allstate brand and Encompass produced positive premium growth rates in the quarter.
And at customer segments served by the Allstate Agencies however auto and homeowner policies declined.
Reversing this trend is a key priority for Matt's team.
But Don Bailey's team has done a nice job of repositioning Encompass and growing the roadside business with a new product.
Good Hands Roadside now has over 750 000 members.
We actually changed the disclosure in the investor supplement to see the policies in force in a slightly different way this quarter.
The Allstate Financial team led by Don Civgin is growing life sales through Allstate Agencies and the Benefits business.
Judy's team continues to proactively manage the investment portfolio which led to solid total return performance of 2.4% in the quarter and 6.3% through September.
Net investment income of $940 million declined 5.4% from last year's third quarter.
And that's primarily due to reduced Allstate Financial liabilities lower yields which of course we're all familiar with and then limited partnership results were down a little bit this quarter as well.
The portfolio net unrealized gain increased in value during the quarter to $5.7 billion at the end of September.
Now from a capital utilization perspective we repurchased $153 million of our stock and that's at a slower rate than in the previous quarter.
As we said in the third quarter as we moved through cat season we tend to slow that program down a little bit.
We feel good about the results for the year but also recognize there's a lot more work to be done.
So let's hear from Bob and Steve.
Thanks Don.
Let's take a closer look at the details for Property-Liability and Allstate Financial for the third quarter.
Beginning with Property-Liability on Slide 5 we show both the top line and combined ratio results.
Overall written premium grew 5% from the third quarter 2011 to $7.06 billion primarily due to the acquisition of Esurance.
The growth rate increased from the second quarter 2012 as both the Allstate and Encompass brands also contributed to the positive result.
Looking at the results by line Allstate brand standard auto declined by 0.2% from the third quarter 2011 and it was similar to the second quarter 2012.
Excluding New York and Florida the 2 states where we have implemented significant profit improvements over the last 18 to 24 months Allstate brand standard auto grew by 1.4%.
New issued applications of 460 000 remained slightly below the prior year but we're at the average level produced over the last 6 quarters which ranged from 451 000 to 472 000.
The retention ratio remained at 89.0% down 0.10% from the third quarter 2011.
Policies in force declined sequentially as the level of new business was not sufficient to offset the renewal losses Allstate brand homeowners' net written premium of $1.69 billion increased 3.2% compared to the third quarter of 2011.
The favorable impact of rate changes on average premium more than offset the decline in units.
We continued to see great changes in order to achieve our stated return goals.
In addition we are rolling out our new product House &amp; Home now in 17 states including 5 states that rolled out in the month of October.
Encompass continued to show positive results in both premiums and units with increases over prior year of 5.3% and 3.8% respectively.
Esurance contributed $282 million in premiums written during the third quarter and increased units sequentially to 962 000 a 22.4% gain since the beginning of the year.
On the bottom half of the slide we provide the combined ratio results for Property-Liability and by brand on a recorded and underlying basis.
The recorded combined ratio for Property-Liability was 90.2 significantly better than the prior year due primarily to lower catastrophe losses and an improvement in the underlying combined ratio.
Year-to-date September the underlying combined ratio was 87.4 or 1.5 points better than prior year and below the bottom of the outlook range we provided at the beginning of 2012 of 88 to 91.
If we matched the underlying combined ratio we recorded in the fourth quarter of last year of 90.7 it would put us in the lower end of that range.
Now this is not a prediction or a forecast just creating some context for why we didn't adjust the range at this time.
During the third quarter we completed our annual comprehensive review of the discontinued lines and coverages reserves.
We made some minor adjustments to the reserves for an impact of $42 million.
The recorded combined ratio results by brand indicates significant improvement for both the Allstate and Encompass brands due primarily to reduced catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio also improved for the Allstate brand and Encompass.
For Esurance the recorded and underlying combined ratios remained elevated.
On Slide 6 we provide charts detailing loss trends rate changes and combined ratio for Allstate brand's standard auto.
As shown in the upper left-hand corner after increasing over prior year in the second quarter gross frequencies for both bodily injury and property damage declined 1.2% from the third quarter 2011.
In the upper right-hand chart the calendar year paid severity results for property damage showed a little acceleration from second quarter increasing 3.9%.
Bodily injury calendar year paid severity rose to 6.8% increase over the third quarter of 2011.
The bodily injury severity tends to be volatile from period to period and the mix of state and report years contributes to it.
But over a 2-year period the increase is in line with inflationary factors.
There's some pressure on the most recent report years primarily in New York and Florida.
However the overall loss trends remained well within our pricing actions.
In the lower left hand chart we provide the approved rate changes for the last 4 years.
For the last 4 quarters we've averaged about 3% in standard auto rate changes.
And the lower right-hand chart displays the combined ratio trends since the beginning of 2010.
And over the last few years the combined ratios remained very consistent in the mid-90s range.
Slide 7 looks at the underlying combined ratio trend on the top of the page and the underlying margin components on the bottom of the page for standard auto.
In the top chart you see that we've averaged in the underlying combined ratio of 95.1 over the last 4 quarters.
Now on the bottom the page you can observe that the average earned premium which is the red line has remained above the average losses line shown in blue meaning that the margins are getting a little better each quarter.
Maintaining auto margins remains a top priority for us.
On Slide 8 we provide similar statistics for homeowners.
In the upper left we have approved rate changes for the last 5 years.
And over the last 4 quarters we've received approvals for almost 7% rate increases on a countrywide basis.
We will continue to seek needed rate changes in order to hit our return objectives for this line of insurance.
In the upper right loss cost trends excluding catastrophe losses are displayed.
For the third quarter frequency decreased 11.4% while paid severity increased 5.8%.
These results led to a reduction in the underlying combined ratio of 7.1 points as shown in the lower left.
We continue to believe that about 1/2 of the improvement in the underlying results is sustainable and 1/2 of the results of the milder weather.
On Slide 9 we provide -- or Slide 9 provides a better look at the underlying loss trends for homeowners.
The top chart gives the underlying combined ratio and one can observe the improvement we've achieved in the last several quarters.
On the bottom we display the trends for the average earned premium and average losses over time.
The trend for the average earned premium in red reflects the favorable impact of rates increasing steadily since 2010.
The trend for losses in blue was far below the prior year's and gives rise to our hesitation to take full credit for the margin improvement we've enjoyed this year.
That said improving homeowners' returns is a priority for 2012 and we have been successful thus far through the first 9 months.
Now turning to Allstate Financial where we continued to shift the focus to underwriting products and away from spread-based ones the results reflect successful execution of this strategy.
Total premiums and contract charges of $563 million increased 2% in total and 3.6% for underwritten products.
Allstate Agency life unit sales contributed to this results increasing 6.9% over the third quarter 2011.
Consistent with the strategy of reducing spread-based products contractholder funds were reduced by $722 million from the second quarter and $2.2 billion from year end 2011.
Given the low interest rate environment we've not made as much progress in reducing annuity liabilities as we would have liked and we continued to explore a variety of options to execute this strategy.
Net income for Allstate Financial was $131 million for the third quarter down $61 million from the third quarter 2011.
The primary reasons for this reduction were realized capital losses in 2012 versus realized capital gains in 2011 along with lower operating income results.
Last year we executed a sales program designed to harvest gains accounting for much of the difference.
Operating income was $97 million for the quarter.
During this quarter we completed our comprehensive review of assumptions for deferred policy acquisition or DAC deferred sales inducement costs and secondary guarantee liability balances.
This resulted in a $27 million pretax charge to income.
In 2011 we conducted this review in the first quarter of the year resulting in a $6 million pretax charge to income.
Looking at the operating returns by line life insurance declined 2.2 points to 9% from year end 2011 due to worse mortality experienced in the last several quarters and the impact of the annual DAC unlock study.
Accident and health continued to produce solid returns at 16.6% as of September 2012.
With that I'll turn it over to Steve.
Thanks Bob.
We continued to proactively balance portfolio yield and return objectives in this challenging low interest rate environment delivering strong investment results with a total portfolio return on a GAAP accounting basis of 2.4% for the quarter and 6.3% to the first 9 months of the year.
On Slide 11 you can see longer term trends in the composition of our portfolio.
We ended the third quarter at $93 billion in amortized cost and a fair value of $99 billion reflecting improved valuations which along with portfolio income and improved underwriting cash flows from our Property-Liability business more than offset the ongoing reduction from Allstate Financial's spread-based business.
The chart on the left-hand side chart of this slide helps to illustrate the results of our proactive steps to enhance the profile of our portfolio from a risk and return perspective.
Note that the drop in the portfolio's amortized cost resulted primarily from our planned reductions in Allstate Financial's liabilities.
As we headed into the financial crisis we proactively reduced financial sector and real estate related exposures while increasing the liquidity of the overall portfolio.
Coming out of the crisis we have favored the strong fundamentals and stability of credit including high yield over public equities.
During the most recent quarter we opportunistically reduced risk by selling $722 million of structured securities realizing a loss of $119 million.
The securities increased in value over the course of the year justifying the sale into a strong market.
Collectivity these actions have resulted in a strong well-positioned portfolio.
We have been proactively managing interest rate risks by optimizing our fixed income portfolio's position on the yield curve focusing on intermediate-term securities.
This will reduce reinvestment risk and lessen the sensitivity of our portfolio's value to increases in interest rates.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see the results of these actions in a scheduled maturity profile to the shift away from the due-after-10-years category.
We are contemplating reducing our interest rate risks in our Property-Liability portfolio further by selling additional long-dated securities and reinvesting shorter on yield curve.
We expect gains to be realized in the sales and the portfolio yields to decline as these sales and reinvestments are executed over the next several quarters.
If you turn to Slide 12 it highlights our portfolio income and yield trends.
For the third quarter of 2012 net investment income was $940 million and total portfolio yield was 44.3% below both the prior quarter and third quarter of 2011.
You may recall that we prospectively changed our classification of equity method limited partnership results to net investment income when realized capital gains at the beginning of the year which brought us in line with the reporting practices of other peers.
Although investment income on limited partnerships of $22 million is below the prior year quarter this income is $177 million higher on a year-to-date basis.
The increase reflects the change in classification as well as an improvement of $50 million in limited partnership performance.
Excluding limited partnership results the portfolio yield was comparable to last quarter and the third quarter of 2011.
On Slide 13 you can see that we realized losses of $72 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to a realized gain of $264 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Our portfolio management actions and other trading activities generated approximately $24 million in net trading losses including the $119 million loss from the sales of structured securities I mentioned earlier.
Impairment and intent write-downs are $46 million and continued to trend significantly lower than prior year periods.
Derivative results in the current year reflect reduced usage as we are managing more of our rate risk in the cash market in portfolio positioning and yield curve.
In the third quarter of 2011 interest rate derivative valuation losses reflect the significant decrease in rates in that period.
We finished the quarter in a strong capital position as shown on Slide 14.
Shareholders' equity of $20.8 billion increased $2.5 billion from year end 2011.
Statutory surplus rose to $17 billion and deployable assets of the holding company level reached $2.3 billion at the end of the third quarter.
We continued to buy back our stock purchasing $153 million during the quarter.
That leaves $166 million as of quarter end on our current $1 billion buyback authorization.
Our book value per share came in at $42.64 and the strength of our operating performance improved portfolio valuation and active capital management.
Now let's go to the question and answer session.
Okay Matt if you can start the Q&amp;A please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Josh Stirling of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> The question I would ask would -- recognize since you can't comment on an actual estimate of course it's way too premature.
But you are getting reports of first notice of loss.
You're out there in the field talking to customers.
You have some sense of the volume of the storm.
I'd love to get a sense from these operating metrics sort of where you are you've -- say in perspective in relation to Hurricane Irene last year.
And then similarly you probably are starting to get a sense of the mix and composition of the claims that you're actually going to have to adjust.
And I'd love to get a sense especially when we think about severity going forward.
Is this going to be driven by lots of large total unit losses or are you going to see more sort of modest -- far many but may be more than previously but sort of many more sort of smaller losses that are sort of damage to ancillary structures and things like that? Josh this is Tom.
You're correct in saying it's way too early.
Even on loss counts it's a little difficult because sometimes people have cell phones; they can get access to it.
Sometimes they don't.
I can tell you we're very busy.
We also do as you know flood adjusting for the federal government where right through on the flood we're one of the bigger handlers to the program as well.
So we take all of those claims in.
Anybody calls this customer we go out and see him.
So it's really too early to tell on either the volume the mix or the severity.
What I can tell you is when we do our estimate we'll try to give you as much information as we can at that point in time.
I can tell you that the -- from a risk management standpoint we are down in policy counts in all of the affected areas by a reasonably substantial amount.
And if you're interested in that Matt can give you some are details on it.
But we are -- the actions we've taken over the last 5 years in places like New York New Jersey all up along the East Coast have produced the policy counts we have there in the 10% to 30% range.
And that will obviously impact what our losses are relative to what they would have been.
But what you really want to know is what are they going to be and I can't give you any more clarity than that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I certainly understand.
The investors I think at this point are sort of obviously dealing with modeling firm estimates.
I think you guys are sort of sophisticated users of the models and you've got a lot of your own data and your own perspective over time.
I'm wondering what sort of -- to use the phrase sort of "known unknowns" model errors and sort of historic sort of biases that you think that historically perhaps we've seen that you guys might be watching for as you handicap the estimates themselves? And one topic of conversation I think that people are curious about is whether this has a possibility of being something like Ike which ended up going further inland and ended up driving sort of surprising levels of losses with what would have been perceived to be modest wind further inland than typically models would have suggested at the time.
Josh maybe I can give you a comment on the models and then a suggestion maybe on how I can help you sort out what you're trying to get as you look to impact on us.
If -- we do obviously have our own models.
We buy all the models from everybody else and we have our own policy data actually loaded into that so we have a wide range.
Matt and his team have done a number of scenarios.
It's a really wide range.
So that number could be low; it could be higher.
What I think we could do to give yourself some comfort as to how big it could be would be look at -- go to the website and put in gross losses into the reinsurance section.
It's got the interactive model which will tell you what the net ought to be.
And you can see that at certain levels our reinsurance programs kick in which caps our exposure.
Oh Bob tells me it's not interactive.
Sorry.
I guess the interactive part will be you'll have to sign in.
I thought we're a little more sophisticated than that Josh.
Sorry.
But Bob can help you.
We can help you out.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> I guess first time when I look at the auto results obviously very good.
I think you said it was a 93.7 I think accident year.
But if I add on it to the normal caps a couple of points that's high 95s which again is a solid result.
But I'm wondering can that get better? Can we get that -- in the past you've obviously seen low 90s but even in 94 95 is that possible given rates are starting to improve? Or is 96 kind of the best you can do in the current rate environment? First I just want to give one point of clarification.
The information we provided is calendar year not accident year.
So...
The underlying to that.
L.P.</strong> The underlying sorry.
What the underlying says...
L.P.</strong> But the underlying to those [ph] cats I took the underlying and added 2 points of normal cats to it.
Okay.
The way we look at the auto business is it generates really good returns for us so return on capital at that level -- we've shown some slides before -- depending what you want to assume in terms of capital levels is in the 20% range plus or minus.
That's a really attractive return on capital.
We'd like to grow that business at those kind of returns.
So I would rather see us grow it and maintain auto profitability than squeeze a few extra dollars out of margin.
L.P.</strong> That actually went into my follow-up which I was going to ask.
How is the outlook for that? I believe there was an internal memo that hit one of the newswires that suggested you're broadening your targets and maybe -- but trying not to seem to be a little bit more optimistic about growth going forward and certainly with competitors some of your big competitors having to chase rates to improve their profitability back to what it used to be.
It would seem maybe you're in a little bit of a sweet spot here? Let me maybe provide you an overview on growth in total and then Matt and Don can give you some more detailed perspectives on both the Allstate brand Esurance and Allstate Financial.
I think you have to think about it in total as you think about our strategy.
So first our strategy focused on these 4 segments have competitively differentiated products in those segments targeted to those customers.
The largest segment as you point out is the advise and brand focus one that's served by the Allstate Agencies.
The overall policies in force are down there which is largely as a result of the homeowners' actions we've taken which was intentional on our part to improve returns in that business.
Along with that standard auto is down a little bit partly due to the homeowners partly due to New York and Florida.
Matt can talk about what his opportunities are there to grow.
I think the biggest opportunity is to improve our customer retention because these new business levels are kind of running about where you expect them to be.
We have expanded the disclosure.
As I've mentioned earlier you can see Good Hands Roadside which serves that segment largely is up substantially.
But we don't count it as a policy since they don't pay us until they actually use it.
The advice and brand neutral segment that's served by Encompass that independent agency is up slightly.
We need to recapture some lost market share there.
Esurance is that self-served branded segment.
We're growing it a rate as fast as we're comfortable with.
And then Allstate Financial is growing the life policies sold to that lower left-hand segment and our Benefits business.
Matt do you want to make some comments more specifically to the -- I guess you are up to standard auto so we could zoom in there.
Sure.
It's Matt.
I'll comment a little bit first on the some of the drivers.
So Tom mentioned our 2 primary drivers that have impacted growth have been our homeowners' return improvement actions and some of the auto profitability issues in New York and Florida.
And I'll take it up one higher level and I'll say that I think our fundamental approach to the marketplace is to be very proactive and very disciplined.
And sometimes that creates a first mover disadvantage on us where we're first to take action where we see need to do risk mitigation we're first to take rate where we see emerging environmental and economic trends and we're first to take proactive action that actually can sometimes impact our growth prospects.
So I think you know that we have about 16 states where we're either closed for homeowners' new business or have significant new business restrictions in them.
I think Sandy is a good indication of why we did that and it will prove to have been a good move for us to reduce our exposure in some of these coastal areas.
But all of those actions whether they're profitability actions in New York and Florida on auto or these homeowner actions have an impact on our ability to grow.
And as Tom said you can't take all of these profitability actions.
You can't do the non-renewals.
You can't do reinspections.
You can't tighten underwriting without some impact on our retention and that is really what we see as our prime opportunity for growth at this point because we think we were early in most of these actions we were proactive.
And as a result I think we're further along on the timeline and we are at the point of stabilization and we are at the point where we are beginning to see pockets of growth.
You mentioned broadening the target.
We have several growth initiatives out there including broadening the targets and price optimization work some additional work to analyze our ability to grow even faster in selected areas.
And so yes we have those pockets of growth emerging.
We have about 20 states right now that had positive year-over-year growth in standard auto.
And our hope is over 2013 and 2014 we will dramatically improve that number without losing any of our discipline on the profitability side.
So our first mover disadvantage I think at some point will work into a first mover advantage where we will emerge out of this cycle faster than some of our peers and we'll be able to take some of the growth opportunities that are presented to us which I think are many at this point.
L.P.</strong> Great.
So it sounds like you'll be disappointed if we don't see growth in standard auto for 2013? I don't remember saying that exactly but you draw your own conclusion.
Ian it's Don.
Let me just give a quick update on Esurance.
As Tom said of course we acquired Esurance so that we could grow in that self-directed segment in a profitable way.
That's been the goal; it's to grow our market share profitability.
Since the acquisition we've done a number of things.
We've linked the brands together so it's Esurance and Allstate company which has played well.
We've clarified their position in the market through their features and their technology.
We've developed a new ad campaign and we've thrown a lot of weight behind the new ad campaign intentionally.
And here's how I would characterize where we are today.
I think we're very happy with the results we're seeing.
The response rate with new quotes is up dramatically.
The conversion rate is up; the retention rate is up I mean you can see it; over 22% improvement in policies since just the beginning of this year.
That's a big number.
What you're also seeing though is a high combined ratio.
Part of that is intentional.
The advertising model the accounting model is such that we have to expense that advertising in the quarter we take it even though the value of the policy continues to linger on through retention.
And so we are watching the GAAP combined ratio.
But I'll be honest we're more interested in the economic combined ratio.
If we're convinced that we're writing good business that will be profitable over its life and we are then we're comfortable tolerating the GAAP loss ratio being over 100 for some period of time.
We also have a little bit of an elevated loss ratio in the third quarter.
Gary and his team are watching it closely.
We're working together to make sure that we have all our resources between Allstate and Esurance on-the-job.
I'm confident that number will get back in line.
But all in all I'll tell you that the growth prospects for Esurance are going up so far very well and I think we're very optimistic about the future.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
I need some little bit of help on your reinsurance slideshow given that I can't plug this stuff into a spreadsheet.
You gave an example of a hurricane going through New Jersey which seems to have its own cover.
And there's 2 different covers which I don't quite understand how they interact.
But I think you talked about a $700 million type loss working its way down to $200 million net but maybe if you could just give -- if the number was $10 billion in the 3 states simply what the gross and the net numbers would play out that would be helpful.
Bob I can give you a call back later and we can walk through the steps.
The 3 contracts -- the contracts in New Jersey all work together.
So it's -- I'll give you rough numbers but it's about $150 million retention and then it's 95% reinsured up to the top of the contract.
So we can walk you through that.
That's New Jersey.
That's New Jersey property losses only.
That does not include auto.
Right.
And then of course -- and as I said auto flood is covered and it's at 21 states.
So it's a big storm.
But we can help you sort out here.
So if you had a $10 billion sort of loss in the other 2 states what would the net number be? First I assume you're talking about $10 billion as the industry level.
Right.
Right.
Let's say you had 10% to 12% of that so $1 billion gross what would the net be? I think it's highly dependent on the mix of which states and what type of losses.
But if you want and you come up with 2 or 3 different scenarios Bob can show you how those would work through the reinsurance program and you can come up with an estimate on it.
Okay.
I think others might be interested in this as well.
But on Encompass it looks like a mini-breakout from what's been a troubled line for a long long time.
I mean you're growing in premiums and the underlying underwriting is improving.
Am I overreacting to this quarter or are you -- do you think you got the horse running the right way around the track? Well I guess -- I would agree.
I think first this business is a good business for us to be in serving that customer segment.
Second as you know that business is probably down $700 million or so in premium over the last 3 or 4 years.
And so it's got some room to come back.
Some of that of course was intentional because we're in places we didn't want to be from a cap management standpoint but there is room to grow that business.
Three we do have new leadership there.
Don Bailey has got a new leader in place there.
We like the results that he and the team are now driving so I would hope to be able to see it continue to grow.
I'm not sure what breakout is.
We all have different assessments of breakout.
But I think if you look at what's going on in that customer segment and the companies who serve that segment largely through independent agencies I think we're well positioned to grow yes.
I was referring to the underlying profitability underlying combined ratio.
Oh breakout in the profitability.
Sorry I thought you meant breakout and growth.
Our profitability has gotten better.
I like the trends.
I don't -- I'd like to see it -- I'd like to see our combined ratios from down low but I'd like to see the business grow as well.
So I don't think we're going to -- this business as you know -- we've had that business -- shortly after we bought it we took the combined ratio down from 117 down into the low 90s.
I don't expect it to get into the low 90s at this point in this cycle given where our competitors are.
But I think it can be better than it is today and I think the business can grow at the same time.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions here for you.
The first one looking at the slide on the underlying margin trends on the standard auto business looking at your underlying lost trends and what's going on there.
I'm just curious maybe you can talk about kind of the difference between the paid loss trend in which you're showing here and the incurred loss trend.
Because the paid loss trend appears like in the last couple of quarters has been above where your average earned premium per policy has been.
Yes.
Brian it's Matt.
So you have all the issues that come up with paid loss trend and I guess BI paid severity is a good example of that.
So you look at BI paid severity and it looks fairly dramatic.
But as Bob said in his opening comments about 1/2 of that increase can be accounted for as a change in the mix of claims settled by report year and a shift in the state mix and the other 1/2 is consistent with the medical CPI.
So we do have I guess some distortion that's always present when you look at the paid versus incurred.
But I think if you look -- and I'm assuming you're referring to the bottom chart on Page 7 of the presentation the underlying margin trend.
I think if you look at that consistent pattern over the last several quarters with the nice trend line between earned premium and the losses I think our goal is to manage that and our goal is to look at the loss trends in aggregate.
I think it's somewhat dangerous to focus on the attribution analysis of each component.
We have a term Tom and I throw around a lot here.
It's "false precision." And we can get trapped in our own map and we look at it -- we do the attribution analysis and we try to understand each of the drivers whether they're medical inflation or whether they're a report year or a shift in state mix.
But then we look at the aggregate loss trends and the aggregate premium trends and we look at our rates that we're taking.
And our attempt is to manage some of those levers so that each of those -- on one quarter one is going to go up the other is going to go down.
It's like pushing on a balloon.
And our job is to manage the overall size of the balloon and how much air is in there and the pressure being exerted on it.
And I think history will show that our team is exceptionally good at managing that.
They manage each of the components.
They manage loss trends very carefully while maintaining a good customer experience and good customer treatment.
And they're very proactive in looking at emerging economic and environmental trends and taking rate where it's appropriate and warranted and mandated and justified.
And so I won't get too caught up in the paid volatility.
I get a little more focused on the underlying trends and that's why we tried to show them to you in the slide presentation.
Brian it's Bob.
Just a couple of things to keep in mind.
Remember while you're looking at the paid severity trends you also have to look at the frequency trends.
Frequencies are down.
And the fact that bodily injury and property damage together make up about 45% of the standard auto losses.
So there are other coverages that are in there -- collision comp uninsured motorist and everything -- where the trends are good as well.
So you're looking at 2 of the big covers but there are still other pieces to that puzzle and also the fact that I think you can tell from our reporting on reserves.
Our reserves are reasonable and they're accurate.
Research Division</strong> Yes you bet.
Absolutely.
And just one quick one on the life insurance business if possible.
Your investment spreads really kind of improved this quarter.
I wonder if there's anything unusual going on there.
Our investment spreads Brian did get a lot better.
I think you see several things going on.
Some of it is what you'd expect so we continue to work on crediting rates and that's being offset somewhat but the lower yields in the portfolio and the continuing lower asset levels.
But the investments spread the biggest impact is the option valuation from the equity index annuities.
I think if you look at apples to apples you're going to have to take that out and then you get back to what I said which is the crediting rates offset by yields and the asset levels.
Our next question is from Michael Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to Hurricane Sandy it looks like insurance regulators in at least a few impacted states are saying the storm won't technically be classified as a hurricane; therefore our hurricane deductibles won't apply.
So I was curious how the difference between a hurricane versus a tropical storm classification impact Allstate.
First if you're interested in the science of it a hurricane is -- it gets its energy from the water.
The winter storm or Northeaster gets its energy from the temperature differential in the air.
And  so that's why it's been classified that way.
The tropical cyclone deductible it probably will not be triggered up in the Northeast and we're prepared for that and that's what's fair and accurate for our customers.
It may or may not -- I'm not sure where we are down in the far Southern states.
There maybe a few states that would -- but the damage is much less severe down there than where the hurricane turned in.
Research Division</strong> So would you say the kind of estimates that a lot of the reputable firms are putting out there take into consideration that those -- the higher deductibles won't be triggered? I don't know for that.
I don't know Mike.
Not everybody has a tropical cyclone deductible.
I don't know how good their models are on that.
It's of course very complicated because even when you have it in the marketplace not every policy has it on it.
And so I would say to the extent it is not triggered industry losses would obviously be higher than when it is triggered because that's a higher deductible than you would have on a normal all peril policy.
But I don't think it would substantially alter the numbers which are such big wide slots anyway.
Now you know that the ranges are billions of dollars so I don't think it would impact it much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as -- in regards to Tom the 13% ROE target on a normalized catastrophe load basis obviously.
So where will most of the increase come from now given that you guys seem to be getting close to the goal within homeowners not looking to increase auto profitability? I guess I do recall at the Investor Day you talked about unlocking capital within the life insurance segment.
Maybe you can update us on that.
Okay.
First my entire team is raising their hands saying they're going to deliver it.
They each want to [indiscernible] First I think -- I would say we're above that target for the last 12 months and I think that is reflective of where we would hope it would come from which is maintaining auto margins improving returns in the homeowner business and getting returns up in the life business.
But of course there were 2 things that happened this quarter which we wouldn't expect to happen every quarter.
One is low path [ph] and the other is the change in the investment spreads that we just talked about.
So we still have work to do to fill up the profits ahead of that.
So homeowners is -- we feel very good about where it's at.
Matt and his team are working hard on it.
We've been at this for a while as you know.
We're definitely at a much better position.
And we're doing a good job on auto profitability.
We do have a little bit of a headwind in the life business with low interest rates which starts to drift over into the property casualty business.
We're going to work to manage our way through that and still achieve our goal but there's a little bit of a headwind there.
To the extent we can reduce the size of the annuity business faster we will seek to try to do that.
It was down about almost $4 billion over the last year.
I think it's like $3.8 billion.
But it was only down about $700 million in the last quarter.
So you can see that rate of decline is down a little bit and because of low interest rates and people don't want to surrender their policies.
So Don and his team are hard at work trying to figure out other ways we can reduce the size of the annuity business not the life business.
The life business is getting good returns for us the Life Insurance business.
So to the extent we can reduce that business that of course frees up capital and we get a higher return out of that as well.
So we have a little more work to do on all fronts but we're feeling better about where we're at.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
I guess just as a final follow-up then so within the Allstate Financial should we be looking at the statutory capital? Because that amount of capital has kind of been staying the same over the last year.
The annuity portfolio has been running off attrition in life has been growing.
So we should we expect -- should that number be expected to drift downwards if the current run rates continue? I would -- as the size of -- as Steve pointed out the size of that portfolio is down about $20 billion or so in the last 3 or 4 years.
As that size of that portfolio comes down I would hope we could have dividends out of that business which would be the statutory capital yes.
Our next question is from Matthew Heimermann of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One just on homeowners I was just trying to get a better sense of what the underlying improvement was.
On my math kind of adjusting for the non-cat weather that you've benefited -- you've quantified in previous quarters.
It looks like year-to-date we've got about 470 basis points of improvement which is a little faster than I think the run rate you all have talked about in the past and I'm just curious if you could remind us -- I think the difference is there was some adverse weather in 2011.
So just remind me if I'm thinking about kind of the puts and takes right.
Matt it's Matt.
I'm trying to understand your question a little bit.
Are you asking about what component is sustainable and what is -- what component is based upon the lower-than-normal cat? Research Division</strong> Well you've quantified the lower-than-normal cat so if I look at just loss ratio I'm getting year-to-date improvement 9 months over 9 months of about 470 basis points.
And I think historically when you've talked about -- so that seems high to me relative to what you've talked about kind of your expectations of core margin improvement.
So one I guess comment on whether or not that perception is correct about how 470 might compare to your run rate expectation.
And then secondly if it is in fact a little bit faster is that attributable to the fact about 2011 I think in 1Q in particular had some unfavorable weather that might be making that look little bit better.
I'm just asking because I want to make sure that as I think about next year I'm not botching anything up.
Well that is true.
So we had some unfavorable weather that exacerbates the year-over-year view.
But also I think the other way of looking at this is that this is a fairly volatile business and trying to do it over year-over-year while we're declining and if in selected areas on the coast is a little distorted because we're changing the mix of the housing we're changing the risk profile of the homeowners business as an overall block.
And so trying to compare year-over-year as if it's a stagnant steady mix is a little distorted.
I think we're changing the risk profile of the business a little.
House &amp; Home as you know it's gone in.
It was 12 states in the third quarter as I think Tom mentioned another 5 in October so 17 states.
That  has a different risk profile.
And we underwrite roofs differently.
We assess the risks differently using some tools that we're used to using on the auto business.
And so while -- we are seeing normal year-over-year improvements where you could back out some of the things we're also seeing a changing homeowners business which I think is going to continue to improve.
And so I would say that the quality of what is there is higher than it was even a year ago.
And I think a lot of what you're seeing that you can't get to mathematically is a result of that change in quality of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we play that forward in the next year do you feel like -- is that something that we should expect to continue to help a little bit on the margin as we go into next year or now we kind of -- is the impact going to be a less dramatic? Well it will be less dramatic.
As we put in House &amp; Home we try to put it in the highest leverage areas first.
And so we clearly wanted to maximize the early impact of the shift.
And a lot of our efforts on nonrenewal and reduction of homeowners in the coastal areas and high-risk areas is well into the latter part of the timeline.
So I would not straight-line it.
I think you'll see a continued improvement as a result of those 2 efforts but not at the same pace as we've currently experienced it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Sorry that it took so long for me to ask the question in a way that made sense.
No no no.
I'm sorry I was struggling with where you were going with it so I wanted to make sure I was answering what you were truly asking.
Research Division</strong> Yes and that was helpful.
Then I guess just one on Sandy.
And this just goes to -- one of the -- I'm going to bring up Katrina not because I think that should be the baseline when we think about the loss but because there were a lot of adjusting issues because surge is really a big potential loss driver here.
Whether it's insured or uninsured or government insured is a different question.
But Katrina right there were some regulatory push to cover flood losses.
But wind -- and there was a lot of gray as to what caught -- and in some cases because there was a lot of gray and there weren't houses left to actually adjust.
I'm curious when you think about Sandy based on -- and I know it's early but do you think -- how is the gray area in this loss wind versus flood on the personal line side contrast with kind of your experience with Katrina? Is that something that gives you a lot of pause recognizing that normally when you get big events the tides usually go to policy holders.
But I'm just curious more whether or not there will be as much gray.
Let me give you a quick answer because I want to make sure we get a couple of other questions in here.
Of course it's too hard to tell I haven't been on the ground out there so it's hard for me to see.
I will tell you that as it relates to Katrina we did very well on wind versus flood.
We were proactive about our approach to that.
And of course the issue there was a house on the coast big hurricane comes house is gone.
Was it the wave and then the wind came? Or was it the wind and then the wave came? And trying to sort that out.
That doesn't appear to be the situation here but it's way too early to tell what the issues will be.
I will tell you that we have a history though of doing what's right for our customers and giving them what they paid for.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> How aggressively do you plan on rolling out Drive Wise next year? And is your intent to use that to augment growth augment profitability or both? Well we don't disclose which states we're going to do it in Adam.
But I will tell you we like what we see.
The customer uptake is a little higher than we thought it would be initially.
We think we have a slightly different offering than other people because the device stays in the car as opposed to coming out of the car which gives us the ability to have a different customer relationship which says that it should work on both of the elements you've talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up question.
It appears that you make more money this year than you have in probably 4 or 5 years.
How is that going to reflect when you think about the buyback for next year? Well obviously I can't comment of what we'll make this year because we're still trying to sort out with Sandy.
But I'd like that to be the case obviously.
And let me maybe just go up to capital.
We are obviously well capitalized.
Today we have plenty of capital any which measure you want to put it at.
We also generate substantial capital.
And we have access to capital in the marketplace.
So we have 3 sources of funds from which we could buy back shares or use our capital to grow the business.
Obviously our preferred option is to grow the business particularly in the auto business where we're getting very high returns.
Occasionally we make what I would call modest acquisitions whether it be Esurance or Encompass or the Benefits business we bought.
And we've gotten good returns on those but those tended not -- they tend not to be a big portion of our utilization of capital.
Of course as you know about 80% of the capital we returned to shareholders through dividends or share repurchases.
And that has been our history for a long time.
When you look at dividends we of course make the decision -- the board makes the decision every quarter.
Right now when you look at our dividend rates whether that be payout or yield they look a little low relative to where our stock price is and earnings are.
So we'll consider that in the beginning of the year as to what we should do with the dividend.
And then on share repurchases we're not obviously done with the current program.
When we are we'll look at all the sources of capital we have either the capital on our balance sheet today our capital generation potential or ability to access capital because as you know there are some pretty attractive markets today with our equity life securities to use that to restructure and lower our cost of capital.
So that's the way we think about it.
When we get done with this which we're pretty close now we'll be thinking our way through them.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
One question I just have when you look at insured losses that will come out of Sandy do you -- how much of that end up getting absorbed or do you think will end up getting absorbed by the National Flood Insurance Program? Really hard to tell Mike.
We don't really -- it's almost impossible to tell right now.
I would tell you but you want to go way up.
The National Flood Insurance Program ends up being a net drain on the U.S.
government.
It really is -- if it was your business you would seek to restructure that business charge of the accurate prices relative to where people's houses were.
You'd try to expand the coverages so you weren't only ensuring those houses that get flooded 2 and 3 times.
So there is -- I think -- and Congress has struggled with that over time but their losses are -- the net losses will probably end up being bigger than they would need to be if you brand it as a private business rather than as a political entity.
I can't give any estimates for the exact number.
I have no idea.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just maybe one on Allstate Financial.
I mean it seems like I mean you're clearly moving towards a more underwritten profile as opposed to a spread business.
I mean what is your kind of expectation for that business longer-term? I mean it doesn't seem like other than the life products now it doesn't seems like there's a lot of operational synergy or overlap with your kind of captive agent platform.
I'm just trying to understand kind of where do you see that business moving as you execute your transitional strategy there? Okay.
Well we look at it a couple of ways Mike.
First we look at it strategically as it relates to our customers and then we'd look at it to say where do we get a decent returns.
So strategically as it relates to those personal touch point [ph] down in the lower left-hand corner want advice and a relationship and want branded products.
They want to buy all things -- more things from one person rather than multiple people because they don't just feel like having 15 different relationships.
Life insurance some retirement products obviously fit into that category and we do well there.
The life sales I think are up 6% or 7% this year so far.
And we like what we have there in terms of bundling that together.
That's good for the customers.
That said it doesn't mean we need to make everything we sell.
So we sold the VA business in 2006.
Our fixed annuity business today we use a lot of outsourced products.
We have some proprietary products still in that channel but we use outsourced products.
We could -- on the Annuity business if you don't like the return now we'll just sell an outsourced product with someone who has a different return objective on it.
On the Life Insurance business itself just life insurance policies we're getting pretty good returns on our capital well above our cost of capital there.
And so we've done that.
But we try to separate it into 2 things: what do we need to do for our customers and then what do we need to do for our shareholders.
And we manage our way through that.
And that's why we're taking the size of that annuity business down is we don't need to have shareholder capital employed in that to execute our strategy.
And our final question today is from Randy Binner of FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is another Allstate Financial question.
But I appreciate all the commentary on trying to kind of redeploy capital out of particularly the annuity business into what you've perceived to be higher kind of better risk-adjusted returns in really the other protection businesses.
And so I guess just as I think about modeling to the extent that you're successful in kind of getting folks to give up those annuities and then you're able to free up capital from the annuity business that takes time and then reallocate it I'm just trying to think if there is going to be kind of a donut hole or a lag in the earnings that you generate as you kind of transfer that capital around.
And so you know I guess I'd be kind of interested in your thoughts on that approach kind of how that affects 2013 earnings.
And then I'm not sure if I've heard this in the commentary but are you thinking about kind of more aggressively trying to go after annuity holders and maybe giving them lump sum payouts or other incentives to surrender? On the last part of your question the answer would be yes we are actively looking at that.
On the 2013 earnings capital generated from accomplishing that I would say it's not likely to have a meaningful impact on overall earnings.
So if it -- if you just -- you could do the math.
For every $100 million of earnings of Allstate Financial even if you redeploy it into some of that business we could redeploy it get a higher return than what's it's getting today even in investing.
But it would not be meaningful to force.
Research Division</strong> So I guess it happens gradually enough over time that there isn't a big block of capital that go -- it needs to get upstream then reallocated and then earned against.
It's more of a gradual process because -- I guess in our model it seems like as you move capital out there's a little bit of a lag but it sounds like it's more of a gradual process from your perspective.
I would say -- yes I'm sure there's a lag but it's not in terms of the overall scope and projections of the company.
If you would change auto frequency by 0.5 point it would have a bigger impact than this would.
So you're right.
But I would just say as it relates to Allstate Financial we're approaching it as a "do it smart do it when you can." And so don't look for sort of a simple easy solution where it all goes -- you just change it all.
And it's got a kind of do it by line.
So Don got the annuity business broken into a whole bunch of different segments some he cares more about than others.
And those that are the biggest in the hole he's working harder on and those that are earning a positive or above cost of capital return.
So it's highly segmented this strategy.
Let me close and just say first thank you.
We had a good quarter.
We're on track for all of our core priorities.
If those of you who are still on the queue Bob is available today working all day.
So feel free to reach out or he'll reach out to you.
And as it relates to Sandy we're working hard to do what our customers pay us for.
We'll provide additional perspective on loss estimates when we can give you a more informed perspective.
So thank you very much and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for taking the time today to be part of our Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
We'll begin with some brief commentary on our results from Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and me followed by a question-and-answer period.
On the call with us today are Don Bailey Head of Emerging Businesses and Encompass; Don Civgin Head of Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; and Matt Winter Head of Auto Home and Agencies.
Last night we issued our press release and investor supplement as well as posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are available on our website.
We plan to file our 10-K for 2012 by the end of February.
Beginning with the first slide this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstates operations.
Actual results may differ materially from those statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2011 our 10-Q for the third quarter of 2012 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
Recording of this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have once this call is completed.
Now let's begin with Tom.
Well good morning and thanks again for your interest in Allstate.
Today I'll cover our results in relationship to our strategy in 2012 priorities then I'll cover our priorities for 2013.
Bob will cover our business unit results and Steve will cover investment performance and capital management.
But before we go through 2012 let me just update everybody on Sandy and the progress we've made in helping our customers restore their lives.
So as you know Sandy was a huge storm affected an enormous heavily populated area and of course many of you personally.
We're one of the first insurance companies on the scene to help our customers.
With our mobile units we often got to customers' homes before they even called us.
Now we received about 170 000 claims to date and we've closed 98% of the claims reported.
We paid about 95% of our expected net losses.
Now we did update our initial loss estimate which was as you'll remember $1 075 000 000 to $1 117 000 000.
That's $42 million increase.
And our losses of course would have been significantly higher had we not taken the actions we did due to catastrophic exposures over the prior 6 years.
And of course while the numbers are large the real significance is the fabulous work that the Allstaters had done for our customers whether that's our claim professionals our local agency owners or the thousands of other key members across the country that sort of rose to the occasion helping those people rebuild their lives.
We're very proud of what we've gotten accomplished and we know our customers are happy as well.
Our customer-focused strategy is to provide unique products and services to distinct customer segments which is based on their preferences for price service and delivery channel.
That's shown on Slide 2.
You can -- there's the 4 segments we have there.
The Allstate brand serves customers who prefer local advice and assistance and branded products.
That's in the lower left side of that slide.
In 2012 we introduced our expanded -- or expanded new products and services like Claim Sat Guarantee Drive Wise Good Hands Roadside and House &amp; Home to differentiate Allstate from the competition.
The Allstate brand profitably grew the top line in 2012 primarily on the strength of increased average premium for auto and homeowners.
It generated a total underlying combined ratio in the mid-80s.
Now policies in force did decline for the full year.
But in the fourth quarter we began to reduce the negative impact of auto profitability improvement actions in New York and Florida and our long-term program to raise returns in the homeowners business.
Allstate brand premium growth did accelerate at the end of the year in auto homeowners Emerging Businesses and Canada.
Esurance which serves the self-directed customer segment in the lower right continued to exceed expectations from the top line perspective producing net written premiums over $1 billion for the year and unit growth of 31% year-over-year.
The combined ratio remains elevated given the rapid growth but we continue to monitor the long-term profit estimates and adjust pricing as needed and we're comfortable with the economics of that business.
The advice-seeking brand new to our customer segment is in the upper left.
That's served by Encompass which of course distributes to independent agencies.
Our strategy is to serve this market with a differentiated package policy.
That gained traction throughout 2012 with top line growth of 5.3% compared to 2011 and 8.2% in the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
The underlying combined ratio was 96 for the year.
But given the property risk in that business we need to further improve profitability in that segment.
Answer Financial is in the upper right.
That serves self-directed brand neutral customers.
That's broker and policies some leads received from Esurance and third parties.
This business generated nonproprietary premiums which don't show up in our top line of over $400 million for the year.
This represents an increase of 9% from 2001.
So these results show that our strategy of providing differentiated products and services to a unique customer segment is working.
We also had strong operating results in 2012 as shown on Slide 3.
On a consolidated basis we generated $2.3 billion in net income.
That's an increase of $1.5 billion from 2011.
[Technical Difficulty] Excuse me is somebody not on mute? Okay.
Well with that weather forecast let me keep going.
So operating converted $2.1 billion.
Our book value per share rose over 17% to $42.39 per share.
That's at the year-end 2012.
We produced a net income return on equity of 11.9% and an operating income ROE of 12.4%.
The underlying property-liability combined ratio was 87.2 which compares favorably to our outlook range of 88 to 91 at this time last year.
That was a result of both excellent execution and favorable weather.
As we discussed throughout 2012 we have 4 priorities for that year: One maintain our profitability; two raise returns in homeowners and annuity businesses; three we want to grow insurance premiums; and four proactively manage our investments and capital.
And we accomplished all of those goals last year.
We maintained auto profitability with an Allstate brand standard auto combined ratio of 96.1 which is a slight increase from 2011.
That's primarily due to the effects of Sandy.
The underlying combined ratio for the Allstate brand standard auto was 94.0 which is compared to 95.3 in 2011.
Homeowners profitability was improved with an underlying combined ratio for the Allstate brand homeowners of 65.1.
That's a 5.8% -- or 5.8 point improvement from 2011.
The recorded combined ratio for the year was 88.0 which included Sandy and the other catastrophes we experienced throughout 2012 but it was helped by prior year catastrophe reserve releases.
This result shows that our efforts over last 4 years are working.
We also benefited from milder-than-expected weather outside of catastrophes which we do not expect to be the case in 2013.
Annuity returns also improved on strong limited partnership income results.
That said low interest rates will continue to put negative pressure on returns from this line.
In total property-liability net written premiums grew 4% from 2011 as we just discussed.
Additionally issued life insurance policies through the Allstate agencies increased 9.3% for the year while Allstate Benefits grew new business written premium by 6.5% over the prior year.
Our investment portfolio generated a total return of 7.3% reflecting proactive portfolio actions and the decline in interest rate.
Portfolios have been supported by strong limited partnership results mostly offsetting the downward pressure caused by lower reinvestment rate.
From a capital management perspective we repurchased $910 million worth of our shares in 2012.
That's completing the $1 billion buyback we started last year in 2011 and then we initiated another $1 billion buyback in December to be funded by issuing a light to modest subordinated debentures.
When you add in dividends we returned over $1.3 billion to shareholders.
Reflecting the confidence and the execution of our strategy and operating plans we raised the quarterly dividend by 13.6% to $0.25 per share for the first quarter of this year and we authorized an additional $1 billion share buyback to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2014.
Looking forward for 2013 our priorities are very similar to last year's but with an increased emphasis on growth.
If you go to Slide 4.
They're to grow our insurance premiums maintain our auto profitability raised returns and homeowners and annuity businesses and proactively manage our investments.
We're adding a fifth priority which is to reduce our cost structure.
Now effective expense management has always be a part of our disciplined approach to business.
We always work hard on keeping our expenses down.
But given the difficult economic climate our customers are facing we're adding this priority to heighten our focus on what customers are really willing to pay for.
Finally in keeping with our practice to provide you with an outlook for our property-liability underwriting -- underlying combined ratio in 2013 we set a range of 88 to 90 which is 1 point narrower than last year's.
This outlook reflects the more stable base of auto profitability and the actions taken to combine to erase homeowner rates partially offsetting is an expectation for a higher non-catastrophe frequency with more normal weather.
And with that I'll turn it over to Bob to cover the details of the business unit results.
Thanks Tom.
Let's review the results for property-liability in Allstate Financial.
On Slide 5 which provides the details for property-liability net written premium and policies in force.
For Allstate brand standard auto at $15.7 billion.
The net written premium was essentially flat for the year.
We did post positive premium growth over prior year for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Increased average premium and a slightly higher renewal ratio more than offset a small decline in new issued applications.
Units declined 0.9% from -- in 2012 from 2011 but sequentially were flat to the end of the third quarter 2012.
We received approval for rate increases averaging 3.1% on a countrywide basis over the course of 2012 in keeping with our priority of maintaining auto profitability.
Allstate brand homeowners increased net written premium in the fourth quarter and the year by 3.4% and 2.8% respectively.
The quarter's result was driven by a 7.1% increase in average premium on a gross written basis and an increase in new issued applications partially offset by a decline in retention.
Approved rate changes averaged more over 6% in 2012 on a countrywide basis as -- to improve the margins in homeowners.
Emerging businesses Encompass Canada and Esurance all contributed positive net written premium growth in 2012.
On Slide 6 we provide a breakdown of our combined ratio for the year and for the fourth quarter.
And just a few points.
For the year we recorded a combined ratio of 95.5 an improvement of 7.9 points from 2011 as we maintained our margins in auto and significantly improved our margins in homeowners.
The Allstate and Encompass brands saw material improvements in the recorded combined ratios in 2012 much of it coming from lower catastrophe losses.
The 2012 property-liability underlying combined ratio was 87.2 better than the range of 88 91 which we provided at the beginning of 2012.
In addition to maintaining discipline in pricing and claims management we benefited from very favorable non-catastrophe weather during the year.
Our 2013 underlying combined ratio outlook range is 88 to 90 and represents an improvement from the outlook we provided in 2012.
It also factors in a return to more normal non-cat weather trends for the year.
Loss cost trends for the Allstate brand standard auto modestly improved in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On Slide 7 reported frequencies bodily injury and property damage which are shown in the upper left of the chart declined 2.1% and 3.7% for the quarter -- from the fourth quarter 2011.
For the year frequencies for both coverages declined relative to 2011.
Paid severity shown in the upper right also moderated in the quarter with bodily injury increasing 5.2% and property damage increasing only 0.4%.
For 2012 the paid severities for bodily injury and property damage increased 4.1% and 3.0% respectively.
When you add the results from the other coverages in auto with our rate actions over time you get a fairly steady combined ratio result as shown by the graph in the lower right-hand corner of Slide 7.
Maintaining auto profitability remains a critical priority for us and one in which we have a history of success as depicted on Slide 8.
In the top chart we have posted an Allstate brand standard auto underlying combined ratio of 95 or better in every quarter but 2 for the 4 years shown in the chart.
The chart at the bottom shows the improved results for average earned premium which is the red line and the very favorable loss trends in 2012 which is in -- the blue line which we expect to moderate in 2013.
A similar set of charts are included for homeowners on Slides 9 and 10.
Non-catastrophe loss costs remained below prior year levels in the fourth quarter as reported frequency declined 10% while paid severity increased 6% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 shown in the upper right on Slide 9.
With the loss cost trends declining and average earned premium increasing over 9% in the fourth quarter the underlying combined ratio continued to improve to 62.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The 4.6 point improvement from the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the year the underlying combined ratio was 65.1% 5.8 points better than 2011.
Referring to the chart in the bottom of Slide 10 average earned premium has steadily increased due to the impact of our rate actions taken over the last several years.
The loss trend has been very favorable for the entire year a trend we expect to moderate in 2013.
Moving to Allstate Financial on Slide 11.
We've continued to focus on growing underwritten products sold through Allstate agencies and Allstate Benefits further reducing the concentration of the spread base products.
This shift will improve returns.
Total premiums and contract charges on underwritten products increased 3.8% for the year and 4.9% for the fourth quarter.
In 2012 issued life insurance policies sold through Allstate agencies increased 9.3% for the year and 11.9% in the fourth quarter relative to comparable periods in 2011.
New net written premiums produced by Allstate Benefits rose 6.5% for the year compared to 2011 and 13.3% for the fourth quarter when a significant portion of the business is written as part of the annual enrollments season.
Allstate Financial generated net income of $541 million a decline from 2011's net income of $590 million driven by after-tax net realized capital losses in 2012 compared to realized capital gains in 2011 partially offset by a reserve release in 2012 associated with the nonroutine valuation adjustment for derivatives embedded in equity-indexed annuities and a 4.3% increase in operating income.
The increase in operating income was due to an increase in the investment spread driven primarily by the reclassification of equity method limited partnership income from realized capital gains to investment income beginning in 2012 partially offset by a decreased benefit spread and increased expenses.
For the quarter net income was $166 million a $31 million increase from the fourth quarter of 2011 with operating income of $144 million a $14 million or 10.8% increase from the prior year quarter.
Operating income return on equity of 8% declined 30 basis points in 2012 from 2011 as higher operating income was more than offset by the growth of capital due to the accumulation of undistributed profits.
Lastly ongoing efforts to reduce exposure to spread-based business drove a decline in contract holder funds of just over $3 billion bringing the balance in contract holder funds to $39.3 billion at the end -- at year-end 2012.
We continue to review options to reduce the size and improve the returns of the spread-based businesses.
With that let's hear from Steve.
Thanks Bob.
We delivered strong investment results in the fourth quarter and for the year as we balance portfolio yield risk and return objectives in the current low interest rate environment while proactively positioning the portfolio for an eventual rise in interest rates.
On Slide 12 you see our portfolio total return of 7.3% for the year driven by significant fixed income and equity appreciation coupled with state [ph] net investment income.
The returns reflect positive contributions across the entire portfolio.
For the fourth quarter net investment income was $1 033 000 000 and the annualized portfolio yield was 4.7% reflecting an increase over both the prior quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase includes the impact of our change in classification of equity method limited partnership results to net investment income from realized capital gains that Bob noted a bit earlier.
Excluding limited partnership results that investment income was above the prior quarter reflecting higher equity dividends but lower than the fourth quarter of 2011 consistent with the smaller Allstate Financial portfolio and impact of lower reinvestment yields.
Also on this slide is the size and composition of our overall portfolio.
We ended 2012 with a carrying value of $97 billion reflecting the improved valuations which more than offset the ongoing reduction of Allstate Financials spread-based business.
So in 2012 we continue to favor this ability of corporate credit including an increased allocation of high yield bonds.
Slide 13 highlights trends in the portfolio unrealized gain yield maturity profile.
The chart on the upper left shows the trend in pretax unrealized net capital gains.
We ended 2012 with an unrealized gains of $5.55 billion reflecting an increase of $2.67 billion over year-end 2011.
The increase is primarily in the fixed income portfolio and resulted from tighter credit spreads and lower interest rates.
In the fourth quarter we further reduced interest rate risk in our property-liability portfolio shifting out of longer maturity assets.
These and similar future actions will better position the portfolio for an eventual rise in interest rates.
The sale of longer-term security pulls forward future income to the realization of gains.
We expect this activity to contribute to a decline in our property-liability portfolio yield and net investment income.
The chart on the upper right illustrates a shift in our fixed income maturity profile resulting from our proactive management of interest rate risk over the past several years.
Our actions are repositioned to fixed income portfolio include shifting out of longer-term municipal and corporate bonds and shorter-term lower-yielding treasuries in immediate term bonds.
We expect our continued reinvestment in the current low rate environment portfolio actions to reduce interest rate risk and the ongoing reduction of Allstate financials liabilities to further pressure investment income and portfolio yields going forward.
We finished the quarter in a strong capital position as you can see on Slide 14.
Shareholders' equity of $20.6 billion increased $2.3 billion at year end 2011.
Statutory surplus rose at $17.2 billion.
And deployable assets at the holding company level were $2.1 billion at year end.
Our book value per share came in at $42.39 17.2% higher than the year-end 2011 on the strength of our operating performance improved portfolio valuation and active capital management.
We returned $1.3 billion to shareholders during 2012 through dividends and share repurchases.
Yesterday the Board increased our quarterly dividend to $0.25 a $0.03 per quarter or 13.6% increase.
We completed the November 2011 our share repurchase program during the fourth quarter began repurchases under renewed $1 billion program authorized by the Board in December to be financed through hybrid security issuances.
The Board also authorized an additional $1 billion repurchase program yesterday bringing our total buyback program to $2 billion to be executed through March 2014.
Now let's go to the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First I want to point out that I believe it's the first time that Allstate brands premiums were in positive territory on growth for the first time in 11 quarters.
So I want to get your perspective on whether you feel that trend could continue in light of pit [ph] growth still being negative.
This is Tom.
I'll give you a perspective and Matt might want to jump in as well.
First you're right.
Premiums have gone up that is as we pointed out largely a result of higher average premiums in the homeowners business.
The actions we've taken over that period of time and actually beginning before 11 quarters ago is really to reduce our catastrophe exposure by getting smaller homeowners.
As you know we're down like 1.2 million homeowner policies in the last 4 years.
That has obviously had an impact on our auto business as the actions we took in New York and Florida which were proactive and fast that we went on that one hard which hit both of our -- also hit auto growth.
Matt has a number of plans going on to try to turn that around and maybe he wants to make a few comments about the strategy to movement both -- I think it was really after his items and of course our policy than opposed to premiums.
Jay it's Matt.
Look the way we look at this is the last several years have been stabilization year as we -- couple of stabilization years as we wanted to ensure that we were charging an appropriate rate and getting the appropriate returns in the business.
We are continuing to focus on top line and if -- and we'll continue to do that as long as we're able to do that in an economic manner.
We look at a couple of indicators.
We look at -- on the homeowners side we look at new business and we look at retention.
And as you see in Page 28 of the sup new business was up 5.8 above prior year in the fourth quarter and the trend was extremely positively started first quarter at minus 11.4 second quarter was minus 5.7 third quarter flattened out and the fourth quarter we were at positive 5.8.
You add to that the retention side of it.
And as we've slowed down the nonrenewal actions and as we've focused more intensively on the customer experience we've seen the gap to prior year retention improving each quarter and it improved in the fourth quarter to just minus 0.6.
So on the homeowners side you take that boost to new business retention getting better nonrenewal actions declining greater focus on customer experience the impact of House &amp; Home which we rolled out to 17 states in 2012 and we have another 12 additional states planned for this year and in those dates production is up extremely strong.
And so we have a good story on the homeowners side.
Not only does that help homeowners revenue and if but it helps auto as well due to the bundling.
And you look at the same 2 factors on the auto side and although new business continues to run below prior year the gap got smaller in the second half of 2012 if you look at the first half versus prior year versus second half versus prior year it's dramatically different.
First quarter I think we were down almost 11%; second quarter down 3%; and then third and fourth it was down 1.3%.
So clearly moderating on the new business side and retention improved.
So as you can see on Page 28 of the sup the retention trend has been pretty stable at 89 the past 3 quarters.
We got a boost from Florida and in the fourth quarter where their retention improved and we've stabilized things in Florida and New York as Tom said.
And so we think we're pretty well positioned to change the momentum and change these trend lines.
We've been moderating a lot in the last quarter and we're cautiously optimistic.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I also wanted to touch base on the comment about expense management.
The P&amp;C expense ratio was 26.5% in 2012.
It's up from around 25% in the 2010 time frame.
Is that a good way to think about it in terms of where Allstate wants to get the expense ratio back to? Jay a better way to look at it is by segment.
So look at the expense ratio for Esurance you'll see that's substantially higher than net average.
And that's because of course it's all front-end loaded with advertising expenses.
Then you can look at the Allstate Agency piece and then you can look at the Encompass piece.
And our goal is to have a highly competitive expense position in each of those segments which is relative to the way in which you go to market and the services you provide to your customers.
So for example in the Allstate Agency channel our agencies provide ongoing service and counseling for our customers which is why they get a renewal commission.
You don't have that in the Esurance business model because those customers don't want that.
So you have to really look at it by segment.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question regards to the 88 to 90 underlying combined ratio guidance.
So that's I believe this year it was lower than 88.
You guys are hoping to maintain auto or the goal is to maintain auto and try to continue the improvement in homeowners.
So that would -- so I guess basically is the delta there kind of the -- you guys don't expect the lower non-cat weather to occur? And if so could you size up what benefit you guys have from that in the full year? Yes.
It's good -- good question Mike.
Let me address.
So 88 to 90 last year we had a 3-point spread this year it's a 2-point spread and that's largely based on our confidence that the actions that Matt's team has taken in New York and Florida are working and we like what we see there so we can have a narrower range.
Secondly then you say "Okay but your still -- range is still above where you are this year." I think you really have to -- it is the weather.
It's a reflection of a return to more normal frequency in auto and homeowner business.
December was an incredibly strong month for us.
If you look at the underlying combined ratio in homeowners for the fourth quarter it was like 62 in change.
I don't think the business is operating at this point at that big a delta versus where it was last quarter -- the fourth quarter of last year.
So just some of that is weather.
Doing a variance analysis on weather it's possible.
But it's -- there is some art to it.
And so our range is a range we expect to be in.
That's why we established it.
I think it gives you some confidence as to where we've gone.
And we typically are in there and so we made an estimate as what the weather would be and said we'll be in the 88 to 90.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in regards to the investment portfolio it sounds like Steve talked about preparing us for higher interest rates but then so shifting reducing interest rate for sensitivity.
So what kind of new money yields are you guys expecting in the near term versus the existing portfolio yields? Let me give you an overview from corporate risk standpoint and then Judy will talk about what she's going to implement that.
So overall when we look at the corporate risk profile when we look at interest rates cats underwriting risk inflation a whole variety of things and from our risk management perspective we're assuming that rates will rise.
We don't think they're going to run away tomorrow but we think they will go up over time.
So as we usually do we try to get out ahead of these things and be proactive about it.
We're not -- we only have a sort of moderate level of concern about inflation so -- which is another thing of course I can -- for insurance companies.
So what we're doing is reducing our interest rate risk.
We started that in the fourth quarter.
We'll continue it throughout this year.
And that means basically taking capital gains on the portfolio and pulling operating income forward.
So you can take capital gain today or you can get the higher interest rates.
We believe the economic smart thing to do is to hold those gains forward and so we run the company economically not just for operating EPS.
Judy can talk about what she's done to the portfolio and what she's reinvesting in.
So when you look at the portfolio currently the -- just looking at the fixed income yield on the property and casualty portfolio it's around 3 8 and that's a good estimate of what you should think about in terms of where the portfolio is in some of the activities that we're doing.
The reinvest that we're looking at is as Tom said shorter duration.
A good proxy would be 3- to 5-year maturities investment-grade corporates probably yields around 1.5% to 2% is a good way to think about it.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on the Esurance growth.
It's not so surprising the first quarter but almost every quarter it's been strong.
And when I look at GEICO and Progressive there's a heavy seasonality to when they add policies.
Can you talk a little bit about the marketing there and whether you expect to a certain point will normalize to a seasonality or not? Okay.
I'll get Don to answer that but let me first.
In Esurance we're really happy with Esurance.
It fits with our customer-focused strategy.
We didn't think -- while we had an offering in that lower right-hand quadrant with the Allstate brand we're not really taking share and we need a sharper better focused customer offering to service self-served customer.
And we felt we could leverage a bunch of our capabilities at Allstate which we've done other times whether that be with Encompass or the Benefits business.
And so net-net we like what we've done.
We like -- 30% growth is good.
And Don can talk about the seasonality and perhaps talk about the other things you're doing to drive growth in the business kind of surf around for the acquisitions.
First of all on the seasonality question.
The seasonality Esurance has historically followed their marketing spend.
And so there has been a higher first quarter customer acquisition in the past.
But I think that will probably moderate in the future as they've increased their advertising spend a fair amount and I think we're going to spread that out through the year going forward.
As far as the marketing spread the efficiency throughout the year remember this wasn't just -- when we completed the acquisition at the fourth quarter of last year we began a new ad campaign heralding the fact that Esurance and Allstate were now connected.
That campaign began at the beginning of 2012.
And the impressions have been building as the year has gone on.
So it was less effective the first day it ran than it was the last day it has run through the year and I think the momentum that's built has been very strong.
So the campaigns are working quite well.
It's hard not to be happy with written premium growth going up 30% for the quarter on an apples-to-apples basis if you adjust for the acquisition date last year.
The policies are going up 31% for the year so that's strong as well.
And I think from my perspective we acquired Esurance so that we could really compete effectively against GEICO and Progressive in that customer segment.
And our goal was to grow that business economically.
The GAAP combined ratio kind of gets in the way of looking at things economically for you but we're convinced that the growth we're getting is economic when you spread the advertising expense over the life of that customer.
And we want to see how far we can take it.
But clearly it's doing what we wanted which is taking market share in an economic way.
Research Division</strong> And so the ad spend will -- you expect will be consistent throughout the year? No I don't know that it will be completely consistent quarter-to-quarter.
I just don't think we'll have as much seasonality as they've had historically in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question capital management obviously you have a $2 billion share repurchase on the table now.
Presuming amenable non-cat weather and reasonably low amount of catastrophes could there be more buyback in 2013 if the weather complies? This is Tom.
The -- we've always shown an ability and a willingness to deploy capital back to shareholders using dividends or share repurchases.
$2 billion is a pretty big program when your market cap is $21 billion.
We're pretty comfortable at that.
I think working through that is probably what you should expect in 2013.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So the first question is on the net investment income if I could just have a clarification.
So I believe the all money rates that you have right now is 3.8% new money rates 1.5% to 2.0%.
That's on the P&amp;C portfolio.
Just curious how much for fixed income assets are maturing this year and next year.
And so yes that would be helpful.
Okay.
So the old money rate is really just the portfolio rate that you've referenced so that's around 3.7% to 3.8%.
And the way that we're estimating maturities prepays and calls for 2013 in the property and casualty portfolio is between $1.5 billion and $2 billion with the piece of that being maturities which will actually happen and then we just have to estimate the calls from prepays so that's why that we have the range.
And on top -- if you're trying to get an estimate for investment income on top of that will be the roles we do intentionally on our part to reduce interest rate risk.
Okay so we're going to be selling securities and we have been throughout the last fourth quarter and we'll be selling in this year taking capital gains which will then be reinvested.
That's on top of what you just talked about.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So I just want to get the numbers right.
So the $1.5 billion to $2 billion is fourth quarter? No that's for the total year for the property and casualty portfolio but that excludes what Tom just talked about.
And that activity when we look at that activity we think it's going to be in the range of 4 to -- we think that that activity is going to be on top of the call to maturity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much of a negative impact do you think that that's going to have on the investment income? We're not -- here's what I'd say we're not -- trying not to do earnings guidance by line.
And so what you can do -- the way that you get an estimate is look at our capital gains each quarter before then you can adjust as you look forward based on how much we've sold that quarter and what you think we'll reinvest.
Because the timing of it how much we do will depend on what we think about the future trends in interest rates where we're at the pace of it.
So that a -- we're living through that one.
We're letting you know our intention is to sell bonds realize gains and accelerate it in some operating and commit to capital gains.
But we don't really have a forecast for what we'll do this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is on Esurance.
The growth was great.
But the business is running at a 108 I believe core combined ratio.
Do you think that you can get it to 100 or maybe a 96 by this year or is it going to be next year? I'll give you the directions I've given to Don and Don can talk about the actual number.
But we look at the loss ratio.
And we say where is the loss ratio relative to what it needs to be economic.
We also look at that loss ratio by age of business and we look at that loss ratio by state.
And so there are sort of several different cuts on it with the goal of making sure that there's enough profit coming off the difference between premiums and the loss ratio to pay for all these upfront expenses.
And so to the extent that it is and Don can talk about cost of acquisitions stuff like that.
We'll continue to fund that business for growth.
Esurance hit our underwriting combining $192 million this year in terms of negative to it and I'm good with that because it was all economic.
We can't continue to invest in growth in that business which means the combined ratio will be over 100.
But if you're making money on it it's just -- on advice segment  by sale by age by state then we don't worry as much about what the total combined ratio is at the top because of the way the advertising expenses are accounted for.
Don you...
Yes.
I just maybe add a couple of things.
We can -- this is going to sound bad we can actually make the combined ratio kind of what we'd like it to be by adjusting the advertising.
So I think what you're talking about is the GAAP combined ratio and the better thing to focus on is what Tom talked about which is the economic combined ratio.
Their accounting model is different than Allstates.
Most of their expense is front loaded on advertising back it's expenses for the quarter you do -- you take the advertising expense.
But then the second term and the third term and the fourth term the profitability goes up substantially because you don't have the commission we have on the Allstate side.
So what we look at is over the life of the policy we're writing is that business economic? At the moment that business is quite economic for us and so as Tom said we're happy to feed the growth of that by investing in the advertising upfront.
It's going to depend on making sure that the retention remains strong.
And I would tell you the retention has gone up this year.
And so nobody likes to run 108.
I don't like it either.
But I think you have to go below that number and try to understand why it's running 108.
If it's running 108 for good reasons we'll continue doing that.
Our next question is from Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about Encompass and what structurally is the reasons why the profitability differs from your in force Allstate brand business? It's Tom.
I'll make a quick comment and maybe Don you can talk about the strategy and to grow the business profitably.
So Encompass for us serves the customers who want local advice but want choice between carriers.
So we sell through independent agents.
The cost structure associated with selling through independent agents is higher than the cost structure of selling through captive agents and it's pretty obvious as to why that would be the case.
And so we run a higher expense ratio there.
That's because that's what customers want.
We made a couple of changes to improve that business.
The biggest of which was in the management team and Don can talk about what we're doing to leverage that management team skills and how we expect to grow the business.
I would tell you I'm not completely satisfied with the profitability as to where it needs to be because the combined ratio is still a little high and there's a lot of property in that package policy.
And so you need a pretty low combined ratio on that property business.
But Don can talk about -- we've made good progress and we're seeing some signs of life in that business.
I'm happy about it.
Paul this is Don we've -- Don Bailey.
We've made good progress over the last couple of years in that business as Tom said a new management team but we've reestablished our focus on the package product.
So for us the strategy is it's about customers and it's about agents.
So on the customer side we're very committed to the package product which is the 12-month policy 1 premium 1 bill 1 property deductible and we think that differentiates in the marketplace for our customers which are in that mass affluent segment.
From an agent standpoint we recommitted over the last couple of years to them as well in terms of ease of doing business being consistent in our underwriting appetite operating our technology platforms and that has led to a significant increase in the number of engaged agents we have.
We distribute to about 2 800 agents in the United States.
There's about 37 000 total in the independent agent space about 1 700 of those we would consider active.
So we've gotten more runway with our current agents and we've got probably less than 1% market share in the segments that we chase.
So we think some of the recent trends for us certainly can continue if we continue to run the business the way we have been.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
I think [indiscernible] has thrown out a $1 500 per customer at GEICO benefit to Berkshire.
I don't know whether you've thought through what a customer is worth to you in lifetime benefits.
But if you use his $1 500 as -- one of your customers is worth on your 240 000 policies that you added you probably added $350 million of value to the firm which will be 1/3 of your purchase price.
Do you think about a value of a customer in lifetime benefits to the company? Bob I don't know where Warren Buffet gets $1 500.
So I can't really speak to sort of the math.
I'll just assume that he's got -- whatever his numbers are.
I tend to think about customers not in economic term is that how much can we make off them but as to how do we fully meet their needs and capabilities and how do we differentiate ourselves so we keep winning them.
Just because you got them once doesn't mean you're going to keep them.
And when you start putting numbers on them and say that this person puts a $1 500 sign seems odd to me.
So that's just the way we think about it.
But we think about it as -- like we're trying to always do a good job.
We got to drive retention up.
So you see retention going up in the Esurance business because of the work we're doing the way we serve our customers the type of customers.
Matt talked about retention in his businesses.
And so I'd like to keep them all forever and that's our goal.
And I don't know if that makes him worth $1 500 more but I know it's good for our shareholders.
Okay.
Somehow you have the size your ad spend versus the customers that you get.
So you have to put a number on it at some point but I hear it's just softer -- it may be a softer process in your current mindset.
If I could pivot to the life company I'm a -- I'd be interested on where this company stands relative to Matt's and yours goal that you articulated to get $1 billion of dividends out of it over the next 4 years I think which was a couple of years ago.
It looks like the stat surplus is down.
But you said that the ROE had some pressures because of more capital.
I guess the final question is where does the life company stand in your sort of overall strategy? It looks like there are some people out there willing to pay pretty good prices for life companies today which I'm sure you're mindful of.
What's the overall game plan with the unit? A lot -- as usual you've thought it through in a very thorough way.
So I'll try to give you -- I mean I'll start to end it and see if I could give the details as well.
First our strategy at Allstate Financial has been to focus on underwritten products.
If you go back 10 years it was to make it bigger and broader and we're pushing hard at both the annuity business and the life business expanding through both our captive channels and independent agencies.
Given -- in about the middle -- about 2005 or so we said "This annuity business doesn't look like it's given us the kind of returns we like." We've got fixed annuities.
The returns were low.
Variable annuities we thought the returns were too speculative and we start to shift.
So we sold the VA business of course in 2006.
We started shutting the -- slowing down the size of our annuity sales.
Have we been pressured enough I would have stopped them all.
It may be sold at that time.
That would have been a good idea.
Because the deals we see now people are selling annuity I'm not sure they're great transactions.
But so where we are today is of course focus on our underwritten product be supportive of the Allstate Agency customer rate that lower left they want to buy everything from 1 person if they can.
Also we have a great position in the workplace of Benefits business.
And as we mentioned that business is growing quite well.
We really like that business.
It gives good returns.
So both a -- in underwritten price returns are above our cost of capital and so we're focusing on growing those businesses.
At the same time to get the cost of the return on equity up we've also been trying to reduce the size of the fixed annuity business since that's a long way we have left.
We've been pretty aggressive.
I think we're down about $3 billion this year done.
We'd like it to go down faster.
We're looking at every -- which way we can to make it go down faster because it's just low ROE business.
What we've learned along the way is we can separate the decision from serving our customers from putting our capital to work.
So we sell VA we sell our customers today and they're just made by somebody else.
We sell a bunch of fixed annuities today made by somebody else.
So looking forward what our goal is is to try to get returns up on the life business.
That includes getting capital out of there.
That it was about -- we got about -- when you include the bank last year I think we got back about $367 million.
This year we expect to get more back.
I'm setting objectives for Don.
And so we're -- we expect over the next couple of years it to be a net generator of capital for us to continue to work to try to reduce the size of the fixed annuity business and then to continue to focus on helping support the Allstate agencies and the Benefits business.
Is that helpful? Very helpful.
So selling it or spending it off nowhere near your radar screen? If we could do something with the fixed annuity business I'd be happy to do it.
But there's -- the deals people are making don't look that attractive to me.
If we had an attractive way to reinsure some of that and that's not really a spinoff the way you're -- you're thinking of it in a capital market standpoint.
I'm thinking of it how do we get our returns up in that business and that's our goal get returns up for Allstate Financial.
We'll do it in as effective and efficient of a way as we can.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> I was wondering if you could give a sense of what you think ad spend will be for the Allstate brand '13 versus '12? I'm sorry.
Say that again Ian? L.P.</strong> Advertising spend.
Do you expect advertising spend to be flat down up versus 2012? I'd rather not comment on that because other people listen to the call and figure out what we're doing in the ad spend.
I would just underline that Matt is focused on growth.
And to the extent we think it's economic we're willing to invest in it as long as we can come in with our combined ratio target overall.
And it's a pretty -- as you know it's a pretty aggressive advertising market today but it's also shifting.
You're seeing people move out of big ads that are done on major TV to more electronic communications and stuff like that.
So we have -- Sanjay Gupta joined us.
He's the Chief Marketing Officer last year.
We also have a great advertising team with Lisa Cochrane and some others.
So feel like we got the right weapons and we fire them when we think they're going to drive growth.
L.P.</strong> Got it great.
And then to the growth question on -- Matt obviously talked a little bit earlier about New York and Florida being important states.
But there's -- I'm talking specifically about auto here.
There's also challenges in both states.
I'm curious just what -- how those are impacting you there favorably [Audio Gap] Has that been an impediment to try and to grow? Or do you think you've kind of gotten ahead of the market in figuring out how to address that? And then just New York with all the losses from auto and Sandy I assumed there could be price increases coming.
How does that affect your ability to grow? Well let's take them individually because although they are typically grouped together they tend to have some things in common but some things occur differently.
Florida is a difficult environment.
Due in part by the type issues that you referenced.
But it's just a tricky environment one where you have to be very disciplined very cautious.
And as you grow you need to do so in a really disciplined manner.
I talked at one of the other calls about the first-mover disadvantage that we sometimes get by seeing things before other see them in Florida and New York that's really an advantage.
So we watch trends emerge and we stay on top of them very aggressively.
So you can see in Florida on Page 23 of the sup that we've continued to improve the margins in Florida as the year-over-year loss ratio ended 2012 several points below 2011 levels.
That gives us some flexibility to start looking at growth.
We've seen as I said stabilization in retention there.
But we have to be cautious in the growth area and we'll do so deliberately and cautiously.
So that as we grow and if we're able to grow we're doing so profitably and not exposing ourselves inappropriately on the risk side.
In New York as you said Sandy creates some -- we'll take [indiscernible] some of the results.
We have to see what happens.
Clearly with some of the requirements that we not terminate policies that influenced the retention rate there so we have to see how that shakes out.
But we're optimistic there too.
You've seen standard auto if there continues to decline but at a slower rate than seen in the third quarter.
And if you take out Sandy -- and I think we try to break this out for you on Page 23 of the sup in New York.
The loss ratio excluding Sandy improved compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
So we're seeing if you x out Sandy we're seeing some nice improvement there so we think we're fairly well positioned in New York as well.
L.P.</strong> You think you can get enough rate -- just given the moratoriums you can get enough rate for the cat load type -- probably higher cat load to still grow? I can't predict what rates we'll get what we will take.
We strive always to ensure that we have a proper economic return on the business and we'll manage our relationships there and our rates to ensure that happens.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bob maybe could you elaborate a little bit on you mentioned -- we talked about non-cat weather.
I think we talked more on the homeowners side can you talk a little bit about kind of the large loss activity -- or the lack of large loss activity I should say in the fourth quarter? How much that benefited standard auto? Just to try and reconcile how everything move out those forward.
And then just one follow-up.
The lack of large loss activity favorably impacting auto in the fourth quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well you said weather was benign I guess.
Well it was.
If you look at the frequency trends that we had a nice decrease in the fourth quarter relative to 2011 so the frequency trends continued.
That is -- when we look forward is something that we are not necessarily calling on when we look at 2013.
I think that everybody in the industry I think experienced a better weather pattern in 2012 than they had in the past 2 years.
So I think that's really what we're seeing on that.
And the large loss I think it sometimes causes us to hesitate now let's not make the reserving expert.
But to the extent the frequency goes down because of the weather those tend to be smaller average claims sizes.
So as a result of that your severity tends to go up a little bit when your frequency goes down.
So actually the large losses didn't really go down.
Somebody's going to get into an accident and really hurt themselves or somebody else.
They're usually going to do a weather -- so whether or not as the weather -- variability in the weather tends to take out small [ph].
So I think if you look at pay per premium where Bob laid out on the site you get a sense for -- we feel like the fourth quarter is pretty good.
We don't think you can always count on frequency being down and so that's why we depict the numbers we picked.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just one one piece of the disclosure I was trying to figure out was so we've got the cats and homeowners and auto and then cats overall is there -- do you guys disclose or do we have available the cat numbers in the auto segment? And what did that look like in 4Q and maybe for the year? I'm just trying to understand the kind of the underlying there.
The way the supplement was structured this quarter.
They reformatted a few things.
And one of the things that is not -- is no longer in there specifically is cat losses other personal lines.
Yes I'm working with the accounting to get that number.
Research Division</strong> Oh you are.
Okay great.
So will follow up with you will follow up with you after then.
And then just one last quick one if I could.
Investment income I mean it looks like -- so you're down year-over-year about 7% just on the fixed maturity piece.
And I guess there are some being moved to alternatives in equities.
But just trying to understand whether or not that piece of decline should accelerate just given the -- it sounds like some harvesting and some continued repositioning.
And how just -- how generally should we think about what you're going to be doing there? Mike this is Tom.
I think your numbers are correct.
We don't want to do a forecast of investment income because of course everything depends on what happens to rates and the investment rates and how much we decide to reduce interest rate.
But I think the general direction you describe is the one we're trying to give you -- I think investment income is likely to excluding what we get off limited partnerships in the alternative investment is likely to go down next year because rates are low and we are harvesting gains and reducing our interest rate risk.
So the direction is right.
Everyone has to make their own estimate as to how much it will go down.
Maybe we can -- one last question.
I think because we're about at the top of the hour.
Our final question today is from Ray Iardella of Macquarie.
Just maybe a question more so to longer-term thinking.
Tom when you think about the 13% ROE goal by 2014 maybe talk about whether or not you need to improve the P&amp;C combined ratio from the 88 to 90 just given maybe some of the pressures of investment income? And if not maybe talk about the levers maybe outside the life business that you guys have to get your ROE's up to that goal? That's a good question and a complicated one but I'll try to do it quickly.
First driving profitable growth is our goal and we're highly focused on return on equity.
13% was the goal we set in 2010 early 2010.
It is still our goal.
Some of the actions we took and had planned on to get there have worked well and we're on the way there.
Other things are not as far along as we would like to get to that goal.
We picked 13% because I don't know if you were at that meeting or not but because that was the return we had gotten over a long period of time out of the business.
So there are 4 key assumptions: One we can maintain auto profitability; two we can improve returns and homeowners; three that we could get the Allstate Financial ROE up to 9% to 10%; and four that investment income would be essentially flat.
We're comfortable with the first 2.
Auto profitability is still doing well.
We like -- as we said we like what we've got going in homeowners.
And at the time getting the improvement from where we were to getting to 13% about 70% of it was in the homeowners business.
So we have been like laser-focused on getting that done and Matt's team has been pushing forward on the work that's really we've been working on for 4 or 5 years in trying to get there.
So that one we feel very good about as we feel good about the sustainability of our auto margins.
In terms we've made less progress on AF because of the interest rates have come down.
And that of course impacts the third one as well.
So we're focused on doing what is economic as well as getting 13%.
So for example lower rates doing what we're doing to reduce interest rate risks makes that fourth lever even harder to accomplish.
So -- but that said we're going to do what's economic for the shareholders.
And if we think it's the right risk turn trade-off we'll do it.
And we are still shooting for 13%.
But I'm not going to be a slave to an operating EPS number and put our shareholders at risk for interest rates moving up and unrealized going from $5.5 billion to being wiped out.
If we can capture some of that for our shareholders today we will.
So it's a complicated model.
We're still working on it.
Our goal is to get shareholders a 13% return.
There's lots of levers we can pull you mentioned many of them and we're working away at it.
Okay let me just close.
So 2012 was a year where you all had the ability to see through cat losses to the underlying strength of our business model.
We have a clear and focused strategy which is to differentiate ourselves versus the competition and focus on the needs of each customer segment.
We're executing well.
We will proactively address any of those challenges that come our way including the ones we just talked about with the goal of creating value for our shareholders by doing a great job for our customers.
So thank you very much and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for us joining today for our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
We will begin with some brief commentary from Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and me on our results.
A question-and-answer session will follow that.
Also on the call today are Don Bailey Head of Emerging Businesses and Encompass;  Don Civgin Head of Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Sam Pilch our Controller; Matt Winter Head of Auto Home and Agencies.
Last night we issued our press release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the first quarter 2013 and posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are available on our website.
Referring to our first slide this discussion may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from those statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2012 and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Tom? Well good morning.
We appreciate your interest in Allstate.
I'll cover our results for the first quarter relative to our strategy and our priorities for 2013 then Bob and Steve will provide more color on the business results investments and capital and of course we have our entire management team here to answer any questions you have.
First quarter operating financial results reflect our progress in executing our strategy to create both sustainable and profitable growth.
As you know Allstate's strategy is to serve the 4 unique consumer segments with competitively differentiated products and services.
So if you go to Slide 2 we show the high-level results for the 4 consumer segments.
The 3 brands where we underwrite risks that being Allstate Encompass and Esurance all generated net written premium growth over prior year in the first quarter while Answer Financial grew it's non-proprietary premiums.
In the consumer segment served by the Allstate brand that's customers that prefer local advice and presence and branded products in the lower left units continued to decline as expected largely reflecting efforts to improve the homeowners returns.
We did have an increase over the prior year quarter in new business for standard auto.
This is primarily the result of new pricing tactics and improved agency productivity.
Standard auto retention also increased and profitability remains strong as we've masked rate increases with loss-cost trends for auto and homeowners.
As a result margins stayed at levels achieved at the end of last year.
Encompass which serves the advice-seeking brand-neutral customers that's in the upper left grew net written premiums 7.2% and units 6.1% over the first quarter of 2012 on the strength of its unique package policy and increased engagement of independent agencies.
Profitability is not at target levels but reflecting the runoff of the non-package auto business.
Now we also have some work to do on pricing and underwriting in packaged auto although the combined ratio there is below 100.
Esurance which serves the self-directed branded consumer segment that's the lower right continued to produce excellent growth results with net written premiums up 30% and units up over 36% from a year ago.
The combined ratio of 116.7 remains elevated as we invest in marketing to acquire profitable lifetime value customers.
These results demonstrate that our strategy of providing differentiated products and services to unique customer segments is working.
We had a solid quarter in terms of operating results as shown on Slide 3.
On a consolidated basis we produced net income of $709 million and operating income of $647 million.
Both were less than the first quarter of 2012 due to higher catastrophe losses this year.
The underlying property-liability combined ratio of 87.7 was 0.4 points better than the first quarter of 2012 and slightly better than our full year 2013 outlook range of 88 to 90.
Book value per diluted share increased 12.7% from a year ago.
Returns on net and operating income were 11.3% and 11.9% respectively.
Over the last earnings call we talked about we have 5 operating priorities for 2013 as is shown on the bottom.
That's grow insurance premiums maintain auto profitability raise returns in homeowners and annuities proactively manage investments and reduce our cost structure.
The results from the first quarter are on pace to achieve those objectives.
Now I've already covered the premium growth of property-liability.
At Allstate Financial premiums and contract charges increased 4.7% over prior year with Allstate Benefits realizing 11.8% growth in the quarter.
We also made progress on our second goal of maintaining auto margins.
The Allstate brand's standard auto combined ratio for the first quarter was 94.2.
That's 1 point better than the prior year.
And the underlying combined ratio was 93.5.
That's 1.4 points better than the first quarter of 2012.
The overall auto combined ratio was 96.1.
We continue to raise returns from the homeowners business with an Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio of 85.1 despite over 18 points of catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio was improved 1.2 points year-over-year.
That's the 65.8.
It is pretty close to where we ended last year's fourth quarter.
Annuity returns declined in the first quarter due to reduced limited partnership income and continued low interest rates.
Raising annuity returns remains a challenge particularly given the slow interest rate environment.
Proactively managing the investment portfolio is our fourth goal.
We had a total return of 1.2% for the quarter.
We also sold long bonds in the property-liability portfolio to reduce our exposure to higher interest rates.
Continued low interest rates and these risk reduction strategies will reduce net investment income as we move throughout the year.
We added a fifth priority this year to reduce our cost structure.
The expense ratio was up this quarter reflecting accelerated investments in technology and a restructuring charge for future employee reductions.
Finally there have been a couple of articles written about Lincoln Benefit Life which comprises about 1/3 of Allstate Financial's total reserves and is one of several legal entities providing proprietary life and annuity products through Allstate agencies.
Lincoln Benefit also serves consumers that are advice-seeking and brand-neutral through independent agencies which is at upper left in our 4-quadrant market segmentation.
As you know and would expect our practice is not to comment on these rumors.
Let me turn it over to Bob.
Thanks Tom.
In the first quarter on a consolidated basis we generated $709 million and $647 million in net and operating income respectively shown on the top of Slide 4.
These results were less than the first quarter 2012 as we recorded more catastrophe losses this quarter.
Property-liability recorded $616 million in net income $79 million less than the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to the higher level of catastrophe losses this quarter.
Earned premium of $6.77 billion increased 2.1% over prior year with a recorded combined ratio of 93.2 including 5.3 points of catastrophe losses.
The $100 million increase in recorded catastrophe losses in the quarter was driven by lower favorable prior year reserve reestimates this year versus the first quarter of 2012.
The underlying combined ratio was 87.7 0.4 point lower than the prior year and slightly less than the full year 2013 outlook of 88 to 90.
Allstate Financial net income was $146 million in first quarter 2013 up $34 million or 30.4% from prior year as you can see on the top of the slide.
This was driven by realized capital gains this year versus realized capital losses last year in the first quarter 2012.
Operating income of $144 million was slightly less than the first quarter 2012 as investment spread declined which was partially offset by an increase in the benefit spread.
Now I'll review our performance on our operating priorities for 2013 that Tom just discussed.
The first quarter saw real progress on the priority of growing insurance premiums.
On Slide 5 total property-liability net written premium of $6.6 billion grew 2.5% from the first quarter of 2012 with all the brands contributing to this positive result.
Total policies in force of $32.8 million declined slightly from year-end 2012 and 0.7% from March of 2012.
This figure excludes 1.1 million Good Hands Roadside members which has almost doubled the membership as of March 2012.
Within the Allstate brand standard auto net written premium was up 1.2%.
While units declined the rate of decline slowed in the quarter and we experienced increases from the first quarter 2012 in new issued applications of 7.3% and retention of 0.6 point to 89.3%.
We continue to seek rate changes as appropriate introducing new pricing structures and products like Drive Wise into the marketplace.
Allstate brand homeowners also recorded a small increase in net written premium while units declined as expected albeit at a slower rate.
Net written premium increases were recorded in our Emerging Businesses Canada Encompass and Esurance.
Canada Encompass and Esurance also had increases in unit growth from prior year.
We maintained auto profitability in first quarter 2013 with a standard auto recorded combined ratio of 96.1 1.2 points better than the first quarter of 2012.
This result includes all 3 brands.
On Slide 6 we provide some details for the Allstate brand's standard auto which represents about 90% of the earned premium for this line.
The trend in gross frequencies for bodily injury and property damage are shown in the upper left.
Both coverages recorded declines in the quarter from prior year.
In the upper right the trend for calendar year paid severities for bodily injury and property damage are displayed.
Property damage declined 1% year-over-year.
Bodily injury increased 7.4% a result heavily influenced by the timing of payments and geographic mix.
Adjusting for these 2 factors the underlying severity trend for bodily injury is in line with CPI growth.
When you include all the coverages in auto the chart in the lower left shows the underlying loss trend improving from the first quarter 2012 while average earned premium continued to increase as we benefit from approved rate changes.
The result was a consistently favorable combined ratio trend shown in the lower right.
We continue to successfully maintain auto profitability.
Raising returns in homeowners is an important goal.
Slide 7 provides the details on our progress in achieving this priority specifically for Allstate brand homeowners.
The underlying combined ratio was 65.8 1.2 points better than the prior year with a recorded combined ratio of 85.1.
Loss-cost trends remain relatively benign with gross frequency increasing slightly while paid severity declined.
The underlying margin trends continue to improve as shown in the chart in the lower left.
The chart in the lower right shows the continued improvement in the underlying combined ratio since mid-2011.
We will continue to seek rate changes as necessary utilize underwriting techniques to improve the quality of the book roll out the new house and home product to more markets and broker business in higher-risk markets where appropriate.
Raising returns in annuities remains a challenge as the low investment results continue to pressure returns.
Shown on Slide 8 contractholder funds declined as we continue to shift away from spread-based products.
Operating income return on attributed equity for Allstate Financial declined slightly from year-end 2012 due to higher net capital levels and lower operating income.
The decline in the return for immediate annuities reflects lower investment income from limited partnerships.
Now let me turn it over to Steve to talk about investments and capital.
Thanks Bob.
First quarter investment results reflect strategic actions focused on balancing income risk and return in the current low interest and uncertain economic environment.
In the first quarter we continued rate risk reduction actions in our property-liability portfolio maintained alignment with Allstate Financial's changing liability profile and began repositioning our public equity portfolio from a passive to a more targeted strategy.
On Slide 9 you see the carrying value of our total portfolio ended the first quarter at $97.4 billion a slight increase over year end.
Core debt which includes fixed income securities and loans represents the vast majority of our portfolio.
We continue to increase the equity and owned component of our portfolio including limited partnerships real estate public equities and other alternative assets.
We expect these assets to generate higher returns over time however earnings from these assets will be more variable on a quarterly basis.
Net investment income totaled $983 million in the first quarter and total portfolio yield was 4.5% representing declines from both the prior quarter and first quarter of 2012.
The magnitude of the decline was mitigated somewhat by income related to bond calls and mortgage loans repaid at a premium as well as litigation proceeds which added an aggregate of $42 million to net investment income.
Turning to the total portfolio return chart we had a positive return of 1.2% for the first quarter with net investment income the primary driver.
Valuation price changes contributed less than in prior year quarters as an uptick in interest rates was substantially offset by tighter credit spreads moderating returns on the core debt portfolio.
Equity and owned investments contributed to the total return through income from partnerships equity dividends and increases in valuation.
Slide 10 depicts the dynamics and impact of the different investment strategies we are employing for the Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial business units.
As mentioned previously during the first quarter we continued to reduce interest rate risk in our property-liability portfolio positioning it to be less sensitive to a rise in interest rates by targeting a shorter maturity profile.
This repositioning involves shifting out of longer-term municipal and corporate bonds and shorter-term lower-yielding treasuries into intermediate-term bonds as shown in the scheduled maturity graph in the upper right.
The sale of longer-term higher-yielding securities pulls forward future income through the realization of gains.
As you can see in the graph in the top left the earned yield on our property-liability core debt portfolio has been declining and was 3.3% for the first quarter of 2013.
The current yield on intermediate corporates our targeted reinvestment proxy is approximately 1.3%.
Given this differential maturity and sales activities have and will continue to result in a decline in net investment income for core debt.
For Allstate Financial you can see at the bottom of the page that both net investment income and the portfolio have declined as a result of the managed reduction of spread-based liabilities.
The majority of investment cash flows have been used to fund liability outflows rather than being reinvested so the portfolio yield has not been impacted as much as with the property-liability portfolio.
Future investment income will depend on the pace of the liability outflows and reinvestment activity.
Looking forward there are 3 factors influencing our investment income arising from the market environment and investment strategies we have put in place since the financial crisis.
First the yield on our core debt portfolio.
This is trending down as proceeds from maturities and the shortening of the property-liability maturity profile are reinvested at current lower rates.
Second income related to market refinancing activity such as bond calls and mortgage loan prepayments as well as litigation settlements may be significantly lower or may not recur in the future.
And third limited partnership investments which offer attractive long-term returns will have income which may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.
For the first quarter income on the core debt portfolio continued to decline as we expected given maturities and rate risk reduction while the other 2 items were at the high end of recent quarterly experience.
To provide a better understanding of these trends we added analysis on Pages 42 and 47 to the investor supplement to create more transparency of our investment results.
Slide 11 shows our capital position at the end of the first quarter of 2013.
We remain in a strong capital position with shareholders' equity of $20.6 billion comparable to year-end 2012.
Statutory surplus remained at $17.2 billion and deployable assets at the holding company level increased to $2.7 billion.
Our book value per diluted share increased 12.7% from March 2012 and 2.5% from year-end 2012.
We repurchased 14.3 million shares of our stock in the quarter 5.1 million shares in the open market and 9.2 million shares under a $500 million accelerated share repurchase agreement.
We have $1.33 billion remaining in our share repurchase programs.
Our operating ROE was 11.9% on a trailing 12-month basis up 6.9 points from a year ago but down 0.5 point from year end.
The drop from the year end reflects both higher average capital and a lower first quarter operating income compared to first quarter last year.
We're off to a good start in 2013.
Our first quarter results are solid and we continue to execute effectively on our consumer-focused strategy and our 2013 operating priorities.
Now let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the underlying combined ratio of 87.7 in the first quarter already being below or better than the outlook for the full year '13 is there any reason that you think that that's not able to continue? Jay this is Tom.
We still feel comfortable with 88 to 90.
That's a full year number.
That's one quarter.
A lot of the quarters bounce around just because of weather but we're still comfortable with 88 to 90.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then turning to the contribution from investment income.
On Slide 10 of the presentation I know there were a couple potential onetime items in there including bond call premiums.
It will be helpful from our perspective to get what you view as sort of the run rate of the property-liability and Allstate Financial quarterly investment income.
Well let me make a couple of comments about the run rate and then Steve and Judy might want to jump in.
First we prefer not to give sort of line-by-line projections for the P&amp;L although I recognize that this is a more difficult one in this environment to get your arms around particularly as you look at this quarter.
So as you pointed out we had a couple of things.
Some of it is prepays which are a little hard to forecast by its own [ph].
But we also had some litigation settlements.
You might remember about 1.5 years ago we made a little bit of press by filing suits against a number of issuers of mortgage-backed securities and we've started to settle some of those.
So those really are truly nonrecurring and really reflect just an offset to losses we had in prior years.
And then limited partnership returns bounce around.
And Steve or Judy you might want to talk about limited partnership returns and then what's happening with the core portfolio.
So Jay we did -- as Steve said we did have the 2 pages in the sup and I think that those will be helpful in terms of distinguishing between the core portfolio and the equity portfolio so you could see on that page what's happened in both.
I think it's key to see that as we reinvested in the lower rates done the risk reduction in the property-liability portfolio for interest rates that the core earnings on that portfolio the core yield has come down and will continue to come down.
As Steve mentioned the differential between the core portfolio yield and what we're reinvesting at is about 200 basis points so that will continue to happen.
I think it's also helpful to look at the upper right-hand side of Page 10 of the presentation that Steve just went through and it goes through the progress that we've made in the risk reductions.
And I think that also helps give you an indication of what we've done so far.
And as we've said we're going to continue to sell some longer-dated maturity securities and reinvest in the intermediate portion of the curve.
Our next question is from Michael Zaremski of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a follow-up to the last question so I think I heard Steve mention a 1.3% new money yield on the core debt portfolio in the property-liability portfolio.
If I heard that correctly then what do you guys think about the new money rates for the Allstate Financial core debt portfolio? So for Allstate Financial it's a little bit different because we're managing to match the liabilities and there we're -- in that portfolio it's more of a 7- to 10-year proxy.
So on property-liability we gave you a 3- to 5-year proxy and on Allstate Financial it's 7 to 10.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
Okay.
Now I have a couple questions about the capital backing the life insurance subsidiaries.
I noticed the RBC ratio at year-end 2012 was up to the higher 300s from the previous year.
I was curious if we should expect any dividends out from there.
And I also noticed in the 10-Q some talk about a $500 million advance between the subsidiary and the holdco.
First you remember we did put a bunch of money into the life insurance company over the last couple of years and their goal is to return some of that money to us.
Some of that will come through surplus notes.
Some of it we'd like to come through dividends and we have to work through some statutory accounting issues to get that done.
So the intercompany loan was really just a way for us to get higher returns on $500 million of capital.
It wasn't needed for capital purposes.
It wasn't -- it was simply a way for us to move money into a better-returning asset that's all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And will you be able to tell us how much capital is backing the spread-based annuities books? There should be some attributed equity in the investor supplement Mike.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly if I can slip one in a lot of disclosure on the reinsurance program.
Is the -- it sounds like you guys are expecting lower reinsurance costs for the year if I'm correct.
Are you basically buying less coverage because there's less exposure or you're taking on more -- a little more risk? This is Sam Pilch.
In the 10-Q we explained several things that's going in on with respect to the placement of our reinsurance and the effect on costs.
First thing was we did -- we no longer needed to place a second [ph]  layer which we did last year.
And the reason for that is that we were able to achieve our targeted risk retention goals without that layer.
Secondly the benefit of the cap bond placement helped to reduce the costs.
We also are expecting that we're going to place a smaller program in Florida.
We'll be doing that later in the quarter.
That will reduce our total cost.
And then finally the year-to-year pricing on the program has come down.
So those are the 4 reasons that we cited.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions I guess.
First off on the homeowners line I guess a question of how much rate are you getting right now? If you could just kind of ballpark it.
I'm just wondering when should we start to see that translate into premium growth? We've talked in the past about derisking efforts there.
Can we revisit where that is and when we feel like you're comfortable with the book you have and then it's just about growing top line or pushing rate through on the retained book? And just one follow-up.
Hey Michael it's Matt Winter.
You had a couple of questions embedded in there.
So at a high level let me start with where we are in the homeowners book.
We have done a substantial amount of work on improving the profitability and returns of that business.
We now have house and home in just about 22 states making it available to just over half of the U.S.
population.
That product goes in immediately rate-adequate.
We've also had rating actions and if you look in the sup I believe it's Pages 14 and 25 in the sup you can see the history of our rate-taking actions.
It has slowed.
It has slowed in the last couple of quarters as we get closer to being rate-adequate.
We're not quite done.
And we're addressing it not just through rate but through some continued underwriting actions.
So although the vast majority of the nonrenewals and the reinspection program has had its impact there is still some additional work to do.
As you noticed while we've been doing that we've managed to ramp up new business so new business is up just about 12% in the quarter and that's continued improvement over the second half of 2012.
We were about flat in the third quarter of '12.
Fourth quarter we were about 5.8% up in new business and this year 11.9%.
And we're actually growing new business in 33 states compared to 14 a year ago.
Retention takes a little longer to work on given the fact that these are 12-month policies and given the fact that some of the profitability and rating actions and underwriting actions have an impact some collateral damage on retention and so that hasn't moved as quickly as new business.
We're hoping that as rating actions and underwriting actions soften and as we get closer to the final point of our profitability the retention will start to pick up.
We have a huge amount of effort underway on customer experience and retention.
We know it's a key lever not only in the homeowners business but also in the auto business.
So the short answer to your question is we're not done yet with all the profitability actions but we have made substantial progress and we're trying to coordinate the turn by getting new business ramped up quickly.
So as we get more rate-adequate and as the underwriting actions soften and decrease we'll be in a great position to start growing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Tom you mentioned the expense ratio upfront.
I mean you talked about some restructuring actions.
Can you give us a little more detail on how to think about the year-over-year and what aspects of the expense ratio are more go-forward? Well you have to break the expense ratio into a bunch of different pieces right? So there's the Allstate brand expense ratio which is that which we deploy in that lower left-hand quadrant.
That was up a little bit but we got a little ahead on technology spend.
I would expect that to come down a little bit as we move through the year.
Esurance expense ratio is high and it stays high as long as we think the acquisition costs are better or a good trade for the lifetime value of the policy.
But in general we're looking at just about everything we have to try to reduce costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the Q you mentioned a change in compensation structure for agents' bonus and commission.
Can you elaborate a bit on that? Sure.
Matt can talk about that.
I may put it in a broad multiyear context and Matt can talk specifically about that.
Over the last 3 years we've been working hard to strengthen our Allstate agencies and the distribution platform and we did it at a time when we knew that we'd be backing off some on volumes because of what we were doing in the homeowners business.
So we've done everything from change performance standards and work with those agencies who are not going to be successful to leave the system to helping those successful agencies buy other agencies and build those agencies up to deploying technology for them to changing the compensation structure so that it aligned with our customer-focused strategy.
So it's been a multiyear effort and we feel good about where it's coming out.
They were obviously -- anytime you make that broad and deep a change it takes -- there's a few bumps in the road.
Matt can talk specifically about the compensation program.
Sure.
As Tom mentioned so we had a fairly substantial set of changes in our overall agents' compensation program.
We implemented a variable compensation piece.
We implemented a new annual bonus structure and we implemented a set of measures designed to create a different type of an agency system consistent with our new customer value proposition.
So rather than being single-product-focused it is now more representative of the type of customer experience we'd like our agencies to provide so they will get compensated better when they sell the full portfolio of products.
When they pay attention to household bundling and household penetration when they pay attention to customer experience and achieve great customer experience they have compensation incentives in place for that and their representation of the brand all the way from physical presence of their agencies to their level of continuing education and their representation of multiple products.
So this past year was really the first full year of implementation for both the variable comp piece and the annual bonus piece.
It appears to be doing what we wanted it to do.
It's driving the behaviors we want.
We were surprised and pleasantly surprised to see the success of most of our agencies in making that turn.
It's really difficult to respond to a new compensation system when you're running a small business and you've built cash flow projections in your business plan in a certain way.
But I think our agency owners did a phenomenal job adapting to the new system reorienting their business redoing their business plans and they maximized their compensation and did exceptionally well last year.
And so any reference you may have seen may have been to the fact that we had a good payout last year on the annual bonus and we have a high percentage of people making the variable comp and in fact a substantial percentage making more now as a result of enhanced customer experience.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Langen McAlenney.
I appreciate the increased disclosure on Slide 47 but I'm going to be greedy and ask for a little bit more transparency.
On partnerships my understanding is that you have a 1-quarter lag so the good strong stock market in Q1 is likely going to provide a headwind into Q2.
And I'm just wondering how we should think about the mix of partnership assets and if there's a macro portfolio we should look at and an overall core to the strategy of what you're trying to do with your partnership investing.
Bob this is Tom.
You've always been known to ask for more and Judy's will attempt to give that to you.
Thanks Tom.
So Bob in the limited partnership results there are a couple of things.
First of all there are private equity traditional private equity returns and you can look at that and see some correlation to the broader S&amp;P and you can apply a beta to that.
And you're right.
When they -- we do report on a quarter lag and when the S&amp;P does well those valuations tend to do well.
The second piece is real estate which is a little bit tougher to align to the S&amp;P but it also tends to do well in this type of environment with lower rates and a lot of demand for real estate.
The third piece which has come down significantly over the past couple of years is our hedge fund exposure which is almost nonexistent at this point.
So we basically replaced that with private equity and private real estate and we're also looking at increasing our investments in infrastructure and real assets.
That's a little bit slower than we'd like because a lot of people are looking for those types of assets but we still think that those offer value as well.
Anything unusual in the expense ratio that's bumped up? Is there more advertise spend or is that a trend line we can expect to continue? Perhaps it's Esurance in the mix.
Bob the only thing that's unusual our technology expenses were a little ahead of plan in the first quarter and we took a charge for our future employee reductions.
Any sense on how many bps above normal those things represent? We're not going to give that out no.
Our next question is from Gregory Locraft of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on Glass' question regarding the limited partnerships.
You guys I think have some footnotes in the supplement that talk about about $2 billion of commitments or future  -- anticipated future purchases of limited partnerships.
First off is -- I mean am I reading that footnote correctly? And then what is the timing around that? And that represents a 40% increase in the LP allocation.
So how is that going to impact just net investment income dollars going forward for the corporation? Greg this is Tom.
Judy will give you the specifics.
But remember those commitments we sign up to a fund and those commitments are drawn down as you would expect over a long period of time.
And at the same time as those commitments are being drawn down we're getting cash from our existing investments.
So it is about $2 billion and about $1 billion of it is set aside for Allstate Protection or the property-liability business and about $1 billion for Allstate Financial.
And as Tom said it's just a drawdown over several years versus the commitment.
And what we find is though that it's not a dollar-per-dollar increase with what we currently have because what we currently have will pay down over time as well.
So by the time we fund those other investments in our current portfolio they'll likely have already been realized.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful folks.
So it's not going to be a 40% jump in this part of the portfolio.
It's going to be much smaller given what you just said.
I guess I would say that we are trying to grow this part of the portfolio yet the 40% likely won't happen because of what I just talked about.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Okay great.
And then last is just you had mentioned you want to own some more infrastructure and real assets.
Should we think about this as a pro rata slice of the existing allocation or is it all maybe going towards that or the infrastructure funds or something else? There again we're trying to grow it as I said but it's more difficult because there's lots of demand for those assets.
So it's not -- we continue to allocate it to private equity and real estate as well so pro rata is not too far off with the way to think about it.
Our next question is from Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital.
L.P.</strong> I guess my first Tom is I know there's been a lot focus on the homeowners improvement but arguably the auto progress has been just as impressive given many of your peers have struggled to maintain margins as severity spiked and you've been able to improve it.
I mean I know you've talked a little bit about it in the past can you just give a little more color? I mean do you feel -- what sort of gives you confidence that you can maintain auto margins if severity remains elevated at these levels? Well first thank you for the recognition.
Matt's smiling quite broadly here.
We think we're pretty good at the auto business.
We pay a lot of attention to it.
We have a culture and a set of operating practices and organization structures that ensure that that keeps going so we're a little paranoid about it.
Matt can talk specifically about some of the underlying trends in the big states and the things that he's watching to give you a sense for sustainability.
But I would say that it is a -- as you know one of our core objectives has always been to maintain auto profitability while we start to get the business growing again.
Yes.
It's Matt.
Thank you both for the question and for the comment.
As Tom said a lot of our ability to manage this has to do with the systems we've set up and have been set up over the years here to be very proactive in the auto business and watch emerging trends.
A lot of that has to do with a fairly decentralized product organization that is focused down at the substate level on geographies and local markets to watch emerging trends.
And a lot of it also has to do with the feedback loop with our claims organization to product where the claims personnel are really monitoring trends very quickly reporting on them and enabling us to stay out in front of it.
We see that most evidently in some of the larger states.
You see what's happening to New York and Florida.
We feel pretty good about what's happened there.
We've done -- that team has done a phenomenal job paying attention in very very difficult environments as you're aware.
And we manage the loss ratios both holistically and by individual component.
So it's easy to get trapped in either of the 2 either looking at loss ratio and not looking at the individual components or getting so focused on BI paid severity or PD paid severity that you don't look at the overall context and the overall loss ratio.
And so we've set up a structure where we're looking at it in multi-dimensions.
And we're watching the emerging trends and we're trying to stay ahead of our loss trends.
Yet at the same time we're very focused on optimizing between growth and profitability.
We think that we're seeing some really encouraging trends on the growth side.
We have -- we saw some great overall growth in new business.
This year we -- this quarter we had 29 states showing positive growth in the quarter where -- the retention is also up with about 32 states improved in the first quarter.
So the more we focus on our ability to maintain our existing customers and improve their customer experience and get the new business engine growing again while we maintain the profitability awareness and focus we think it's setting the stage for a dynamic business.
So we have the same culture in the other businesses that's executed a little differently.
So if I could get Don Bailey to talk about Encompass and Don Civgin to talk about Esurance.
Particularly on the growth side Tom? No on the combined ratio in auto insurance.
The combined ratio.
So on the auto combined piece -- this is Don Bailey on Encompass.
If you look at our overall plan for Encompass you can see sustained growth on a top line basis which we're excited about.
As Tom said in his opening comments we're not where we need to be from a profitability perspective.
If you break down the auto piece of that for us what you'll note is that our packaged auto business represents about 73% of the total gross premium we've got in that space and the segment business the monoline auto is about 27%.
The profitability pressures we have are clearly in the monoline segment auto space.
Our packaged auto business operates below 100 as Tom said.
From a growth perspective we are significantly growing the packaged auto piece of what we do and we are significantly shrinking that piece of it that is monoline.
So we've got a plan for profitability in the auto space.
In Encompass we're executing that plan and we're getting there as quickly as we responsibly can.
And then as it relates to Esurance we've owned Esurance for about 1.5 years now feel really good about where we are with them.
Not only are they living into the strategy of serving their unique customer with unique products and services but they're generating strong growth with the PIP up about 36% over last year and the premiums up over 30%.
The combined ratio is high.
We expected that.
We're okay with it.
We have had a lot of work done with respect to making sure their loss ratios are in line and you can see that coming down from where it's been running over the back half of last year.
So we feel good about that and confident that that will be a strong contributor in the future.
And then -- and we've discussed before their advertising model is different.
So because they are growing so fast and spending a lot of money on advertising we are forced to expense that upfront which makes their short-term loss ratio GAAP loss ratio look quite high.
We are running this on an economic basis so we look at the lifetime economic combined ratio which we monitor continuously.
We feel good that we're writing profitable business.
GAAP results tend to skew that so it'll look less profitable at the beginning and more profitable in the future.
And in a high-growth environment that doesn't look as attractive.
But we're feeling good about the business they're writing.
We love the fact that it's growing and as I said at the end of the day it's fulfilling its strategic objective.
L.P.</strong> That was all exceptionally helpful.
I could probably ask about 6 follow-ups but I'll limit myself to 1.
Matt on the growth in new business you mentioned can you just give us any more color as far as -- I know you talked about states and so forth but is there any -- is it certain types of customers that are growing differently than another or certain risk characteristics or is it monoline versus bundled any kind of maybe customer segment that's leading that a little bit more than others? Sure.
Well remember I talked about at probably the last 2 earnings calls about 2 initiatives that we had underway with the auto business that we've termed price optimization and broadening the target.
And essentially what the intent of both of those initiatives was to do was to slightly expand our target market.
We had been very selective in our target market but we were -- we had a very attractive rate for a fairly small group of people and we wanted to consistent with our risk profile and our underwriting rigor expand that a little bit.
And so we have broadened that target market a little bit still well within what we believe is the preferred type of risk that we want as a company.
And consistent with that and some of the cross-line sales and discounts for multiline we are seeing a broadening of that target.
We're seeing a larger group of people who are finding us attractive.
They tend to be very profitable.
They tend to bring a need for other products with them.
It's a pretty broad-based improvement and what's interesting is that the new business trends that are up and the retention trends that are up are up in those states where we have implemented those 2 initiatives the price optimization and broadening the target.
So we're seeing them provide the lift that we expected and we're seeing that continue to roll out as we finish installing those tweaks to the rating plan across the country.
So overall it's a slight broadening not in a dramatically different market but a disciplined move to expand our target market to include a greater percentage of people who shop with us.
To all of our participants I know it's a busy day for you.
We got a number people with questions so if you could give us your most important question we'll then commit to try to get through as many of these as we can.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the change in the compensation structure for the agencies.
If I recall that did result in a few agents leaving.
Just curious where we are in the process.
Are we seeing the pace of agents leaving decline? Vinay this is Tom Wilson.
I'm not sure I agree with your premise that people left because of the compensation program.
People choose their -- where they will put their professional efforts based on what they think their ability to succeed is.
Obviously that includes compensation but it also includes their own skills capabilities and their own view of what they want to do in their lives.
So I wouldn't attribute the decline in agencies to the compensation plan.
I would say that our agencies have been going down over the last couple of years.
But if you -- the other thing to look at is the number of licensed sales producers.
So which is really more important is how many people do we have out there selling.
Matt might want to make a comment about -- I think what I would say is if you're really getting at where the agents heads Matt might want to make a comment about agency productivity.
Sure.
So let me try to answer it this way.
The underlying premise to your question is that historically over the last year or 2 we saw a decline in some of the agent population and is that continuing or is that slowing.
And I would say first not all of that was unintended.
We had some expected attrition during that period as we were shifting and trying to get to a more productive agency force.
I would say much like the comments I made about homeowners and other efforts the vast majority of that is behind us.
We've seen agencies prove that they can be very effective with our new structure with our new compensation structure with our new support model and with our new customer value proposition.
So we are seeing a stabilization of agency numbers.
And as Tom mentioned we have a large initiative underway to not only grow the number of agencies but to grow the number of licensed sales professionals which is working quite well right now.
We are seeing net positive growth in many states and we have a series of things we are rolling out to improve the recruiting selection and training and development of those licensed sales professionals and provide additional support to them and enable them to be as successful as we have been focused on for our agency owners.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just as a follow-up on the reinsurance purchases have you considered buying more reinsurance to reduce the volatility on the homeowners side since pricing is low right now? Vinay thanks for your question.
I'll point out it's not really a follow-up.
And I would ask all the next people -- I do want to try and get to everybody.
We're always looking at reinsurance and the right way to shed risk or to keep risk and what's economic and we're comfortable where we're at.
Our next question is from Josh Stirling of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So on Esurance obviously a big uptick in growth in the quarter sequentially helpful.
Wondering what you've learned over the past year and if there's any couple of specific things that you're doing now that's leading to the acceleration of growth.
And then it's not a follow-up but really related just -- is there a target a GAAP combined ratio target that we should be thinking about as your sort of short-term operating goal for Esurance as we look out over the next year or 2? Josh it's Don Civgin.
What I would attribute Esurance's success to thus far is the fact that in a very thoughtful way they focused on what the customer value proposition they're building is.
So when you look at their set of features and services that they provide to their customers they are really quite cutting-edge.
And so first of all they have a really strong offering for their particular customer segment.
Second I think the affiliation with the Allstate brand with Esurance and Allstate company has played very strongly in the market.
That was always something that was a barrier for them from a conversion and retention point of view and the affiliation with the brand Allstate has helped them I think substantially.
And I think the third thing is their advertising campaign their marketing efforts have been quite successful.
And so when I look at kind of the whole results that we're seeing not only we're seeing growth we're seeing -- as a result of the advertising we're seeing better conversion.
As you can tell from the reports we're seeing better retention and they're getting a better mix of customer and so -- with prior insurance and so forth.
So we're feeling good that there are good solid reasons for why they're performing the way they are.
The only thing I'd add on that is and this is important Esurance is getting its growth not from Allstate customers.
So we monitor it very closely and Esurance is taking market share from competitors.
There's no transfer between our brands.
They're just quite honestly winning in that customer segment and we feel good about it.
As it relates to the target combined ratio we would target an economic combined ratio and then decide how flexible we can be on the GAAP combined ratio because as I said before we're running this on an economic basis.
So I would tell you we don't necessarily have a target GAAP ratio.
So long as the business we're building is good solid profitable business we're happy with it.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was looking at the repurchase and maybe I don't understand a few things.
It looks like on the accelerated share repurchase I guess you're through $444 million of the $0.5 billion.
Am I thinking about that correctly? And that means you've paid about $48 in the quarter per share.
It seems a little expensive to me given where the stock traded this quarter.
Maybe I don't understand how this works so you can explain it a little bit.
So Josh we bought back in the open market for the first couple of months of the quarter a couple hundred million dollars of shares and then we pre-funded $500 million in this accelerated program and received 9.2 million shares back.
We will settle that at the end of that program and pay either in more shares or they will hopefully pay us some additional shares but we will pay them a few shares to settle out the deal.
If you look at both the earnings release and the 10-Q we have that broken out for you.
I'm not sure about the $444 million.
I have to check.
Research Division</strong> I was just saying that you guys said you were through $1.33 billion and $226 million plus $1.33 billion leaves me at $1.5 billion.
Got it.
So what that is -- you don't get all the shares back for the $500 million so that reflects effectively the amount of shares they gave us which was based on $425 million at the price on -- I think it was March 1.
So it was not $48.
Josh I would just point out it's going to be cheap relative to what the stock's going to be.
Research Division</strong> I hope so.
That would be my goal.
The other thing I was wondering just in terms of the pace do you expect to be done with the program before hurricane season? Do you expect to be buying during hurricane season? How does that affect your purchasing habits? You mean the accelerated program? Research Division</strong> The accelerated -- and both programs together.
Where do you expect to be come July 1 I guess compared to September 30? So the accelerated program goes as late as July 2 so we don't have control over that.
And after that we will go back to open-market purchases.
So generally if you look in the past 2 or 3 years we slow down during hurricane season.
So probably mid-July through the end of September kind of pending when the storms are we buy less.
And we buy more in the first half of the year and in the fourth quarter.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Could you add some details on how the Drive Wise program is rolling out and what you expect for the next 12 months from that program? Adam this is Tom.
I'll make a general comment about Drive Wise and Matt can talk about the rollout.
So there is a difference between Drive -- first of course all -- there is an odd word telematics which is the analytics connected to the car.
There is a difference between our program and some of the other ones out there in that ours is called Drive Wise because it is a continuous connection with the customers as opposed to a moment in time or one that stops at some point once you get down with the pricing.
Matt can talk about what we're doing to leverage and build that strategy out both near term and longer term.
Sure.
Adam so let me just kind of give you a snap -- an assessment of where we are right now.
So it's been rolled out in 16 states so far including 6 in April.
And we'll continue to roll that out through the year.
We'll probably have 3 or 4 states per quarter.
We've seen very favorable early results from a new business lift perspective.
So as we roll it out the new customers are excited about it and interested in it.
To date we have just over 400 million miles that have been driven by customers using the device.
And of those receiving a driving discount the average savings is actually just about 14%.
So it is both promoting safer driving behavior and resulting in a benefit to the customers.
We've seen a really interesting dynamic on the enrollment.
More than 1/3 of all new customers enroll with Drive Wise when it's available which is a greater take rate than we anticipated as we do this.
Now we're looking at -- as we continue to roll this out we continue to look at next-generation versions of Drive Wise and ways of making it even more affordable for us easier to place into the car with less required interaction on the part of either customers or agents and additional functionality that not only continues to provide us with information about driving habits that we can use to perfect our ratings models and to provide better pricing to certain customers but also that provide additional tangible benefits to customers based upon the new connection now that would be available with our data sources and them in their cars.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Do you think that's helping the new issued applications which really bumped up in the quarter? There's no doubt that it is -- it has some impact but I would say this is a system Adam and it's hard to attribute upticks to any one component.
There's lots of things happening all at once including decline in taking rate including tremendously improved agent productivity and agent engagement.
There's marketing effectiveness with new types of ads.
There's new generations of agency management systems that are helping the agencies be more productive.
So I think there's lots of things contributing to that new business lift but we do know that Drive Wise is providing some lift as well.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Matt I've asked this in the past on some calls and then just ask it again here.
This favorable loss trend you see in the homeowners side how much do you think of that is your own underwriting initiatives? And if that's the case how much of that -- how long are we going to see that benefit in loss trend from what you've been doing with deductibles in roofs and stuff? Did we answer your question last time you asked Brian? Research Division</strong> Yes a couple -- 2 quarters ago you did.
I'm not going to tell you what you said though.
I believe I remember what I said every time which was that I'm not going to give you exact percentages but about half is due to sustainable changes in our model and in our underwriting standards.
And we were benefiting from some favorable weather that contributed about the other half.
Look this is a constantly evolving product line.
As more and more house and home gets in the market and as a greater percentage of our homeowners' book is comprised of house and home product it will impact our sensitivity to certain weather patterns and to certain events.
And as the weather changes and as we continue to get more and more sophisticated in our risk management in our concentration limits and the way we use our full portfolio that's going to change it as well.
You may recall Brian that I mentioned that we look at the homeowners issue as a portfolio.
So we not only have the historical Allstate product we have the new house and home product we have our excess and surplus carrier North Light and we have a multitude of nonproprietary homeowners offerings provided through Ivantage our brokerage capability.
And so as we continue to refine those and stay on top of the trends we think we will continue to make progress.
But weather is weather and it's volatile and we saw that this last quarter.
We saw water claims pop up.
And it was -- we saw a freeze in Arizona in the middle of January that created a 300% increase in pipe burst claims in the month.
That kind of stuff happens and so we just -- we'll stay on top of it and we continue to perfect the product and the underwriting and the risk management as a system.
And our final question today is from Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
I'll just ask actually one question.
What is -- in your opinion what is the normal seasonality for the underlying combined ratio and has that changed as your mix changes a little bit over time? Paul I don't think you can actually -- in terms of first quarter relative to -- are you trying to -- first quarter relative to our 88 to 90 is that what you're headed for? Yes I mean I just want to know if -- I mean in the past companies have talked about sort of like non-cat weather-type impacts that affect things from quarter to quarter and I'm just curious -- you've obviously changed your exposures quite a bit over time -- if that's changed.
Well it's a good question one that is very difficult and really impossible to answer because seasonality of course all depends on whether the -- when you start splitting into what season is it.
Maybe April is spring maybe April is still winter as we saw yesterday.
And then of course it depends when the weather happens not just on the date but the type of -- time of day.
So a hailstorm during heavy traffic costs you a lot more than a hailstorm at night because the cars are in garages.
We've tried to and continue to try to answer your question so that we can look in granularity at the level of profitability in our various states and it's really impossible.
So far we've not been able to correct the code despite lots of computer and intellectual horsepower.
Okay.
Thank you all.
Overall it was a good start to 2013.
We remain focused on executing our strategy which is unique product and services to distinct customer segments.
And then we have our 5 priorities which we'll continue to report back to you on.
Thank you for a little extra time today and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Robert Block Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for Allstate's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
After our prepared remarks presented by Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and myself we will have a question-and-answer session.
Last night we issued our press release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the second quarter 2013 and posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
We also posted a document describing our current reinsurance program.
All of these are available on our website.
This presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2012 our 10-Q for the second quarter and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following the conclusion of the call.
I will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now I'll turn the program over to Tom Wilson.
Tom? Good morning and thanks for investing your time with us.
I'll start by covering the second quarter results as they relate to our strategy and our 2013 priority.
Bob and Steve will cover the business performance and capital actions that we're taking in the quarter.
The performance this quarter is driven by a strong management team who is familiar of course to many of you.
And they're here as well to provide additional perspective in the question-and-answer period.
So Matt Winter who leads our Allstate Agency business; Don Civgin who has responsibility for Allstate Financial and Insurance; Judy Greffin is our Chief Investment Officer; Don Bailey leads the Emerging Businesses; and Sam Pilch is our Corporate Controller.
We generated solid results in the second quarter reflecting the successful execution of our strategy which is to offer unique products and services to distinct customer segments.
This strategy distinguishes us from the other personal lines companies who focus on either one customer segment or just using different methods of distribution.
We believe that a focus on the entire value proposition will lead to longer-term growth and profitability.
You can see positive outcomes from the strategy this quarter particularly as the impacts from restructuring The Allstate brand homeowners business becomes less severe.
On Slide 2 we showed the 4 customer segments and our property-liability results for each one.
There's 3 brands where we underwrite the risks.
Allstate Encompass and Esurance all grew in net written premium and premium and Answer Financial also increased nonproprietary premium.
With the Allstate brand which serves customers who prefer local advice and assistance and a branded experience units declined from the prior year quarter but increased from the first quarter of 2013.
Auto policies were flat versus year ago while homeowners declined by 4.4% reflecting the actions taken to improve returns.
As these profit improvement actions are successful we believe the negative impact on growth will be reduced.
The Allstate agencies did a great job this quarter at very strong results with higher customer satisfaction improved retention for standard auto and homeowners strong new business growth reflecting both the company marketing and local agency initiative.
The action has taken over the last 3 years to position high-performing agencies for success by concentrating and supporting them and restructuring compensation is working.
This segment maintained the profitability of the combined ratio of 94.6% and underlying combined ratio of 85.4% as rate increases essentially offset modest costs and increases.
The Encompass brand in the upper left serves customers who want local advice for the choice of products and services continue to show positive growth with units up 6.8%.
Strategically we remained focus on household penetration with our unique package policy that represents about 75% of Encompass' volume.
The combined ratio in the quarter was 102.4% with an underlying combined ratio of 92.7%.
Pricing and underwriting actions continue to be taken to improve margins.
The Esurance brand serves as self-directed brand-sensitive customer segment and continue to generate significant premium and unit growth as it successfully leverages the benefits of being part of Allstate.
Increased advertising is more effective.
Sophisticated pricing for preferred risk auto customers and improved claim practices are designed to acquire and retain profitable lifetime value customers.
The combined ratio remained high at 119.7% reflecting the high levels of marketing spend and the expensing of acquisition intangibles.
The loss ratio did increase over prior year quarter however reflecting increase by the injury severities and higher-than-expected discount utilization.
Gary Tolman and Esurance team are working closely with Don to adjust pricing and underwriting to ensure we maintain the long-term profitability of this growth.
Overall our customer-focused strategy is strengthening our competitive position.
On Slide 3 we provide a progress report on the 5 operating priorities for 2013.
I've already covered to grow insurance premiums priority for property-liability.
Allstate Financial increased premiums in contract charges 3.6% over the second quarter of 2012.
Net growth in premiums and contract charges for underwritten products is 4.8% with Allstate benefits growing 11.9% compared to the prior year quarter.
We maintained auto profitability in the quarter with a standard auto combined ratio of 97% for the 3 underwriting brands comparable to the second quarter of last year.
The Allstate brand which represents about 90% of the earned premium had the combined ratio 94.9% as 0.6 points better last year's second quarter.
And an underlying combined ratio 94.2% which is slightly higher than the prior year quarter.
We continue to make progress on raising returns in homeowners with a combined ratio of 95.3% a 9.1-point improvement from Q2 2012.
Allstate brand homeowners had a combined ratio of 95.2% and an underlying combined ratio of 62.7% 1.9 points better than the prior year quarter.
Annuity returns did increase in the second quarter but the long-term outlet is still -- outlook is still challenged by low interest rates.
Our fourth goal is to proactively manage investments.
In the second quarter we continued to mitigate the impact of rising interest rates in the property-liability portfolio by selling long bonds and investing in shorter maturities.
If you look over the last 1.5 years the percentage of bonds and maturities longer than 7 years decreased from 46% to 20% of the property-liability portfolio.
If we had not taken this approach investment income of course would've been higher but the value of the portfolio would have declined by more than it did this quarter.
If you just measured over the last 9 months the portfolio would have declined by an additional $400 million as interest rates rose in the second quarter.
The total return for the quarter was a negative 1.5% and the unrealized gain position declined the value by $2.7 billion in the quarter.
The fifth priority is to reduce our cost structure so we can give customers great value with a differentiated offering.
We announced the closing of our call center and introduced employee benefit changes that are effective at the beginning of 2014 that would equalize benefits amongst employees and reduce costs.
We're also eliminating some retiree life insurance benefits starting in 2014 up to 2016.
In the quarter our property-liability expense ratio did increase primarily due to technology and marketing investments to support profitable growth.
Over time we expect this ratio to the decline.
As you know we also took another step to improve shareholder returns from Allstate Financial by entering into an agreement to sell Lincoln Benefit Life to the Resolution Group.
Lincoln Benefit primarily serves customers that want their local advice and a choice of life and annuity products which is the upper left-hand quadrant on the foursquare.
It also manufacture life and annuity products that were sold throughout the agencies.
Strategically we did not have a differentiated offering corporate capability or size that generated track returns as annuity customers independent agencies.
As a result we chose to exit this business as we did variable annuities the bank broker distribution channels and payout annuities.
This will enable us to redeploy capital into higher return activities.
We will retain the life insurance risks written through the Allstate agencies via the Esurance agreement.
We also announced Allstate Financial's decision to stop writing fixed annuities but we will provide Allstate agencies and exclusive financial specialists with similar nonproprietary products so they can fully meet customers needs.
Now let me turn it back over to Bob.
Thanks Tom.
On Slide 4 we provide financial highlights for our consolidated results as well as Property-Liability and Allstate Financial.
Referring to top half of the slide on a consolidated basis we generated net income of $434 million or $0.92 per common share in the second quarter.
The increase over the prior year quarter was primarily driven by higher after tax realized capital gains and operating income more than offsetting the $312 million after tax loss on the repurchase of $1.83 billion debt as part of our capital management program.
Operating income of $529 million or $1.12 per common share increased 22.5% from Q2 2012 driven primarily from lower catastrophe losses in the second quarter 2013 compared to the prior year quarter.
Net income return on equity was 11.6% and 12.3% on an operating income basis both increases from the second quarter 2012.
Details underlying these overall results are shown on the bottom half of the slide.
Property-liability recorded $617 million in net income for the second quarter a significant increase compared to the prior year quarter.
Earned premium of $6.9 billion grew 2.9% from Q2 2012 with a combined ratio of 96.1 and improvement of 1.9 points.
Catastrophe losses in the second quarter were $647 million down $172 million from the prior year quarter.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 86.9% below the full year outlook range and 0.6 points higher than the second quarter of 2012.
Now before the question about updating the outlook range for the underlying combined ratio of 88% to 90% set earlier this year can be raised in the Q&amp;A I want to say that we are not updating the range at this time.
Should the first half trends continue for the second half of 2013 we could finish the year a little better than or at the lower end of this range.
The combined ratios on recorded and underlying basis for each brand are shown on the lower right-hand side of the deck of the exhibit.
The Allstate brand continued to generate solid profitability as positive effects of rate changes essentially offset the modest increases in loss cost on an underlying basis.
Encompass recorded combined ratio results for the quarter were comparable to prior year quarter while the underlying combined ratio improved by 4.3 points.
Esurance combined ratio of the 119.7% remained elevated reflecting the impacts of increased new business volume higher bodily injury severities and increased utilization of price discounts.
Allstate Financial posted net income of $190 million in the quarter an improvement of $58 million from Q2 2012.
Operating income benefited from favorable results in the benefit and investment spreads partially offset by a small increase in operating costs.
Realized capital gains were higher than in second quarter 2012 by $32 million after tax.
Premiums and contract charges increased 3.6% in the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012 helped by an 11.9% increase for Allstate Benefits.
On Slide 5 we provide net written premium and policy in force trends by brand and in total.
The property-liability net written premium increased 4.2% from the second quarter 2012 and overall units were essentially flat with the prior year quarter and grew 177 000 from the first quarter 2013.
Our strategy to provide unique products and services to distinct customer segments is working as net written premium grew compared to the second quarter 2012 for each brand and units also increased from the first quarter 2013.
Within the Allstate brand which serves customers that prefer local advice and assistance in a branded experience standard auto net written premium of $4 billion increased 2.8% from the prior year quarter while units increased sequentially but were flat year-over-year.
Allstate brand homeowners net written premium of $1.7 billion grew 3.3% and unit volume declined at a slower rate than the prior quarter.
The result for both of these lines reflect favorable trends in new business and retention.
On the bottom 2 charts you can see the growth trends for Encompass which serves customers who want local advice but the choice of products and services and Esurance serving self-directed brand sensitive customers.
We'll continue to grow compared to the prior year in net written premium and unit.
And we've been able to maintain margins as that within premium strands improve.
On Slide 6 we have combined the margin trends for Allstate brand standard auto and homeowners on 1 slide.
The charts on the left-hand side of the slide showed the earned premium and loss trends per policy.
While the chart on the right-hand side show the combined ratio trends.
For standard auto losses per policy increased at a rate just slightly higher than the earned premium per policy.
Essentially flat frequencies and modern increases in severities were partially offset by increases in rates.
The combined ratio for standard auto remained at a consistently profitable level.
For Allstate brand homeowners shown on the bottom half of the slide loss cost increases per policy remained at very low levels running below the increase in earned premium per policy.
This resulted in an improvement in the underlying combined ratio of 1.9 points to 62.7%.
The recorded combined ratio for quarter was 95.2% a 9.7.
point gain from prior year.
Now let's go to Steve.
Thank you Bob.
Second quarter investment results reflect continued interest rate risk reduction actions in our property-liability portfolio maintaining alignment with Allstate financial's changing liability profile and continued repositioning of our public equity portfolio to a more targeted strategy.
The carrying value of our portfolio declined $5 billion to $92.3 billion compared to $97.3 billion at year-end reflecting the reduction of Allstate Financial's spread-based liabilities as well as lower fixed income valuations due to higher interest rates.
We continue to increase the equity and owned component of our portfolio from which we expect to generate higher returns over time.
However earnings on these assets will be more variable.
On Slide 7 you can see net investment income totaled $984 million in the second quarter slightly ahead of the prior quarter but lower in the second quarter of 2012.
The decline in core debt income was mitigated somewhat by prepayment fees as well as litigation proceeds which added an aggregate $37 million in net investment income for the quarter.
Total portfolio yield was 4.6% slightly ahead of the prior quarter and consistent with the second quarter of 2012.
Turning to total return in the bottom right graph lower fixed income valuations resulting from significant increase in treasury rates led to a negative total return of 1.5% for the second quarter despite a consistent contribution from net investment income.
An attribution of the change in unrealized capital gains is provided on the bottom left of the slide.
The increase in rates along with somewhat wider credit spreads grew to a $2.4 billion decrease of unrealized capital gains compared to year-end 2012 $2.2 billion of which occurred in the second quarter.
While the decrease in unrealized gains during the quarter was significant we estimate the valuation decline of property-liability portfolio was mitigated by approximately $400 million to the repositioning of the portfolio that began at the third quarter of last year.
Additionally Allstate Financial assets and liabilities are more effectively managed on an economic basis.
We move to Slide 8 the fixed trends on our property-liability and Allstate Financial business units.
As you can see in the graph in the top left the earned yield trend on our property-liability core debt reflects 4 quarters of risk reduction activity.
To our risk reduction actions we positioned the portfolio to be less adversely impacted by increasing interest rates and bodes for our future income to realization of gains and the sale of longer-term securities as shown in the scheduled maturity graph in the upper right.
The current yield on our intermediate corporates our targeted reinvestment proxy is approximately 1 3/4% to 2%.
Given the shortfall relative to the portfolio yield maturity and sales activities have and will continue to result in a decline in net investment income for the core debt portfolio.
For Allstate Financial you can see at the bottom of the page the net investment income has declined as a result of the managed reduction of spread-based liabilities a trend that will be accelerated with the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Over the past few years Allstate Financial's investment cash flows have been used largely to fund liability outflows rather than being reinvested.
So the portfolio yield has not declined as much as the property-liability portfolio.
Future investment income will continue to be impacted by the pace of liability outflows in the reinvestment activity.
Slide 9 provides a recap of the recent transactions we have announced.
In May we initiated a capital management plan designed to increase our capital flexibility to get advantage of the low-interest rate environment.
We purchased $1.83 billion of debt recognizing an after-tax loss of $312 million in the second quarter.
We issued $500 million each of 10-year and 30-year notes and $287.5 million of preferred -- perpetual preferred stock.
We expect to issue an additional of approximately $2 billion perpetual preferred stock and subordinate hybrid debt to complete the debt refinancing pre-fund our $950 million of 2014 maturity and complete the current share repurchase program.
After the quarter closed we announced changes to our pension and life insurance benefits as well as the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
The impacts should be reflected on our financial statements beginning in the third quarter.
The table at the bottom of the slide summarizes the estimated impacts of each on a pro forma basis as if they have occurred on June 30 based on the midpoint for the ranges we have announced.
Our pension and postretirement reliabilities will be remeasured effective July 15 and the impact of the changes in benefits and higher discount rate given the rising interest rates during the year will be recognized for the most part in accumulated other comprehensive income as a component of equity.
A separate curtailment gain related to the changes in retiree life will be recognized in income.
The impact of ongoing retirement and benefit expenses is currently being calculated based upon assumptions as of July 15.
As Sam mentioned the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life exit the business which we did not have a competitive customer or market position.
The transaction reduces our financial risk as expected to free up approximately $1 billion of employable capital.
This capital will be freed up in The Allstate Lincoln Insurance company.
And as you know a number of steps will be necessary for us to move that ultimately to the parent company.
Lincoln Benefit Life will be treated as held for sale beginning in third quarter with its assets and liabilities collapsed in a separate line in the balance sheet.
The estimated loss in sale will be recorded and adjusted in future quarters until the sales close.
We remain in a strong capital position at the end of the second quarter.
Slide 10 shows our capital position at various points in time.
We have split up a long-term debt between senior debt and hybrid debt so you can see the change in the makeup over time.
When our capital plan is fully completed we expect the slit between senior and hybrid debt to be approximately 60% to 40%.
Our estimated statutory surplus at June 30 to $17 billion in total with $13.6 billion estimated for the property-liability companies.
Holding company level assets were $2.4 billion.
As Bob noted our net and operating returns on equity was consistent in the last few quarters in the 11% to 12% range.
Overall a solid quarter will make good practice on the execution of our customer-focused strategy and our 2013 priorities.
With that why don't we open it up to questions? Okay Matt.
Could you start with Q&amp;A? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just one question on standard auto.
I mean it looks like -- so sequentially PIF grew mid -- year-over-year decline was the lowest it has been in a while.
If we were to just roll forward that sequential growth I mean you can be looking at PIF growth for the first time in a long time later this year.
I mean is that something that you're thinking about? Is that something that you're moving towards just given where the profitability is there now? Or you just love your thoughts on that? Mike I assume you're talking about The Allstate brands which...
Yes.
I'd throw it to Matt Winter.
Michael certainly we're looking at that and focused on that.
And our goal is to do what we've been working on for many years which is to position ourselves so that we can get in a position that both new business and retention are improving.
And we retained a strong muscle of auto profitability at the same time.
And so a lot of effort has gone into that.
A lot of that was influenced by actions that we had to take in the homeowners market.
As you know now that a decline in the homeowners PIF has slowed and the new business has picked up there that has also assisted in the standard auto line.
80% of our homeowners new business comes with at least one auto.
And so that in combination with all of the work that the team has done and the agency owners have done to drive new business and improve retention has put us in a position where we're looking forward to continuing to make momentum on the new business and the retention.
And we believe that over time that will yield favorable results for us.
Research Division</strong> So looking at that to 2Q to 1Q sequential I mean is that something -- is that fair to kind of think about extrapolating in terms of your -- internally your own goal to say "Look we're here.
We think we can start turning this into actually positive growth this year?" No it's always dangerous to extrapolate from one quarter.
We think we see a lot of positive trends.
We think we're doing a lot of things that have long-term sustainable impact.
And we believe as long as we're diligent they'll have long-term favorable results.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one quick one on the Life business.
Is there anything in there for the second quarter that is -- that's nonrecurring? I mean when we want to -- let's think about what the economics are there excluding the transaction that you guys just completed.
Is there anything else we need to peel out from those results to have sort of a clean number? Yes I'll let Don answer that but you should not expect the operating interest to stay at its level as that -- obviously there's some one-time items Don can talk about.
But secondly I remember that business keeps keeping smaller.
So as it gets smaller in size obviously it's going to generate less operating income.
Yes I think -- Mike it's Don.
I'd say there's nothing strictly speaking that's nonrecurring.
Nothing from the sale of LBL is reflected in there.
But there's a lot volatility in the investment income line.
And we had a really good quarter.
Our next question is from Josh Stirling of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of years ago you guys identified 13% ROE by 2014 as a sort of the primary operating goal the firm was going to be positioned around.
You've made a lot of progress of that.
You're coming close to -- I think you're regularly sort of hitting at 12% on an operating basis.
Should we still think about that as a 2014 -- as sort of -- as the firm's 2014 objective as you're now starting to work through your annual planning process? Josh this is Tom.
Good memory.
So of course 2 years ago we established the goal of 13% by '14 when we're operating at about a 9% return which was a 400 basis point improvement.
And at that point it was really to show that we had conviction that we could make substantial improvement in returns.
It was not an indicator that 13% was the exact right sweet spot on creating shareholder value.
Now there were some assumptions underneath that 400-basis point improvement.
One was we had to make sure we maintained auto profitability which you see we've continued to.
Second about 70% of that increase was related to improving returns in homeowners.
And we're well on our way there in fact we're getting somewhere we'll get into that this morning and Matt can give an update on that.
But there were 2 other goals: one was maintain investment income and rates have moved down by about 250 basis points since that time.
So we're not on track to do -- to maintain that portion of the increase.
And then lastly it was to raise returns of Allstate Financial from about 9% to 10%.
And as you can see -- and because of the interest rates and some other things that are going on there we're not at that point either.
So we're working hard on those last 2 items as you know.
At the same time we're also investing more in Esurance than we thought we were because we like their growth there.
And we've changed the capital structure so there's a bunch of moving pieces in there.
As we get closer to 2014 we'll be updating our range and you'll be able to figure out with where the capital structure is and where we are what it will look like for next year.
But we're not giving any indication.
I'll tell you though our goal of course is just to get as attractive a return as we can while driving growth in the business in the environment win.
But I don't want it us to blindly chase a number that's an accounting number as opposed to an economic number which ultimately drives shareholder value.
So working hard on driving it up.
But -- so for example when we shortened the duration in the portfolio which saves us a bunch of money this quarter.
Of course if you just mark-to-market this quarter that would have took away some of that ROE.
But we thought it was a good trade from a risk-return standpoint.
So we're going to always manage to what we think is good long-term value and then we'll update it as we go forward this 2014.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful Tom.
I guess I'll just ask the obvious -- the follow-up question that you sort of teed up on which is on homeowners margin expansion.
Is that -- would you guys still think of that as the primary earnings lever I mean recognizing that you're doing a bunch of stuff expenses expenses on the both on the debt side as well as internally.
But is that still sort of the primary lever we should be focused on? And the question would be: How much more good news do you think you can get out of the various initiatives House &amp; Home and things like that you're pursuing today? Well I'll let Matt talk about what he's doing.
I'll just remind you we think we've captured a lot of where we were.
We were in the 70s underlying combined ratio at that time.
I don't remember the exact number Josh but now we're in the low 60s which is where we said we thought we need to go.
Matt is doing a whole bunch of things though and with his team to take it from what would became a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace for competitive advantage.
And I'll let him talk about both that and sustainability and profitability.
Sure.
Thanks for the question.
You're correct that we've looked to homeowners for several years to improve the overall profitability of the enterprise.
Well the good news is the underlying profitability continues to improve as we benefit from some of the actions taken in the last several quarters.
It has allowed us to begin growth if you look at new business growth in homeowners and retention.
Both are improved as we've had to take less rate because we're closer to rate adequate.
And all the House &amp; Home that goes in goes in as rate adequate.
So we're -- we continue to make improvement in what we have and at this point as we put on profitable high-margin high-return business our goal is to figure out how to do more and more of that while remaining in the proper risk profiles.
So a lot of the work we're doing now has to do with how we manage that risk how we manage concentration risk and how we can manage those 2 elements and still grow and continue to expand the homeowners business and all the auto that -- and other products that come with it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In the Allstate brands premium growth is now at the highest levels since 2005.
And my sense is there's a number of numerical drivers to that but one of the most interesting would be the recovery in homeowners.
I mean for example I'm hearing in New York and the drive time in the morning more advertising.
So maybe you can talk a little bit about the level of comfort of increasing the homeowners' exposure? And then also other personal lines is showing by far the fastest growth among The Allstate brands.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about what's driving that and whether you're getting cross-selling opportunities as a result? Jay I'll let -- maybe Matt can talk about perhaps what he's -- he already talked a little bit about what he's doing at House &amp; Home.
But maybe he can talk a little bit about PML optimization or probable maximum loss optimization.
And then Don Bailey can give you some insights into what we're doing on the other lines which is of course focused around -- the strategy that Matt is trying to execute or is executing with our agencies is about selling lots of stuff to these customers.
So you're right to think about it as a total package as opposed to a line.
Way too often people started looking at us and talking about a single product when really we're talking about the variety the breadth and longevity of our relationship.
So Jay I'm glad that our advertising spend is hitting you and that you're hearing it.
As I mentioned I believe at the last call as well one of the areas that we're spending a lot of time on in homeowners is PML optimization.
And the other is what we call aggregate risk management which is really just looking at our homeowners portfolio in figuring out at a more granular and sophisticated level how we could use diversification benefit how we could use various combinations of product sets and features and reinsurance to manage to grow in some areas without increasing above an acceptable level our probable maximum loss or our concentration risk.
And so what you're seeing now in New York is a very careful and I think very disciplined way of thoughtfully growing a little bit within the state in those areas that do not pose undue concentration risk or PML risk for us.
So we're doing it fairly thoughtfully.
We're doing it in a way that maximizes the overall number of products that it brings to us.
And so as Tom mentioned we're trying to look at this from a household perspective not a single line perspective.
So what you'll see is we may be growing more in those areas where we get multiple products with the Home as opposed to a single non-line [ph] Home.
And with that I'll turn it over to Don Bailey who can talk to you a little bit about the other personal lines.
Thanks Matt.
So as Tom mentioned the other personal lines incorporates a portfolio of additional products.
And we have if you listen to the language in the hallways here really changed the language -- Matt certainly led that with us trying to pivot from more of a product-focused organization to a household-focused organization for all the right reasons.
Our close rates go up retention rates go up profitability improves as a result.
And the consumer household lines as we refer to them really are critical in terms of making progress in that effort.
So the language has certainly changed but a lot of other things have changed for us too over the last several months.
Our training in this regard has changed.
Technology has substantially improved to help enable more of these cross-sells and household penetration.
The product design aspects of these portfolio have evolved to be more agent-friendly to be more consumer-friendly.
And so we made progress there.
And then our expectations of all of us and everybody in the field and of our agents have changed in terms of what we are seeking in terms of an outcome on this phase.
So the last thing that we've done is we put leadership focused specifically on that.
Let's make progress on that.
Let's hit targets on that.
Let's make sure this is a meaningful piece of our success story as we go forward.
So yes you'll see that in there.
It's not by accident.
I would just point out on Page 25 of the supplement we've started to break out the -- how we look at our customers and trying to help you see that we can't separate where our customer relationship from where we deployed capital.
So you'll see advantage where we sell other people's products to the agencies.
You'll see the nonproprietary premiums at the bottom of that which is -- almost $1.4 billion.
So that gets to the point that Matt and Don were just making.
And what we're doing with the annuities as well which is we want to sell those to our customers we know our customers need and want them.
It helps our relationship but it's not a place where we choose to deploy capital.
So we've been able to separate those by getting more sophisticated.
Research Division</strong> On the issue of Encompass one of the challenges there appears to be the standard auto and continuing to run well above the 100% combined ratio level.
What's the issue there and kind of effect? So on the -- this is Don Bailey.
On the Encompass piece if you'd look at the loss ratio -- if you look at the underlying loss ratio you'll see that we've actually improved rather substantially on that on a year-over-year basis.
And why is that? We've had a move from probably a further with a mono-line or segment auto approach to a package approach.
The auto line performs far better in a package than it does on a standalone basis.
So we've made meaningful changes in moving our portfolio forward in that regard and we're seeing progress in that unacceptable number as a result.
We're also taking meaningful rates in that space as well.
So while the number isn't where we want it to be today there clearly is underlying improvement there and it will continue to be as we go forward.
Our next question is from Meyer Shields from Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions on Allstate Protection.
One we did see a slight uptick in the underlying loss ratio for Allstate brand standard auto.
Is it fair to attribute that to the improving Allstate count growth? And is there -- can you talk about how much more of that increase if you're will be willing to tolerate for the sake of policy growth? Matt did that.
Yes I would point out just a slight uptick remember there's -- as you know there's a lot of variability in sort of frequency.
It varies on quarter-by-quarter basis.
Hey Meyer it's Matt.
You should not think of it as a trade-off between profitability and growth because that's not what we're doing.
We are focused on growing and maintaining profitability.
So it's not a question of -- that we're letting our combined ratio creep up in order to facilitate growth.
I think most of the uptick that you see is attributable to 2 pieces of the loss ratio.
The PD paid severity and the BI paid severity.
So let me take you through those.
The PD paid severity was elevated in the quarter.
But if you recall in the first quarter PD severity was below prior year by almost a point.
And we attributed that to the subro demands that were at significantly lower than normal levels.
Those subros typically carry a higher severity than average claims.
And in the second quarter what we've seen is a higher-than-normal subro demands about 25% higher actually.
And our working hypothesis is that due to Superstorm Sandy the other carriers' workloads were such for the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year that they delayed the subro processing and the payments until the second quarter.
So we are seeing that uptick.
Now it's merely a delay from the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter this year but on a normalized annual basis it's right in line with our historical average.
On the BI paid severity I mentioned last quarter that we were accelerating the closure of older more complex claims.
And that in combination with the change in state mix and liability limits contributed to the increase.
If you take that -- those 2 pieces out the remainder was in line with medical care CPI.
And so that has actually come down off of that peak as we've said as we work through more of those older more complex claims.
And we're moving much closer to historical norms which around the medical care CPI.
The only place that you can see any "investment" in our growth show up in the combined ratio is we pointed out that we did make some targeted investments in technology and marketing this quarter which have shown up in the expense ratio.
Those were intentional.
We believe this was the right time to make some targeted investments in technology and marketing in order to push momentum and provide our agents with the tools and the stability they need to handle this higher volume.
And it's certainly controllable and will continue to monitor when it makes sense to continue to invest in those 2 areas and when it may make sense to slowdown that investment.
Meyer let me also make one overall strategic comments of course price is obviously very important as you point out as a driver of customer's decision-making.
But that's not the only component of our strategy.
Our strategy of course is to give a highly focused customer value proposition that means good price to value.
So price is not the only lever as what Matt is saying that you can drive growth.
Whether it's better technology so the agencies can do a better job knowing who their customers are whether it's new products and launching those.
We have a multifaceted way that we're seeking to grow not just -- we don't view it as just a price and profit trade off for growth.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was very thorough.
I appreciate it.
On the homeowners side when we look at the aggregated lower reinsurance spend that you disclosed last night I guess does that still translate in -- let me ask this differently.
Do you expect to retain the savings for the past month to customers? Or -- and is the overall internal cat provision lower or higher than it was 12 months ago? The internal tax provision? I...
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> No.
Catastrophe provision.
Oh catastrophe provision.
Well let me take a shot at it and see if anyone else wants to join in here because it's a complicated question.
If you go way up we looked at hurricane or earthquake losses and said we don't want to have those losses.
So -- but we don't want to get rid of the homeowners line so we're going to sort of synthetically divest some significant portion of those by using reinsurance.
And that's how we get started in doing reinsurance.
When we first did that we were not able to pass that to in our higher rates because it takes a while to get it through the regulators.
Since that time we made a bunch of changes to our filings and most of it but not all of it gets passed through.
So as costs come down we would expect over time that to be factored into our pricing.
That may or may not translate into different homeowners prices because there's all kinds of other pieces of loss cost going through there.
And we may or may not be getting it back for -- that portion of the company where the reduction comes from.
We don't really have an internal way in which you're describing it so we -- Matt works with Steve and Sam and they figure out what the right balance is working with our Enterprise Risk and Return Council with inside the guidelines.
So there's not really -- there's nothing we're doing internally that would confuse the reported results.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In regards to Allstate brand auto rate actions so if I look at the 10-Q it shows 0.4% rate increases on a year-to-date basis in 21 states.
So I was curious is that the level of rate increases we should be thinking about through year end? And if so does that imply that the you're okay allowing the loss ratio to rise a little bit? Well let me start at the end.
No we're not okay allowing the loss ratio to rise a little bit.
What you're seeing is a 1-month -- 1-quarter snapshot in what should be viewed on a much longer basis.
So if you go back historically and that's long before I took over this role the company has been very good about consistently reflecting its experience and what it was seeing in these rates and taking rates as needed.
Not holding back on rate actions hoping that stuff goes away.
Not holding back on rate actions in order to capture market share but passing those through as they were experienced and as we were seeing them.
And as a result sometimes we have what I refer to as a first mover disadvantaged because we took rates sooner than some of our competitors and on a more consistent basis.
And sometimes it's actually to our benefit because we got out ahead of the curve.
I think what you're seeing now is we're out ahead of the curve in many areas.
And also suggest you go back several years 2 or 3 years.
The vast majority of the rate that you were seeing was driven by a couple of very large states notably Florida and New York.
If you go back to 2010 somewhere in the neighborhood of 70% of the overall country rate that you saw was driven by those 2 states.
Now that those 2 states have returned to profitability and are requiring less rate action it's the smaller states where we've taken consistent rate as needed that are just vacillating.
And we will continue to monitor it closely.
We will take rates as needed.
We are not deliberately trying to let loss ratios float up as you refer to.
We're going to continue to do what we've always done.
It's just that our timing is better because we did the hard work upfront and it cost us upfront.
If you go back several years you saw that on the homeowners side and the auto side and now we're actually benefiting from that timing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
Lastly in regards to the initiative to issue additional hybrid debt in the coming year do you expect to take advantage of the debt-to-capital equity credit? I think I believe that's provided by the rating agencies for those types of securities and to potentially repurchase stock in excess of earnings taking advantage of that credit.
So our goal -- our first program we announced last December our share repurchase was effectively a hybrid debt for equity swap.
We said we would issue $1 billion of hybrids we would buy back $1 billion of stock.
So we have actually been working on that specific transaction for 2013.
The rest of the program about $2 billion more we expect to issue hopefully during the course of the rest of this year maybe $750 million or so of hybrids and $1 billion $1.25 billion of preferred.
That is part of our capital management strategy we have previously talked about and does not impact any future share repurchase program which we generally look at once a year towards the beginning of the year as part of our strategic planning process.
Our next question is from Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Related to what you talked about with Mike on pricing I just see 2 very different pricing strategies at Esurance versus Allstate brand.
What are you reacting to at Esurance which has rather meaningful price increases versus what's your reaction with Allstate brand where you think you can be moderate? Josh it's Don.
It's Don Civgin.
Let me talk a little bit about Esurance first.
First of all Esurance obviously was -- is designed for an different customer value proposition.
Different product different features and it competes in a different market.
The transaction -- 1.5 years into it -- you guys have been through this before where you're 1.5 years into a transaction and lots of things are going wrong.
In this particular case I'm proud of the fact that Esurance has really only one thing that we're focused on right now.
And a lot of things have gone well.
The integration has gone well advertising brand linkage all of that's worked well.
The combined ratio is high part of it is high because of the advertising expense that we've talked about before but the loss ratio on the second quarter was higher than Gary or I were anticipating or would like.
We are taking price increases.
We've taken them -- if you look over the course of last few quarters we've taken them pretty consistently as well.
Those decisions are independent from what Matt is doing on The Allstate brand.
What we're trying to do at Esurance is make sure that the combination of the loss results as well as the rest of the expenses result in an economic combined ratio over the life of the product.
So I'm less concerned about the advertising expense being elevated than I am over the life of that customer.
Are we having a good economic combined ratio that gives me good return on capital and create shareholder value? So that's why we've taken the price increases in the last quarter.
And I'll be honest I think we're going to continue to take some price increases going forward in spite of the fact that might pressure some of the growth we've seen.
It's the right thing to do to get the loss ratio to where we want it to be.
So Josh it's Matt.
Let me just follow-on on The Allstate brand part.
First of all as Don explained it's a different segment and it's a different block of business.
There historical business has been somewhat different than The Allstate brand and they started in a different place.
So it's somewhat deceptive to look at price increases without knowing where the starting point was.
We experienced that in homeowners over the last several years.
It depends where your start.
It depends upon how much of a price increase -- rate increase you have to take.
And so as we have different blocks and different starting points it's not surprising that in some places Esurance may have to take more significant rate than Allstate brand.
And it might happen that we're doing just the opposite in some states at some point in the future.
I would think of them as somewhat independent.
Research Division</strong> That's perfectly appropriate.
Looking at the homeowners that you still bled about 41 000 homeowners between 1Q '13 and 2Q '13.
Where are you in terms of shaping the portfolio to where you want it to be from a catastrophe perspective? And two were you in the process of trying to win back customers who you lost in the reshaping process and you actually -- if you could have tailor-made it perfectly for you you would have never non-renewed? This is Matt again.
We're making good progress in our efforts.
Once again I can't tell you either what inning we're in or what yard line we are but I can tell you I feel good about the progress that's been made.
And I think the fact that if the client has slowed dramatically and consistently over the last several quarters is an indication that we are -- we have less work to do and we're taking less severe action there.
That being said it's all going to depend upon the combination of new business and retention.
So new business was up 35% in the second quarter.
That's great.
It accelerated the improvements seen in the previous quarters but retention is going to be one of our core levers there.
And retention did tick up last quarter but I still think we work to do.
And it's not just on the winning back of those customers who we may non-renewed previously but it's also keeping those customers we have.
And so we have a fairly concerted effort on the retention front.
New business -- the new business engine is moving specially with House &amp; Home which the growth in -- new business growth for House &amp; Home is about 6 points higher than it is for the countrywide average.
So the House &amp; Home initiative certainly is helping us on the new business side.
But the lever that I think we have to pull even harder is the retention one.
And certainly as we have less profitability actions to take as we have less rate to put in and less nonrenewals and less strict underwriting guidelines.
As we return to a more normalized level my expectation is we'll continue to see improvement on retention as well.
Research Division</strong> And to what extent do look at the marketplace and see your competitors also re-underwriting their books? I mean I'm not right now in the market for homeowners insurance.
But I imagine everyone tells me it's pretty hard to find a reasonable rate.
I'm surprised retention isn't better given the lack of options? Let me move aside because I want to make sure we get people time for questions.
So I think Matt here is getting a long-term plan to start to grow the business and you'll start to see that play out as we go forward.
Our next question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Janney Montgomery.
Research Division</strong> It looks like you're giving us an early warning that you may improve your guidance in underwriting although you didn't go all the way through.
That's with a little negative wiggle in Esurance so what are you seeing and what are the biggest drivers that's coming in better than you thought beginning of the year given that Esurance sounds like it might be a slight negative in your -- versus earlier expectations? Bob this is Tom.
Look confused about it.
It's a early warning on an improvement in one's forecast [indiscernible] but we -- what we did is of course 5 or 6 years years ago.
We moved away from the guidance and we said we'll just tell you what we think the underlying combined ratio will be for the year.
We put in at a range -- frequency bounces around from year-to-year.
It's weather-driven a whole bunch of things.
You can easily get a point move in a combined ratio just from frequency.
Severity obviously can bounce around as well.
So we try to put a range on it.
We're feeling good about where we are in that range particularly since we're below the range and we're 6 months in.
But you should not expect us to be updating the range because what happens is you update the range it eventually moves into a quarterly forecast.
Because you give the -- give it for a year then you give it for the next 9 months then the next 6 months then the next thing you know you're doing it for the last quarter.
And because it bounces around a lot by quarter we think the best way to communicate to you all is how are we doing relative to what we expect is the annual range.
So -- and we think that's the right way doing it at a calendar year basis.
So we're just Bob is just making a point that we feel pretty good about where we're at.
We don't see a lot of adverse trends in frequency or severity when you look at the first 6 months of the year.
So we feel good about where we're at in the range.
If you just do the math we'd have to have a pretty good bump to be above the range in the second half here.
And we're letting you know we don't think that's going to happen.
But we're also not getting into the process of re-forecasting that range every quarter.
Research Division</strong> So you're seeing vanilla frequency severity trends here contributing to the potential upside? I think the way in which we do business is contributing to the consistency of the results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one quick follow-up.
On the life side financial services side you're going to be discontinuing 20% or 30% of the earnings? Is that what you were saying before the deal closes? What is this sort of core running rate of what's left.
This is Steve.
What we disclosed is roughly about 1/4 of the earnings is what's earned by the businesses that we are selling.
As we go forward -- that will be out of our earnings next year it will still be earnings for this year until the closing date which we are hopeful subject to regulatory approval would be the end of the year.
I missed out the second part of your question? Research Division</strong> Well what is the core run rate of -- so you're saying 75% of Q2 which was a little bit high is sort of...
Yes sort of...
Bob it's Don.
I think what we've disclosed is that a number of about $130 million or so of run rate income is going to leave the company when we complete the transaction.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> The first question is on the ROE levels that you want to pull right now.
It seems that on both the homeowners and the auto you're pretty close to where you want to be.
And so I'm just curious if I'm looking forward to this year versus this year what ROE levels are you looking to pull? Vinay we'll be able to figure that out when we get to next year's outlook which will be in the fourth quarter when we typically give the -- after fourth quarter results we give next year.
So there's a bunch of moving pieces here in terms of what happens to investment income what happens to the capital structure where we are in frequency and severity in the last half of the year how much progress would feel how much growth there is.
So we're not prepared to say what we're going to do next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is on the pension and life benefits those reductions.
You've disclosed the impact like the net impact on net earnings this year.
But just curious as to what's going to be the recurring benefit on a quarterly basis because of lower expenses? So this is Steve.
We were currently calculating that.
We have to do it on the basis of the date we announced the changes July 15.
So the actual rate is we haven't had time to really calculate that.
What we disclosed was the impact on the balance sheet really and not at a period of time and an estimated range.
Not the actual income statement impact which I don't have a handle on it right now.
But it'll be a good number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And will you guys let it flow to the bottom line? Or are you looking to give it back to the policyholders in the form of lower rates? We don't -- as I was saying before we don't look at everything in terms of reducing price to drive growth.
We have a consistent strategy.
So as we've said we want our expense ratio to come down while we're delivering good differentiated value.
But as Matt pointed out they took some -- he took some actions to invest in things like technology and marketing to drive growth.
So we don't specifically target individual actions and put them through into a 1-part portion of the value proposition.
Your next question is from Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Could you just review with us kind of what's left in the life insurance financial business that's not part of the core either the -- as I understand the core business of selling traditional life insurance through the agencies and the work side marketing business.
And kind of what is the operating strategy at the moment for those units? Paul it's Tom.
Let me give you an overview and then Don can talk about specifically that piece.
So as you remember the strategy that we started a couple of years ago when Matt Lutz [ph] was leading that business was to: one be focused on The Allstate agencies; and two to be focused on the work site so you're correct on that.
We continue to refine that strategy.
And of course Lincoln Benefit is an outcome of -- the natural outcome of that.
Don also just recently announced shutting down the fixed annuity business through those agencies.
So that's a continued refinement narrows it down a little bit.
So it's really life insurance.
And from a manufacturing standpoint it's life insurance to The Allstate agencies.
From a providing coverage for our customers it's everything.
We sell variable annuities we sold that business in 2006 and we're still selling a lot of those.
We sell mutual funds we sell -- we'll sell fixed annuities we sell long-term care.
We sell a whole bunch of things through our agencies.
So you have to kind of distinguish between what are we doing for those customers and what are we underwriting.
And -- but then also there's about $32 billion block of annuities which are in several different forms that we still have still will retain when we get done with the Lincoln Benefit transaction.
And Don can talk about what our strategy is there.
Okay.
Paul it's a -- let me try to answer it this way.
When Matt first started with this strategy for the life business it was a 6% return business.
We got that number up to about 8% now mostly through improvements in operating income.
We've still got some elevated capital levels and we're working hard to reduce those as well.
I think Tom said it right.
You have to view what's left from a customer point of view and then kind of what the liabilities are.
From a customer point of view we're fully committed to meeting the customer value proposition that Allstate has to the Allstate customer through our agency distribution agencies and exclusive financial specialists.
We are going to manufacture life products.
We've historically had good returns in that business.
We will continue to use our paper to write that product.
But on the annuity side we're basically out of the business as it relates to putting it on our balance sheet.
The LBL transaction takes with it about $13 billion of reserves $9 billion of that is annuities.
So that's strategically very important because it continues to reduce our exposure to the spread business.
When you look at it from a balance sheet point of view we have light blocks and we have annuity blocks.
As Tom said the annuity blocks are still larger than we'd like.
And we continue to work both on the liability side and the asset side to find ways to make that accretive to our income as opposed to a dilutive which is what it's doing now.
And the life business we want to grow.
We like the liabilities there.
I think we've had historically good results.
We're good at those products but again back to the customer point of view they will not see a difference as to whether it's going on our paper or somebody else's paper.
Well last question please? Our follow-up question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It seems like frequency for the last 3 years in auto had been pretty much nonexistent.
Any theories on why that is? And what you think is going to happen going forward? Adam Tom.
Matt can talk about it.
But I guess I would just characterize it.
We wouldn't say it's nonexistent.
Perhaps it hasn't been increasing rapidly but it's still there.
But in terms of pressure on loss ratio Matt can talk about it.
Yes.
I wish it would completely disappear.
This business would be easy.
But we're actually looking at it and we call it benign.
It's stable and it's stable and it's performing within the historical ranges.
And so we're not experiencing pressure from the frequency side but that's on a countrywide basis.
And so we have to monitor it on a much more granular basis.
We'll continue to look at it on a geography-by-geography basis.
In some cases it may tick up and we'll get on it quickly.
But from a countrywide basis we've seen it stabilize within the historical range.
And Adam this is Tom.
On a longer-term basis of course you're absolutely right it's been declining.
So whether that's the age of the population increased sophistication of the car or the fewer miles driven because of gas prices and the recession you do see a long-term trend on.
We're paying attention to that particularly on that second item with safer cars with machine-to-machine communication which is why we think our strategy of selling multiple things to the customers is the right way to go.
Because if you carry that trend line out to Matt's point if you really had no accidents you wouldn't need much insurance.
And so we're seeking to try to protect all our customers from all of life's uncertainties which is why doing the life insurance piece having homeowners doing boat insurance personal umbrella policies.
And in wrapping all of our stuff around that customer so they have kind of a circle of protection is why it's important for us.
So you're right it's been benign.
And that's why you see basically very little increase in our average premium.
So customers continue to pay a good price -- pay the right price for what the risks they have.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up.
How is that Drive Wise rollout going? And is that helping growth at all? Do you think? It's Matt.
Thanks for asking.
It's going well.
We've now rolled out in 20 states as of the end of June.
We hope to put on another 8 to 10 through the second half of the year.
Very favorable early results.
I think I talked a little bit about it on the last call.
To date we have about little over 600 million miles through the system 20 million hours driven by the customers.
We're seeing double-digit growth per month in devices installed in the vehicles.
And over 1/3 of the new customers take Drive Wise when offered in those states where it's available.
So the acceptance rate is high about 70% of the users are receiving a discount.
That discount averages around 10% to 12%.
So they're taking advantage of it.
We're learning from it.
The customers are benefiting from it.
So it's -- that's a positive story all the way around.
And Adam I would point out too.
Remember there's a difference between our strategy and some other people in the business not everybody but ours is to stay connected as Matt talked about.
So we're working as opposed to using it for just pricing.
Ours is about pricing but it's also about finding other ways to stay connected with the customers.
Thank you all for participating.
We've made good progress this quarter on strategic initiatives including our focus on the customer raising returns and homeowners deploying capital in the right places and enhancing our financial strength.
We've also made great progress on the 5 priorities.
And we'll keep working hard on your behalf as we go through the rest of the year.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Steve Shebik Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for Allstate's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson and me we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Last night we issued our press release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the third quarter 2013 and posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are all available on our website.
This presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2012 our 10-Q for the third quarter and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following the conclusion of the call.
We'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Well good morning and thanks for investing your time with us.
I'll start by covering the third quarter results as they relate to our strategy and then our 2013 priorities.
Now Bob Block is not with us today.
He's attending to a health issue.
So Steve will cover both the business performance and capital sections of the presentation.
Also today -- with us here today are Matt Winter who of course leads Allstate Personal Lines; Don Civgin who is responsible for Allstate Financial and Esurance; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; Don Bailey who leads the Emerging businesses; and then Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
Now if you look at the quarter in total we generated very strong results.
It really reflects the broad and comprehensive approach we've taken to creating shareholder value.
Operating income was strong and we made progress on all of our 2013 operating priorities.
Growth improved and we made progress on balancing risk and return and deploying capital to enhance returns.
Starting with Slide 2.
It summarizes our third quarter results.
Revenues increased to $8.5 billion which is up 4.1%.
That reflects a 5.3% growth in net written premium with contributions from all of the customer segments and businesses.
Net income of $310 million declined from the prior year quarter primarily due to the $475 million after-tax loss from the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Operating income of $713 million was essentially equal to the last year's third quarter while operating income per diluted share increased as a result of our share repurchase program.
Our book value per common share increased both with and without fixed income on realized gains and losses.
On Slide 3 we show the 4 distinct customer segments that drive our competitively differentiated approach to the market and our results in each.
The 3 brands where we underwrite risk that's Allstate Encompass and Esurance all grew net written premium.
Answer Financial also increased its nonproprietary premium.
Now for The Allstate brand which serves customers who prefer local advice assistance and a branded experience policies declined by 0.4% from the prior year quarter as growth in standard auto was offset by continued reductions in homeowner policies.
Allstate brand's standard auto policies increased 1.1% versus 1 year ago and 0.6% versus last quarter reflecting continued improved retention and strong new business growth.
We've made substantial progress in improving returns in homeowners and as a result the decline in homeowners policies has lessened.
Total homeowner policies declined by 3.2% from a year ago and 0.3% versus last quarter.
We're beginning to take steps to position this line as a competitive -- so it becomes a competitive advantage for us as opposed to a drag on overall growth.
Actions taken to position high-performing agencies for success including more effective compensation programs is also working and agencies are expanding.
The profitability improvement in this segment with a combined ratio of 86.4 and an underlying combined ratio of 85.4.
The Esurance brand which is in the lower right serves the self-directed brand-sensitive customer and continues to generate significant premium in unit growth as it successfully leverages the benefits of being part of Allstate.
Increased advertising that's more effective better pricing for preferred risk auto customers and improved claim practices are designed to acquire and retain profitable lifetime value customers.
The combined ratio remained high at 116.8 in part reflecting the high levels of marketing spend the expensing of acquisition intangibles and the impact of higher loss ratios on new business.
The Esurance team is working to adjust pricing underwriting to ensure that this growth will generate long-term profitability.
These actions caused growth to decelerate in the third quarter if you look from month-to-month and we expect growth to decline somewhat in 2014.
The Encompass brand which is in the upper left serves consumers who want local advice but a choice of products and services.
That continue to show positive growth of policies up 7.2% compared to the prior year quarter.
Strategically we remained focused on household penetration with our unique package product that represents about 75% of Encompass' volume.
The combined ratio on the quarter was 93.6 an improvement of 6 points from the prior year quarter with an underlying combined ratio 92.5.
The improvement in the combined ratio reflects a favorable reserve reestimate.
On Slide 4 we show a progress report on our 5 2013 operating priorities.
I've already covered the Grow Insurance Premiums priority for property-liability and that's the first 5 sub bullets there.
Allstate Financial's premiums and contract charges also increased by 3.7% over the third quarter of 2012.
The growth in premiums and contract charges for underwritten products was 4.4% with Allstate Benefits growing approximately 10% compared to the prior year quarter.
Our second priority is to maintain auto profitability.
The Allstate brand had a standard auto combined ratio of 94.9 which was 3 points higher than last year's third quarter due to lower favorable reserve reestimates.
When you look at the underlying combined ratio it was 94.6 which is 0.9 points higher than the prior quarter.
That increase reflects a modest increase in frequency and severity and a higher expense ratio which is offset in part by higher average premiums.
Esurance and Encompass had a combined ratio improvement in the quarter when compared to the prior year quarter but more work is required to improve returns on these 2 brands.
Our third priority is to focus on returns in homeowners and annuities.
We continue to make progress on raising returns in homeowners with an Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio of 65.3 with an underlying combined ratio of 61.8 which is 4.4 points better than the prior quarter.
With the underlying combined ratios tracking towards the low 60s for the last several quarters we believe we are now positioned to focus on building a sustainable competitive advantage in homeowners.
Annuity returns improved in the quarter but the long-term outlook is still challenged by low interest rates.
Given our favorable strong underlying results for the quarter it's reasonable to ask if we'll end the year below our 2013 annual outlook of 88 to 90.
We believe the annual outlooks are the appropriate way to manage expectations of profitability so we're not providing a change to the range for just the fourth quarter.
We will announce an outlook range for 2014 when we report the full results for this year.
Our fourth goal is to proactively manage investment.
Net investment income benefited from higher income on investments and limited partnerships in the quarter.
We continue to position the property-liability portfolio with a shorter duration to mitigate the impact of rising interest rates and Steve will take you through some graphs that make that very clear.
And while this action generates current capital gains and lowers our risk profile it obviously reduces the portfolio yield and future operating income.
Total returns for the quarter was 1% on modestly higher net investment income and really minimal changes in the overall valuation of the portfolio.
Now the fifth priority is to reduce our cost structure so we can give customers greater value with a differentiated offering.
During the quarter we reduced the cost structure through simplification and process improvement initiatives.
We also restructured our employee and retiree benefit programs to make benefits more consistent amongst employees and adjusted current market practices.
Our property-liability expense ratio increased in the third quarter compared to the same period last year but has sequentially improved since the first quarter of this year.
Investments are being made in technology and to expand Esurance's geographic and product footprint.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Tom.
On Slide 5 we provide financial highlights for Property-Liability and Allstate Financial.
Property-liability had earned premium of $7.0 billion which grew 4.1% from the third quarter of 2012 with a combined ratio of 90.0.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 86.9 0.9 points better than Q3 2012.
And the year-to-date underlying combined ratio was 87.2 better than our full year outlook range.
Catastrophe losses were $128 million $78 million below the third quarter of 2012 and the lowest third quarter losses since 2002.
As a result net income was $656 million in third quarter 2.7% higher than the prior year quarter.
The combined ratios on a recorded and underlying basis for each brand are shown on the right side of the exhibit.
The Allstate brand continues to generate solid profitability as the positive effects of rate changes and low catastrophe losses more than offset the modest increases in loss cost.
The Encompass recorded combined ratio for the quarter improved from the prior year quarter reflecting favorable reserve reestimates.
The Esurance combined ratio of 116.8 improved 1.7 points from the prior year quarter; however it remained elevated as Tom noted.
Allstate Financial on the bottom left had a 3.7% increase in premiums and contract charges in the quarter compared to the third quarter last year helped by underwritten products increasing 4.4% including an approximately 10% increase for Allstate Benefits.
The benefit spread declined in the quarter due to an increase in reserves related to our annual review of reserve assumptions partially offset by improved mortality in life insurance.
The investment spread decline reflects a $169 million pretax gain in the prior year associated with updating input used in the valuation of certain embedded derivatives.
Operating income which excludes this gain improved 30.9% from the prior year quarter due to lower credit interest on spread-based liabilities and improved mortality in life insurance partially offset by a higher charge associated with our annual comprehensive review of DAC and reserve assumptions.
The net loss was $360 million in the quarter due to the loss on the pending disposition of Lincoln Benefit Life.
On Slide 6 we provide net written premium and policies in force trends by brand and in total.
For total Property-Liability in the upper left net written premium increased 5.3% from the third quarter of 2012 and overall policies grew 0.8%.
Our strategy to provide unique products and services to distinct consumer segments is working as both net written premium and policies grew for each brand compared to last quarter.
Moving to the upper right chart.
Total Allstate brand grew as standard auto net written premium increased 3.3% from prior year while policies increased 1.1% compared to the third quarter of 2012 and 0.6% compared to last quarter.
Allstate brand's homeowners net written premium grew 5.5% while unit volume declined at a slower rate than last quarter.
The results for both of these lines reflect favorable trends in retention and new business.
On the bottom 2 charts you can see the growth trends for Encompass and Esurance.
Both continue to grow compared to the prior year quarter in both written premium and policies.
While growth trends have improved we've maintained overall margins.
On Slide 7 the charts on the left side of the slide show the earned premium and loss per policy trends while the charts on the right-hand side show the combined ratio trends.
For standard auto losses per policy increased at a rate just slightly higher than the earned premium per policy as you can see in the upper left where the blue line is above the red line.
Essentially moderate increases in frequencies and severities were offset by rate increases.
The combined ratio for standard auto remained consistently profitable as shown in the upper-right chart where the red bar is generally around the 95 combined ratio.
For Allstate brand homeowners shown in the bottom half of the slide loss cost per policy decreased while earned premium per policy increased; with the blue line substantially below the red premium line.
These resulted in an improvement in underlying combined ratio of 4.4 points to 61.8.
The recorded combined ratio for the quarter was 65.3 a 7.6-point improvement from the prior year quarter reflecting the improved underlying margin and lower catastrophes.
The combined ratio trends are shown in the lower right-hand chart and you can see our underlying 12-month average is about 63 the lowest point in all quarters shown.
On Slide 8 third quarter investment results reflect actions we have taken to reduce interest rate risk in our Property-Liability portfolio maintain alignment with Allstate Financial's changing liability profile and reposition our public equity portfolio.
The carrying value of our portfolio totaled $80.5 billion compared to $97.3 billion at year end.
The decline is primarily in our core debt portfolio reflecting the $12.2 billion reclassification of Lincoln Benefit Life's investments to "held for sale" due to LBL's pending sale as well as lower fixed income valuations driven by a significant rise in interest rates since the beginning of the year.
The equity and owned component of our portfolio continues to grow.
We expect to earn higher but more variable returns over time on this part of our portfolio.
On the top of Slide 8 you can see net investment income totaled $950 million in the third quarter and total portfolio yield is 4.5% both below prior quarter but better than the third quarter of 2012.
Low reinvestment yields and a smaller asset base driven by reductions in Allstate Financial's spread-based liability resulted in lower income in our core debt portfolio.
The decline was partially mitigated by $36 million in prepayment fees and litigation proceeds.
Our equity and owned portfolio continued to benefit from strong limited partnership earnings which increased by $84 million compared to the prior year quarter and more than offset the decline in the core debt portfolio income.
At September 30 2013 limited partnership valuation included approximately $400 million of cumulative appreciation that have been recognized in our income but has not been distributed.
This amount is carried on our balance sheet as an asset but is subject to variability in the ultimate realization.
If cash proceeds are less than its valuation it will negatively impact future operating income.
Moving to total return.
The total return for the quarter was 1.0%.
Net investment income was a primary driver as treasury rates were relatively stable for the quarter.
And attribution of the change in net unrealized capital gains for the first 3 quarters of the year is provided on the bottom-right of the slide.
The fixed income valuation decline driven by a significant increase in treasury rates was the overwhelming driver of a $2.7 billion decline in unrealized gains for the first half of the year.
For the third quarter positive equity valuations and realized loss activity offset the impact of the additional modest declines in fixed income valuations as the net unrealized position held relatively steady.
Slide 9 depicts trends in our Property-Liability in Allstate Financial portfolio separately.
You can see a declining earned yield trend on our Property-Liability core debt in a graph at the top left reflecting maturity reinvestments and our ongoing risk-reduction activity.
Through our rate risk-reduction actions we have positioned the portfolio to be less sensitive to an increase in interest rates and have pulled forward our future income through the realization of gains and the sale of longer-term securities.
In a scheduled maturity graph in the upper right the 2 declining red bars at the longest maturities represent that only -- reflect that only 15% of our current portfolio is due after 7 years versus 32% at the end of last year.
The current yield on intermediate corporates which is our targeted reinvestment proxy is approximately 1.75% to 2%.
Given the shortfall relative to the portfolio yield maturity and sales activities have and are expected to continue to result in a decline in net investment income for the core debt portfolio.
At the bottom of the page you can see that Allstate Financial's net investments income has declined as a result of the managed reduction of the spread-based liabilities a trend that will be accelerated with the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Over the past few years Allstate Financial's investment cash flows have been used largely to fund liability outflows rather than being reinvested.
So the portfolio yield has not declined as much as the Property-Liability portfolio.
Further our future investment income will continue to be impacted by the pace of the liability outflows and reinvestment activity.
The exhibit provides a pro forma view of portfolio results exclusive of LBL-related assets.
As you can see in the -- on the bottom-left chart in the last column in the table the core debt portfolio yield remains essentially unchanged around 5% but the investment income is approximately $140 million lower excluding the LBL-related assets.
The chart on the bottom right shows the ongoing decline in the Allstate Financial portfolio as we continue to reduce spread-based liabilities.
Moving on to Slide 10 we provide a roadmap of items that impacted the results this quarter.
Last quarter we announced the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life which is a business serving customers in the upper-left customer quadrant with life and annuity products who did not have a competitive advantage.
Lincoln Benefit Life is treated as held-for-sale beginning this quarter with its assets and liabilities collapsed into separate lines on the balance sheet.
We estimated $475 million after tax loss on sale as recorded in Loss on Disposition on our income statement.
We expect this transaction to close early in the first quarter of 2014 subject to regulatory approval.
After closing we'll have lower financial risk and additional deployable capital of approximately $1 billion.
This capital will be freed up in Allstate Life Insurance Company and a number of steps will be necessary for us to move into the parent company post closing.
As discussed last quarter we made changes to our pension and postretirement benefits which caused the liabilities to be remeasured in July.
This resulted in a change in our liabilities; favorably impacted shareholder's equity by $658 million; a curtailment gain related to changes in our retiree life favorably impacted net income by $118 million; and a pension settlement charge included operating income of $49 million.
We'll also perform an annual remeasurement of our pension liability during the fourth quarter and are likely to have additional settlement losses of a similar or greater magnitude at that time.
Our annual review of the discontinued lines of coverage reserves resulted in a negative after-tax impact totaling $86 million compared to a negative impact last year of $25 million.
This year's review resulted in a pretax increase to asbestos reserves of $74 million and of our metal reserves of $30 million and other exposures at $30 million.
I've already mentioned our annual comprehensive review of DAC and reserve assumptions at Allstate Financial which negatively impacted operating income by $44 million this year compared to a negative impact of $21 million last year.
Slide 11 shows our capital position at September 30 compared to the same period a year ago.
We remain in a strong capital position at the end of the third quarter.
This quarter we returned $608 million to shareholders.
We repurchased 2.1% of our outstanding stock or 9.8 million shares compared to $0.25 per share quarterly dividend.
We have $589 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
As we continue to execute our capital management plan our balance sheet has changed as we have previously described.
We issued $800 million of subordinated hybrid debt and $385 million of perpetual preferred stock in the third quarter bringing our total preferred stock to $673 million.
Our estimated statutory surplus at September 30 2013 is $17.3 billion in total with $13.9 billion estimated for the Property-Liability companies.
Holding company level assets were $2.8 billion.
Net income return on common shareholders equity was 9.0% and 12.0% on an operating income basis.
Operating income ROE declined due to higher capital levels at September 30 2013 and lower operating income for the trailing 12-month period primarily reflecting higher catastrophes caused by Super Storm Sandy in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net income ROE declined primarily due to lower operating income and the loss in disposition of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Overall a strong quarter in which we made good progress in the execution of our customer-focused strategy and 2013 priorities.
Now Matt let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It seems like -- first of all let me wish Bob Block a speedy recovery so we can beat him up and have fun with him again soon.
On the agent count are we in a position that you could be able to grow that over the next 3 to 5 years? Tom what's your outlook there? Bob first thanks for the comments about our own Bob.
He's listening so I'm sure he'll be happy to hear that you want to beat him up.
The -- let me make a comment and then I'll turn it over to Matt.
First when you look over a longer period of time 3 to 4 years we knew we were going into this slow growth segment with trying to fix homeowners.
We knew they would impact auto and we also knew that we needed to help our most successful agencies become more successful.
And those that could not get there needed to find another way to earn a living and not take care of our customers.
So we made a whole bunch of changes.
Some -- and then of course we always have turnovers.
So we went down from like over 11 000 to like 9 000 as you point out of agency owners.
And that helped build up the size of the average agency from about 1 800 policies to over 2 500 which gives them more skills and capabilities which is -- gets to the other point that I'd like to make is it's really about the number of feet on the street we have.
So it's the number of agents that -- agencies we have as well as the number of people licensed sales professionals they have in their offices.
And that number has continued to go up in part because we've built a system which is very supportive of them.
Everything from new technology rolled out to the compensation programs to the way in which we help them grow their businesses.
So Matt can talk about the specific plans he has to grow.
But I think you're correct in that we are positioned now to begin to grow distribution in The Allstate Agency channel.
Bob it's Matt.
Thanks for the question.
As Tom said we look at total sales professionals including exclusive agents our licensed sales professionals our exclusive financial specialists The Allstate independent agents.
So we're looking at the number of points of presence on the street capable of selling The Allstate products.
But we're not just looking at it in terms of numbers.
As Tom said we're looking at it in terms of numbers productivity of those existing points of presence and the geographic distribution to ensure that we have appropriate market penetration.
One of the consequences of shutting down The Allstate direct operation and shifting all of The Allstate assets The Allstate brand assets to an agency model is that various geographies in the past were covered by the direct operation and did not have sufficient Allstate agencies on the street.
That's part of the Heartland that's part of -- pieces of New England.
And so we have fairly aggressive initiatives underway to put points of presence where they need to be so we can appropriately serve customers throughout the United States.
So you should expect to see not only numbers improve and productivity improved but the geographic distribution change over time as we analyze it from a market potential and a market penetration perspective as well.
Research Division</strong> Thoughtful answers.
Just a follow-up.
You had year-over-year growth in PIF and Allstate brand auto and certainly insurance is showing good growth.
So both of those units seem to be bucking the trend of the aggregators which some of your competitors are starting to complain about.
Did you see that at all as an issue in Encompass? Or are you a little just less immune to the aggregators' impact because of your current product mix? Bob this is Tom.
I would say if you're talking about aggregators like Answer Financial it continues to grow.
It of course has a relationship with Esurance where it takes a lot of the quotes that Esurance does not close and then gets those customers placed with somebody else so that we can still serve them.
And as you saw their premiums were up this quarter as well.
As it relates to each individual market we are seeing the competition change in each segment.
So many people in the lower left with The Allstate agencies are starting to pursue similar strategies to us in terms of product differentiation and bundling.
In the Esurance side you're not seeing people pursue the bundling.
And we're just getting started there and starting to -- we just rolled out in one state Homeowners.
But Esurance has not only the potential of a good low-cost model and an ever-increasing strength in its brand to be able to then broaden the product suite from there.
And Encompass has a specific focus.
So rather than just try to sell standalone auto policies it's really trying to sell both an auto and a home policy together which is our packaged policy.
So we think that getting the right customer value propositions for each segment is the way to compete.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on some of the auto questions.
Your new issued applications are up roughly 15% in The Allstate brand.
Could you talk about it? And that's a big jump from what it was a couple of quarters ago.
What's driven that big jump in applications? That's number one.
But also number two within those applications are those more within your core preferred? Or is that moving more into the standard market for auto? Adam I'll get Matt to talk about new business.
But let me just point out that the biggest driver of growth in this quarter actually or this year in auto is retention.
So new business is obviously important to us but the retention of -- is moved up about 0.7 points.
So I'll ask Matt to talk first about new business but then he'll probably want to talk some about the broad-base improvements we have in retention as well because that's -- I guess that's another factor driving your question or your comment.
Adam it's Matt.
Thanks for your question.
As Tom said auto growth this quarter and auto growth generally is driven in large part by increased new business and better retention.
On the new business side what we've seen is roughly 3 quarters of the lift came from improvements in our closed rate and the remaining quarter is driven by quoting more customers.
So if you look at the closed-rate component I'd say the vast majority of that has to do with continued enhancement of our pricing methodology our agency reengagement and the increased home availability.
All of those combined to improve our close rates.
On the quote volume piece it's certainly what we just talked about with Bob it's increased points of presence and its reengagement of the agency force that's driving more quotes through the sales funnel.
When you get to the renewal side we saw widespread improvement in renewal rates.
But the majority of the improvement on that side on the retention side in September -- through September is a result of New York and Florida improvements.
Now certainly it's not only those 2 but those were the 2 biggest levers on the retention side.
A number of other factors like increased homeowner availability customer experience initiatives we have a much better rate management in place so there's less rate disruption.
And all of that has contributed to the retention improvement as well.
Research Division</strong> So -- I'm not asking for prediction but as particularly as your homeowner product becomes more competitive going forward does that have the potential to continue to pick up your standard auto retention going farther? Well certainly without predicting as I've said on a previous call about 80% of our new house and home sales are coming with at least 1 auto.
So it's a system as we've said before.
We talked about home availability impacting both the new business side and the retention side since we're able to keep a stronger relationship with the customer.
But it's also customer experience rate management.
It's the level of advice and service provided by The Allstate agency.
And of course it's just the sheer numbers of feet on the street capable of representing the Allstate brand and serving our customers.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First just wanted to circle back on the positive PIF growth year-over-year in The Allstate brand.
It's the first time I believe in about 5 years.
So the question I've been getting is the sustainability of that trend of positive growth going forward.
Jay it's Tom.
I think if you look back over the last say 8 quarters and do a trend analysis you'll see that the negative impact on homeowners peaked about 1 year ago at about 6.5% down by quarter in terms of the number of policies we've done.
And as we said this quarter it's come down to 3.5%.
And if you look at the trend analysis on price changes in homeowners you'll see that that's also come down.
So that trend line should continue which as Matt pointed out is helpful to not disrupting our current customers.
And then in addition as they rollout House &amp; Home that should drive the auto line up.
So the auto line that you're pointing to has a similar trend line.
And you can do the same kind of math.
If you just look at it it's continued to go.
I think we should be able to -- and our goal is to pick up share in all of our brands and we're clearly picking up share in Esurance and Encompass.
The Allstate channel's not yet to the point where it's picking up share in its segment but I believe that the broad-based system and approach that Matt's taking will do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on lost cost trends within the Allstate brand standard auto it is the second quarter of losses exceeding earned premium growth and both frequency and severity were higher in 2Q.
I'm just trying to get a sense of the -- what's driving that? Matt can talk about profitability management specifically and what he's doing there.
A couple of general comments I would make is that first frequency bounces around a lot as do paid severities in BI in particular.
So depending on which cases you're settling.
And we feel good about the reserves we have up which are a little different than paid.
So we feel good that we've accurately recorded the profitability and frequency is just within its normal range.
But Matt can talk about what he does to adapt to that going forward.
I would say we have though a organizational system which over the last 10 years if you look at our profitability in auto we know how to adjust and adapt if you look back at our performance.
Matt you can talk -- will talk about what he does with the specific trends you're talking about.
And he may have some comments about specific places he's working on.
Sure.
So as Tom said we've looked at it fairly carefully.
We're confident it's not a quality of business or a systemic issue.
It's normal volatility.
It's within our 3-year historical ranges and it's within our expectations.
We manage to the overall combined ratio targets knowing that the individual components will move over time.
So one of my favorite sayings and one of the ways we manage this business is "You can't stop the waves but you can learn to surf." And that's kind of how we think about it.
The waves are the normal volatility in the business it's movement of BI it's PIF fraud it's economic changes it's competitor actions it's weather changes.
And we are set up not trying to fight those waves or not trying to prevent them from occurring but to ride them.
And so we use pricing we use sophisticated pricing methodologies we use rate actions we use underwriting actions we use process changes and most importantly we use our 14 market operating committees and 15 including Canada to give us early warning and detection of the movement of those waves so that we're able to react appropriately to them quickly get out in front of them and be able to ride them.
And my opinion having watched this team over the last several years is we have a bunch of tremendous surfers out there who are very good at reading the waves and getting on top of them.
And I think the team overall does a remarkably good job of managing that.
So these ins and outs in volatility frequency and severity while we always explore them and research them to make sure they're not systemic they do not concern us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a separate one for Don.
In terms of getting the freed-up capital from the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life out to the holding company for share buybacks how quickly could that occur? Jay this is Tom.
That's really a question for Steve I think.
Okay.
So first we have to close the deal which is we believe early first quarter of next year.
We have dividend limitations which we'll have to get state regulatory approval to actually move the cash up to The Allstate Insurance company and again from the Allstate Insurance company up to All Corp.
There are other alternative ways we might be able to move the capital through a repurchase of some of the equity ownership of Allstate Life from -- Allstate Life by Allstate Insurance company which could get us up another level.
But we still have to pay dividend up to All Corp.
So it all requires regulatory approval is the bottom line.
We're in a strong capital position so we're hopeful that our -- we apply for that that we'll get favorable results.
Our next question is from Mike Zaremski of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question Tom.
In regards to the goal of reducing Allstate Protection's expense ratio over time I was curious if the major initiatives to drive that decline are already in motion because I know there's been a lot of expense initiatives.
And related is part of the reason for the initiative due to the desire to bring Allstate's cost down closer to competitors who are gaining market share? Mike a couple of things.
First I would say we're always trying to reduce expenses around here.
So the challenge we've had in reduced -- and we've done that over the last 4 or 5 years.
The challenge we had in terms of the expense ratio was that the top line was going down so you had to reduce your expenses faster than your top line was going down particularly when it related to the number of policies you have.
So we weren't offsetting inflation in some of our other costs.
So that was our first challenge.
Second what are we doing now? We're continuing that.
We have a different approach to it so we're really looking at more continuous improvement actions to continue to take costs out.
Our cost though it depends how you slice and dice it.
We look at it by segment.
And so when you look at the lower left that's a different cost structure than the lower right.
And when you -- so if you look at it you have to really look at the cost relative to State Farm Nationwide Farmers because those are the people providing the same kind of value proposition.
So you can't say that the agency expense is too high because the agency does a lot of work.
And our customers love our agencies and they're happy to pay for our agencies.
Those customers in the lower right want to do it themselves.
And so you have to make sure your expenses are -- right there are relative to GEICO and Progressive Direct.
So we look at the expenses relative to the customer value proposition that we deliver to people.
When you look -- so -- and we think we can do a better job in all of our segments so there's lots of -- we already should be able to take cost out with the improvements in technology data management and global sourcing.
So that's part of why we're saying it's part of our effort which is we're supposed to deliver good value for our customers.
When you look at it by component and if you look at advertising expenses we think we're very efficient and effective whether that's our float rates that you heard are up or it's the close rates at Esurance.
So we feel good about the advertising component.
So when you look at technology which is another large component of our expenses we -- actually I think we're in the top quartile in terms of best in terms of cost per line of code delivered because of the way we do it.
That said we think there are ways we can simplify our processes.
We still have too many processes that are legacy-based and too much what I just like to call built-up wax.
So you should expect our expense ratio to come down over time.
I would like you to think about it relative to the customer value proposition that we're delivering not just who's growing and who is not growing.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful and thorough.
Last question is in regards to investment income levels.
You guys gave great disclosures thank you but there's still a lot of moving parts.
I was hoping to get some guidance.
So on the 10-Q it looks to be about $56 billion of assets maturing through 2014 between P&amp;NC and Life.
And if we -- probably at least a 100 basis point lower yield -- higher yield than current new money rates I'd guess.
And there's also a lot of life insurance spread-based liabilities moving off the balance sheet.
So I guess at the end of the day I'm just trying to -- if you net out everything together what's the dollar amount of investments we should be sizing up as needing to be reinvested at potentially lower new money rates 2014? I'll get -- Judy will answer the question on that.
First I agree.
It's difficult to project investment income with what's both going out in the markets what we're doing with Lincoln benefit and what we're doing from a risk and return standpoint.
So that is why we try to have as much transparency as we can.
The number sounds high to me in terms of what's rolling and Judy will talk about that.
But let me maybe just say our philosophy on this is we're going to make the appropriate risk return tradeoff for our shareholders not do something just to maintain operating income so that we make somebody's estimates for operating earnings if it's a bad idea for our shareholders.
A good example of that is the shortening that Steve showed you on the Property-Liability portfolio.
We could have had higher and would have had higher operating income this year had we not shortened that portfolio.
We're not trying to trade interest rates we just didn't think it was a good risk return tradeoff to be longer than 7 years.
So we sold about as much of that as we could.
So as you're thinking about our investment performance you should obviously look at how much we deliver in operating earnings per share because that's what you and we are all held accountable for.
But also think about it in terms of our total return and say do you think we're getting the right total return relative to the risk that we've taken? Judy can you take on this $56 billion number? Sure.
So not sure where you're getting the $56 billion number.
But if you look at our notes we do outline the maturity profile of the overall portfolio on Page 10 of the notes.
And in 1 year it's about $2.5 billion.
And in longer than 1 less than 5 it's closer to $22 billion.
And plus Steve also outlined for the property and casualty company in the presentation that also shows what's coming off in the property and casualty portfolio which is significantly less than the $56 billion.
When you think about what's going on in Allstate Financial as Steve said and what we've said in previous quarters that's largely a cash-matched book.
And LBL really doesn't change that the sale of LBL.
So as Steve said we're going to lose about $12 billion in assets under management when LBL goes away but that doesn't really change our maturity profile as much as -- I would think of it more as a cash-matched portion of the book is going away and the balance of the portfolio stays largely in line with where it should be.
When you said 100 basis points that's about right.
Our portfolio yield at this point is a little over 3% and our reinvest proxy as investment is intermediate corporate.
So that's about between 1.75% and 2% so it is about 100 basis points differential.
But it's not anywhere close to the $56 billion that you're mentioning.
Those hits [ph] have run off.
Our next question is from Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see -- maybe ask about Esurance and whether or not some of the changes you've made and some of the things that you've experienced the last couple of quarters have changed your thinking about scale in that business and whether or not your view of sort of how big you need to get there has changed in order to be sort of scaled profitable? Paul this is Tom.
Let me make sure I understand the question.
Our view of scale we think Esurance is of scale today but we're more than willing to invest a fair amount of money in advertising which we break out in the disclosures which is more than it would support if you didn't want to grow it.
But we -- actually I think there's a great opportunity to grow the business because we have a unique value proposition which we're continuing to build out.
So maybe help me think through a little more on the scale piece.
Well I guess advertising is part of that scale right? That the all-in -- eventually the all-in costs have to get to the point where we're profitable.
Are we -- is your thinking there changed when we're going to get to the point where it's all-in profitable? Yes that's helpful.
Thank you.
I have a better sense of where you're trying to go with it.
First we think -- we look at it and the way Don runs the business and you can talk about it in a second here with Gary Tolman is that we have to have profitable lifetime value by customer cohorts so what we write in a particular year.
Given that you have large upfront advertising expenses obviously the first year you lose money.
And then you make money after it because your advertising expenses are not required really for retention.
So you have a large loss.
As it relates to the total P&amp;L what I've said to Don is as long as you're writing lifetime value business which gives us a good return on capital I'm prepared to keep funding the growth because it's a good economic deal for our shareholders even if the advertising costs are such that they more than offset the earnings you get from retention business.
So I'm willing to write an overall loss at Esurance as long as we're growing economic value for the shareholders.
We obviously could stop that any time we wanted and it would -- the combined ratio would drop down into a profitable standpoint.
Don you might want to just talk about how you're managing and thinking about lifetime value.
Yes.
Paul first of all I do agree with Tom.
I don't think it's a matter of balancing scale and profitability it's more growth and profitability.
And so with PIF up over 30% more than prior year that gets called into question.
So when you look at the combined ratio that they're running underlying is about 111.5.
Because of the accounting model there are 3 things going on.
First is the advertising gets expensed upfront as Tom said.
We run it as Tom said based on the lifetime value of the business we're writing.
So we're running it for economics.
We take into account the acquisition costs that's running in line with what we expect.
Retention is running in line with what we expect if not a little better.
So we feel good about that.
The second issue is the loss ratio.
And I'll be honest the loss ratio it continues to be a little bit higher than we'd like.
Gary and the team are on it.
It's a few states.
We're taking the right actions on pricing.
If you look at the supplement you'll see we've been consistently taking pricing actions where necessary throughout the year.
But -- so I feel comfortable we'll get that back in line.
But that's the second reason the compounded ratio is high.
I think the third one is just investment in expenses.
I mean we're building out states.
We're building out product lines.
As Tom said we sold our first homeowners policy last week in a bundled fashion.
We've got motorcycle we've got renters and that requires a lot of upfront work to get those filings done and get the product ready to go including technology investments.
So I feel good about that.
I feel good about the advertising response.
A little bit of work to do still on the loss ratio.
But overall all those things put together so long as we're making money on an economic basis we're going to continue to grow the business.
So Paul let me -- it's Tom.
Let me maybe make one other comment.
If you look at the increase in premiums in average rate that we show in the supplement you can see that in The Allstate brand auto -- if you just add up the last 4 quarters you can't really add them up but it's easier math but it's a little less than 2%.
If you look at Esurance it's a little less than 6%.
And if you look at Encompass it's a little less than 6% too.
So both of those latter 2 businesses we believe we still have work to do to improve profitability in the auto business.
Not so much work that we want to shut growth off completely but you may see growth in those 2 lines come down next year as we work harder to deal with the issue that Don talked about in terms of loss ratio.
At the same time you should see the trend that Jay talked about in The Allstate brand go the other way.
And of course remember that the Allstate brand in terms of total items in force is about 15x the size of those 2 individually and of course 7x to 8x the combination of them.
So we don't need as much growth.
So if we give up x points of growth in Esurance and Encompass because we're trying to manage the loss ratio we don't need nearly that percentage increase in the Allstate channel to get overall growth.
And we're trying to grow not only in each channel but we're trying to grow the overall company.
That was perfect.
Second question.
And I actually know the answer but I'm going to ask you anyway.
The new accounting I've been asking everybody what they -- if they want to comment on the new GAAP accounting that's coming down the pipe.
Are you talking about insurance contracts and IFRS? Yes sir.
The new FASB proposal.
Sam has been actively involved in shaping that.
I think I would comment that it's not the answer you just gave us which is perfect.
I'm going to write that down Paul that we gave you a perfect answer.
But we don't think it's a perfect answer.
Sam might have a view as to -- we've been very public about our statements on it.
Paul Sam Pilch.
The -- yes we filed a comment letter with the FASB and the IASB last week.
And our view that the proposed accounting standards are radically different than the current.
In fact there is very little carryforward if any from the current standards that are proposed.
The framework of the standards is to contribute to solvency measurement and performance and have deviated from historical performance reporting for financial purposes.
So we have strong views that are different than proposed and we advocate improvements to the current model but not of any great significance very targeted.
Did I respond to your question? That's also perfect.
Our next question is from Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Good quarter; new auto apps were up 20-ish almost 20% even though you raised pricing in standard auto by something like 3% last quarter.
Let me say that's great you're not seeing much of a trade-off there.
But against this folks like Progressive seem to be sort of selectively reducing pricing and Travelers are talking about a big double-digit reduction to auto new business.
And so I guess that tees up 2 important questions.
The first is how does more competitive pricing in the independent agency channel actually affect you in your exclusive channel? And second I think driving a lot of this is people and companies talking a lot about price elasticity.
And I'm wondering what you think your elasticity looks like in the exclusive channel and how you think that compares to the independent? Josh I would go this way.
First we don't think it's all about price.
If you're in the -- if you go back to our quadrant if you're in the upper end of the -- upper side to those it's clearly more price-sensitive because those customers are sort of like "Just give me a name I recognize." So they tend to be a little more price-sensitive.
We've tried to design our value propositions to recognize price is important but that value is equally important.
We don't get as much leakage between independent agencies pricing and the captive channel.
When you look at where our business comes from or where it goes there's not -- obviously people who want local advice go to the same kind of person but we don't see a huge amount of pressure.
If somebody in the independent agency channel takes that price down we don't see a big change there.
The -- as it relates to overall pricing I would say we're sort of in line this year with our -- if you look at the top 3 competitors top 7 states we look in line with those people; not a big difference.
Progressive might be at the low end.
GEICO and State Farm would be slightly higher.
But in the range of -- hard for a customer to tell.
If you're talking about 0.5 points $1 000 a year $900 a year you're talking about $5 so it doesn't really matter from a price elasticity standpoint.
As it relates to what other people do in the future I think Matt described how we run our business.
We do the same thing in Esurance and Encompass which is highly specific we watch our cost look at our value proposition make sure it's fair to our customers.
So I wouldn't -- and as it relates to Travelers taking big decrease I think theirs was also related to a different product and Don Bailey is shaking may have some comment.
But I think you're starting to see more people move to product differentiations.
So if you look over a longer period of time competition first was on sophisticated pricing then it moved to advertising particularly in the branded channels.
And now it's moving to product differentiation.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful that's helpful.
And if I can just ask just one more quick question.
Severity last year everybody was generally concerned about it.
It led to a bunch of price increases.
Your guys' metrics I mean are still going up of course but seem to be moderating a bit.
And there was some commentary coming from other companies that sort of suggested maybe the severity spike that everybody feared hasn't materialized.
And I'm wondering if you guys have any color around that or whether maybe people are just reacting to noise? I think I would go back to Matt's comment that to the extent we have cost pressures and we think they're real we increase our prices.
If we think it's just noise we don't.
If you look at our overall pricing it's been less than 2% over the last 12 months.
So we're feeling okay about where we're at.
Our final question today is from Mike Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on -- want to square the deployable capital.
So it looks like about $2 billion of run rate LBL $1 billion at some point in the future.
I remember you talked about the preferred issue that you sort of balance sheet rightsizing you did late last year creating another certain amount of capital plus the hold co.
of cash of about $1 billion.
Just want to think about -- first off how much on the preferred capital movement capital generation is yet to come? And how should we think about the right amount of liquidity you need to hold on to like on a go-forward basis once you clear all these stacks? And then just one follow-up.
I'll let Steve answer the preferred question.
So on the preferred side we've issued somewhere over $600 million so far.
We're planning to issue about $1.5 billion.
So kind of as the market allows over the next several months.
The proceeds of that will generally be used for general corporate purposes.
But we do have $950 million of debt maturing next spring and summer and we may need the cash to pay that down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the timeline for the remainder of the liquidity? Like how much cash should we think about you kind of hanging on to it the holding company on I mean a run rate? Okay.
This is Tom.
So Mike what we do is every year we wait until we get the statutory.
We try to look at our capital plan in sort of January February and then let shareholders know what we're going to do for the next 12 months.
So we still have about $600 million left on our current share repurchase program so we're out buying that back.
And then in February when we get done with sort of how the year turned out where was the where was statutory capital and then we look forward and say how do we feel about earnings profitability of the business.
And therefore we then come up with a share repurchase dividend plan out of that which is based on how much cash we think we need.
Obviously we don't think we need $2.8 billion at the holding company.
So let me actually close kind of around that which is to say if you just look at the quarter a bunch of things that come together at the same time and they all happen to show up in the P&amp;L which really reflects our broad-based approach to try and drive shareholder value.
So we are -- we've been maintaining profitability in the auto business.
We've dramatically improved profitability in the homeowners business.
Obviously this quarter with cash incredibly low it really showed up.
But we think it shifts it to a more sustainable position which gives us that strength Mike as you're talking about in terms of earnings power in terms of giving us confidence to do it.
At the same time we've made some strategic moves to -- which give us increased capital called Lincoln -- the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
At the same time we're working to improve the strength of the balance sheet by issuing things like Preferred really at little cost to the shareholders in terms of current earnings.
And at the same time we're buying back a bunch of stock and paying what is a great cash on cash return to shareholders which cash on cash is both dividends and then the shares we buy back.
So it's a very strong side we're in [ph].
And we're going to be in a better position I believe at the end of this year on that.
And we still have plenty of capacity to fund the growth that you're start -- are now starting to see.
So we feel good about the way everything came together.
You wouldn't expect it all to hit the P&amp;L all in one quarter but it did.
And we feel like we've been successful in driving shareholder value which relates into increasing the value of your shares.
Thank you very much for investing your time to continue and learn more about our performance.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Steven Shebik Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Matt.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for Allstate's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
After the prepared remarks by Tom Wilson and myself we will have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday following the close of the market we issued our press release and investor supplement posted a slide presentation to be used in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
These are all available on our website.
We plan to file our 2013 Form 10-K on Wednesday February 19.
As noted on the first slide our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2012 and our 10-Q for the third quarter of 2013 the slides and our most recent press release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our press release and on our website.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I along with our Treasurer Mario Rizzo; and Pat Macellaro from Investor Relations will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now let me turn it over to Tom Wilson.
Well good morning.
Thank you for investing your time and money in Allstate.
I'll start by covering our 2013 results as they relate to our strategy and our operating priorities for both 2013 and 2014.
Steve will then go through the business unit results and talk about capital management.
With us today for the Q&amp;A period are Matt Winter who of course leads Allstate Personal Lines; Don Civgin who's responsible for Allstate Financial and Insurance; Kathy Mabe who leads Allstate Business To Business Operations; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
So let's begin on Slide 2.
Our strong 2013 results demonstrate success in executing what is a broad and comprehensive approach at creating shareholder value.
That includes obviously strong operating income; a balancing risk and return; aggressive capital management; and you see accelerating growth as well this quarter which are all resulting from achieving our operating priorities for the year.
Overall 2013 provides a very solid foundation as we continue to aggressively implement our strategy which is to differentiate the value proposition between customer segments.
Let's start at the top.
Revenues increased 3.6% to $34.5 billion in 2013 which reflects 1.5% growth in policies and of course with contributions from all the brands.
Net income of $2.3 billion declined slightly from 2012 primarily due to the $521 million after-tax loss from the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life and the impact from repurchasing debt.
Operating income of $2.7 billion for the year was 24% higher than 2012 primarily due to lower catastrophe losses.
Operating income per diluted share increased 30% to $5.68 per share as a result of higher operating income and the impact of the share repurchases.
Book value per common share also increased over the prior year both including and excluding fixed income unrealized gains and losses.
Operating return on equity was 14.5% in the latest 12 months.
If you go to Slide 3 on the top we show our 5 operating priorities for 2013.
On the bottom we show the 4 distinct consumer segments we serve through our competitively differentiated strategy along with the respective growth in profitability.
The 3 brands where we underwrite risk Allstate Encompass and Esurance all grew net written premium and policies in force in 2013 compared with 2012 and we achieved all 5 of the 2013 operating priorities.
Starting in the lower left for the Allstate brand that of course serves customers who prefer local advice assistance and want a branded experience our policies grew in 2013 by 0.4% from the prior year and Allstate brand auto policies in force increased 1.5% versus year ago and 0.6% versus the last quarter which reflects both improved retention and continued stronger business growth.
This growth is a result of one the retention but also we've expanded the Allstate Agency -- exclusive Agency distribution.
We have effective marketing and less restrictive risk targets.
We made substantial progress in improving returns in homeowners.
As a result the decline in homeowners policies was down to 2.2% from year-end 2012 and flat versus the third quarter.
The continued rollout of our house and home product across the country will support our future multi-policy household focus.
Overall Allstate brand profitability improved in 2013 with a combined ratio of 89.9 and an underlying combined ratio of 85.8 due to auto profitability good underlying homeowner margins and lower catastrophe losses.
Esurance brand which serves the self-directed brand-sensitive customer is in the lower right generated significant premium and policy growth in 2013.
Premiums written increased by 27.9% and policies in force increased by 26.7% compared to 2012.
The combined ratio finished 2013 at 117.5 reflected continued high levels of marketing spend you'll remember and that's where we expense all of our advertising right up front in investments in expanding both geographically and from a product perspective; continued expensing of acquisition intangibles; and the impact of higher loss ratios on new business.
Esurance continues to adjust its pricing and underwriting to ensure the growth we're experiencing generates long-term profitability.
These actions caused growth to decelerate a little bit in the third and fourth quarters and we expect growth to decline somewhat in 2014.
The Encompass brand in the upper left quadrant serves customers through independent agents that provide a choice of brands.
Our unique package policy represents about 80% of Encompass' total premium.
This brand also grew with policies up 6.5% compared to 2012.
The combined ratio for 2013 was 95.9 an improvement of 10.5 points from the prior year which was driven by a significant decrease in catastrophes and improved underlying performance in the homeowners line.
The auto insurance margins in this brand still need to be approved.
Now let's move to Slide 4.
We have a great year.
Now it's time to move forward.
2013's operating priorities are compared to the 5 operating priorities for 2014.
The highlight -- the evolution we're going through which is from focusing on strengthening the core business to positioning for sustainable growth.
The operating priority in 2014 on growth is in units rather than premium as the importance of market share growth is now greater than raising average prices on homeowners insurance.
Secondly we want to maintain the underlying combined ratio in 2014.
This combines the second and third priorities from 2013 and reflects the significant improvements made in the underlying margin in homeowners.
Proactively managing investment risk and return remains a priority although the focus will shift.
Now that the interest rate risk has been lowered in the Property-Liability portfolio the investment focus will shift from public fixed income corporate securities to other high-yielding assets typically in the private market where returns are not as linked to overall market performance.
The 2014 priority to modernize the operating model is a broader and more sustainable approach to the 2013 priority of reducing the cost structure.
We'll continue to take a broad look at improving the way we do business which means -- and that's of course starting with the customer so we're pursuing continuous improvement simplifying our processes and streamlining our technology to deliver faster better and more cost-efficient service.
This will lead to improved customer satisfaction and fund further investments in growing our business.
To continue increasing shareholder value focus is being increased in building long-term growth platforms so we'll continue to look at ways to become an even more integral part of our customers' lives.
The evolution of course is a connected customer and telematics and there's a number of structural and technological changes that offer good growth opportunities for us.
Finally in keeping with our practice to provide you an outlook for our Property-Liability underlying combined ratio for the next year that's 2014 we set a range of 87 to 89 which is 1 point lower than last year's range.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Tom.
I'll start by reviewing the 2013 financial highlights on Slide 5.
Starting at the top Property-Liability had earned premium of $27.6 billion in 2013 which grew 3.3% from 2012 and a recorded combined ratio of 92.
The underlying combined ratio for the year was 87.3 essentially flat to prior year and better than our full year outlook range.
Catastrophe losses were $1.25 billion $1.1 billion below 2012 and our lowest year of catastrophe losses since 2006.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment grew 3.7% from the prior year reflecting very strong limited partnership performance.
As a result operating income was $2.47 billion for the year 35% higher than 2012.
The combined ratios on a recorded underlying basis for each brand are shown on the right-hand side.
As discussed by Tom the Allstate brand continued to generate solid profitability as the positive efforts -- effects of rate changes and low catastrophe losses more than offset modest inflationary increase in loss costs.
The Encompass recorded combined ratio also improved from 2012 due to lower catastrophes and improved homeowners margins.
The Esurance combined ratio of 117.5 for 2013 improved 2.4 points from the prior year.
However it remained elevated as Tom noted earlier.
Allstate Financial on the bottom left had a 5% increase in premiums and contract charges in 2013 reflecting a 5.5% increase in underwritten products including a 10% increase at Allstate Benefits.
Operating income of $588 million was an 11.2% improvement over 2012 due primarily to an increase in investment margin lower expenses profitable growth at Allstate Benefits partially offset by a reduction in spread-based business and the lower benefit spread in our car and [ph] life insurance.
Net income of $95 million for 2013 was significantly lower than 2012 due to the loss on the pending sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
On Slide 6 we show net written premium and policies in force in total and by brand.
The red line shows that total policies in force began growing in the second quarter of 2013.
For Protection in total in the upper left chart overall policies grew 1.5% from last year and 0.5% from the third quarter.
Each brand achieved growth in both net written premium and policies in the fourth quarter and the full year.
Moving to the upper right chart Allstate brand policies ended the year 0.4% higher than both 2012 and the preceding quarter.
The Allstate brand grew net written premium 3% in 2013 driven by higher average premiums and favorable trends in both retention and new business.
Allstate brand auto net written premium increased 2.2% from prior year while policies rose 1.5% from 2012.
Allstate brand homeowners net written premium grew 3.8% compared to the 2012 while the unit volume decline continued to slow with fourth quarter 2013 homeowners policies flat to third quarter 2013.
On the bottom 2 charts you can see growth trends for Encompass and Esurance although remember the absolute dollars scales are much smaller than the top 2 graphs.
Both brands grew net written premium and policies compared to 2012.
Moving to Slide 7.
The chart on the left-hand side show the earned premium and underlying loss trends for Allstate brand auto and home while the charts on the right show the combined ratio trends.
We have continued to maintain overall margins in the Allstate brand.
With Allstate brand auto you can see that earned premium and losses which are some of them volatile tend to move in tandem over time as we closely manage rates to keep pace with loss development.
In the last 3 quarters losses per policy have increased faster than earned premiums leading to a slight deterioration in margin.
Essentially after experiencing very favorable loss results at the end of 2012 in the first quarter of 2013 moderate increase in loss cost has exceeded the increase in the earned rates.
Despite these increases the underlying combined ratio for auto is still within targeted range and generates extremely attractive returns on capital.
For Allstate brand homeowners shown on the bottom half of the slide underwriting loss cost per policy is slightly higher in 2013 than 2012 while earned premium per policy continues to rise.
This improved the underlying combined ratio by 2.4 points for 2013 to 62.7.
The recorded underlying -- the recorded combined ratio for the year was 77.9 7.1 points better than the prior year reflecting the improved underlying margin and lower catastrophes.
The combined ratio trends are shown in the lower right-hand chart.
You can see our underlying 12-month average continues to decline but at a slower rate as we approach price adequacy.
Our 2013 investment results depicted on Slide 8 reflect actions we have taken to reduce interest rate risk in the Property-Liability portfolio maintain alignment with Allstate Financial's changing liability profile and actively managing our equity investments.
As shown in the graph on the top of the slide investment income before expenses was $1.08 billion in the fourth quarter and the total portfolio yield was 4.8%.
Investment income for the quarter was higher than the first 3 quarters of 2013 but was slightly below the fourth quarter of 2012.
We reported lower income from the interest-bearing portfolio due to lower investment yields and a smaller asset base driven by the decline in Allstate Financial's spread-based liabilities.
The equity portfolio continued to benefit from strong limited partnership earnings which increased by $92 million in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 and partially offset the income decline in the interest-bearing portfolio.
The equity component of our portfolio continues to grow.
We expect to earn attractive but more variable returns over time in this component.
Moving to the total portfolio return in the bottom left our total return for the fourth quarter was 1.1%.
Net investment income was a primary driver.
Total return for the year was 1.8% as higher equity valuations were offset by lower fixed income valuations as treasury rates rose during the year.
The level of unrealized gains in the portfolio fell from $5.5 billion at year-end 2012 to $2.7 billion at year-end 2013 as shown in the lower right.
The fixed income valuation decline resulting from the significant increase in treasury rates was the primary driver of the $2.9 billion decline in unrealized gains for the year.
Our rate risk reduction actions position the Property-Liability portfolio to be less sensitive to rising interest rates and pull forward future income through realization of gains and the sale of longer-term securities but lowers future operating income.
Slide 9 depicts the trends in the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios each of which comprise of approximately half of the total portfolio.
For Property-Liability on the top left there's a declining earned yield trend on our interest-bearing portfolio as seen by the gray line reflecting the interest rate risk reduction activity during the year and reinvestment in lower-yielding shorter-duration bonds.
The impact of our actions is further illustrated in a scheduled maturity graph at the upper right where the 2 declining red bars at the longer maturities show that only 10% of our portfolio is due after 7 years versus 32% by the end of last year.
While we continue to evaluate our overall investment and portfolio risk exposure we currently intend to maintain the shorter maturity profile on our Property-Liability portfolio.
At the bottom of the page you can see that Allstate Financial's net investment income has been more stable.
Over the past few years Allstate Financial's investment cash flows have been used largely to fund liability outflows so the portfolio yield has not been impacted significantly by the low yields in new investments.
Future investment income will decline as liability outflows outpace new business and the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life is completed.
The last column in the table provides a pro forma view of investment results exclusive of LBL actual results.
The interest-bearing portfolio yield remains essentially unchanged but investment income is $112 million lower excluding the LBL-related assets.
The chart on the bottom right shows the ongoing decline in the Allstate Financial portfolio as we continue to reduce spread-based liabilities.
Slide 10 shows the progress we have made in improving operating income return on equity from an inadequate return of 8.6% in 2010.
We communicated in 2011 our focus on 5 key drivers to increase operating income return on equity to 13% by year-end 2014 as shown on top of the page.
The underlying homeowners combined ratio which represent over 2/3 of the expected improvement opportunity has improved steadily from 72.9 in 2010 to 62.7 for 2013 and 60.7 for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Auto profitability has remained stable at a combined ratio of roughly 95% continuing to generate very attractive returns.
When we established our goals in mid-2011 the expectation for the investment portfolio yield and the Allstate Financial ROE was that interest rates would rise over time.
This obviously hasn't materialized as risk durations today are lower than they were in 2011.
We have also proactively reduced rate risk in the Property-Liability portfolio which has been the right economic decision even though it reduces operating income.
We continue on our track record of proactive managing -- management of capital providing strong cash returns to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Since 2011 Allstate Financial has returned over $1 billion in capital.
The 2013 14.5% return on equity reflects favorable catastrophe losses.
However normalizing catastrophe losses and adjusting for nonrecurring charges such as the pension settlement charges discontinued life reserve strengthening and restructuring charges as well as excluding Esurance results since we did not own Esurance at the time we established the goal still leaves an operating income ROE above 13%.
Slide 11 shows our capital position at December 31 compared to last year.
We are in a stronger capital position reflecting excellent earnings the debt refinancing changes in employee benefits and the replacement of higher-cost debt with capital that is longer term and has more flexibility such as perpetual preferred stock.
In the fourth quarter we returned $565 million to shareholders to bring the total to $2.2 billion for the year.
We repurchased 1.8% of our outstanding common stock in the quarter or 8.4 million shares bringing the total repurchase for the year to 7.8%.
As of year-end we had $139 million remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
As you know we typically review our capital plans in the first quarter following completion of our year-end reporting.
We estimate year-end statutory surplus to be a total of $18.2 billion with $15.2 billion estimated for the Property-Liability companies.
During 2013 Allstate Financial companies returned $774 million of capital including $500 million this quarter.
Holding company deployable assets were $2.6 billion at year-end.
If you scan down this slide you can see our strong capital position at the beginning of the year is even stronger today.
Overall in 2013 we made good progress in the execution of our customer-focused strategy and achieved all of our priorities.
We are well positioned to aggressively implement our differentiated strategy while delivering strong returns to our shareholders.
Now let's open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> It seems like you have achieved your homeowners goal in the low 60s.
Where do you stand on your overall homeowners strategy going forward? Bob this is Tom.
I'll make a comment then Matt can talk about what he's doing to turn the line on homeowners.
And I know you've been after us several times wanting to declare a victory at homeowners.
We feel really good about where it is now.
If you look at the underlying combined ratio it's in a good place.
It's taken us 4-plus years to get there and we're now positioned to be able to leverage in this competitive advantage.
Matt can give you some sense of how he's going to do that.
So I've mentioned previously that we kind of have a 4-pronged approach to the way we're looking at the homeowners business and our strategy going forward.
The first was the rate adequacy component which as you and Tom have been talking about and as you've been mentioning on previous calls we have made substantial progress on and we feel really good about our rate adequacy right now although as things develop and change we'll develop and change.
But that's only one component of our strategy.
The second component was to update and upgrade some of our product availability which we did with House &amp; Home which you know we've rolled out to a substantial part of the market.
We launched it in about 27 states so far which is about 3/4 of our new business apps and we'll continue to roll that out into some additional states this year.
The third component of the strategy though was to reassess our probable maximum loss and do what we call PML optimization and figure out if there are ways to use that PML capacity in a more optimized way that enables us to grow households and enables us to get benefits of diversification.
And so we've done a lot of work with our PML we've done a lot of work through reinsurance and we've done a lot of work on a very localized basis to ensure that we're able to take on some additional homeowners capacity without really raising our overall risk load.
But the fourth component of it of the strategy is just general geographic diversification.
We know that the more we're able to grow in certain areas of the heartland where we have non-correlated risk to some of the coastal areas it gives us overall homeowners capacity.
And so there's a lot of work underway to increase that geographic diversification grow in some areas of the country where we have not historically grown and therefore enable us to grow additionally in some of the regions where our capacity is constrained.
And all 4 of those prongs are enabled by our brokerage strategy our Ivantage strategy which allows us not to hurt the customer as we do all those things.
So we always ensure we have a homeowners product offering for our customers and for our agency owners to offer to customers while we're changing things assessing risk adjusting PML.
And so we've done a lot of work with our Ivantage Agency and Northeast Agencies to ensure we have homeowner product availability throughout the country.
Research Division</strong> Thoughtful answer.
Your third prong in an environment where there's less -- where reinsurance costs are going down are you taking the savings to the bottom line or using it to grow? Yes.
Research Division</strong> A little bit of both? I don't mean to be flip.
But first of all reinsurance prices change over time.
It's hard to rely on what the arbitrage may be over the long term and so you have to be thoughtful and I think disciplined in how we choose to use that and how we choose to think about that in either reinvesting it or taking to the bottom line.
So I think we're taking a fairly balanced approach.
We may be reinvesting some of that savings and using some of it to enable us to enter areas where we haven't been able to enter before.
Bob it's Tom.
Remember 2 things as well.
So you don't just take change in reinsurance pricing and pop it into the combined ratio which is we have a stacked program so it rolls out over 3 years.
And we -- reinsurance factors into our pricing so on a long-term basis to the extent reinsurance costs went down we'd be able to offer our customers more value.
We would make that up by growing better but -- so it's not sort of just an expense that comes or goes.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Tom do you guys have an estimate or an idea on what the potential January losses may be for the first quarter? Mike we do not no.
But of course you know we do provide -- we'll do our normal monthly cat estimate which is I'm not sure third week is it? It'll be third week Thursday.
It's the Thursday of the month.
So that'll be coming up.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then one question on -- how much of the increase in the year-over-year expense ratio was due to the incentive comp? On the year-over-year basis I'd say less than 0.5 point in total but incentive comp's like everybody like not just management agency bonuses I mean there's a lot of people who are incented to drive growth and profitability in a company.
There was a little bit of a bump.
It was more than that in the fourth quarter though because we had some catch-up because there was a pretty good strong run for the finish line.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I mean is there any way to control for that piece or -- so we understand? Is there any way to kind of think about what it might have been excluding that piece just to try and think about what the forward might look like? I think the best way to look at the underlying profitability is just to look at the loss ratio piece.
The expense ratio will move around depending how much we're advertising in the quarter and those kinds of things.
We do expect the expense ratio to come down over time though.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then so I mean clearly taking rate in homeowners seems to be slowing.
I don't know if that's the right interpretation.
Do you expect to see -- do you think you can continue to see the trend's moving in the right direction as you continue to push for rate and maybe see some margin expansion there? Mike I'm sorry.
This is Matt.
Were you referring just to homeowners there on rates? Research Division</strong> Yes most.
I mean if you can comment on auto as well but I was mostly talking about homeowners yes.
Okay.
Well if you look at Page 17 of the supp you can see that the impact of rate changes on premiums written over the last several quarters broken out by auto and home.
And as I said in my earlier comment to Bob we have neared rate adequacy.
Remember as we roll out House &amp; Home for the vast majority of states that goes in rate adequate right away so that has helped us jump to a rate-adequate position early.
But we're -- we operate on a localized rate-taking basis.
So we watch loss trends as they emerge on a local basis and we react on a local basis.
They -- so looking at it on a system-wide perspective is hard to do and I think a little misleading.
When we see issues arising in a loss cost in a region or in a state we react quickly in a region or in a state and we'll take rate as needed.
We've done a lot of work.
We know the importance of customer experience and momentum.
And a lot of work was done over the last several years to factor in customer experience and momentum into the decisions we make about when we take rate how we take rate and how fast we take rate.
And so we'll continue to balance that to optimize the overall return the overall customer experience and our growth capabilities and our ability to retain our existing customers.
Our next question is from John Hall from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Tom yes I was just wondering if you would just talk a little bit about the profit run rate for Esurance sort of the time line? And then whether that's truly a top line phenomenon or whether there's an element of overspending that's going on in Esurance? And then just sort of tail onto that whether you have any success metrics that you could share around your post-Super Bowl insurance ad.
Okay.
I'll answer that and then Don can help me out as well as since he works directly with him.
First impressive report quickly.
I mean fast turnaround.
I was like you must have had that thing all filled out and just dropped the numbers and I have to say I was quite impressed.
The -- but as it relates to Esurance let me go up to the strategy.
Don can get into sort of the runway on the profitability.
But when we bought it we thought we were a better owner because we could do a number of things.
One we could reposition the brand specifically targeted towards that self-directed customer.
We did that.
The first phase of that was to not have it be used -- appeal to both segments which was people when you want them and technology when you don't.
That's obviously trying to appeal to both ends of that spectrum which they needed to do because of their size and we did not.
So we repositioned it really around that self-serve customer and Don can talk about the work they're doing in marketing there.
But that was the first thing; reposition the brand.
Secondly to strengthen the brand by endorsing it with Allstate so in fact we've done that by having it be endorsed but not confusing with the Allstate brand.
We also thought we were better at claims and preferred pricing.
And it was based on those assumptions that we said we could get in and invest more aggressively to drive growth in the business.
So we substantially increased the marketing spend even though that has a negative impact on the overall combined ratio because we can handle it given the size and scope of our company.
And the result of that as you see we have great top line growth over the last couple of years with that business.
Now of course all -- good plans always have something that you got to adjust to.
And so they have -- we -- the loss ratio is a little higher than we would like.
And so Don and Gary Tolman and the team are working to get that and he can give you some insights on both what are we doing with the current marketing program and what are we doing to get loss cost in line.
But I'm okay.
As long as the loss cost is in line I'm okay continuing to invest in growth in the business even if it brings their specific component combined ratio above what we would like on a long-term basis.
John let me maybe just fill in a couple of things on both the profitability trajectory and then the marketing.
I mean as Tom said in the opening comments you have to look at both the GAAP profitability and then what we look at which is economics.
Because we direct -- we expense all the marketing expenses upfront particularly in a business that's growing and Esurance is obviously growing very rapidly the GAAP combined ratio is going to be elevated during the points at which you're growing the way we are.
We would prefer to not just look at GAAP but also look at our economics which is the way we run the business.
So we look at the lifetime combined ratio that the business that they're writing today is generating.
And I'll talk about the loss ratio in a second.
But by and large we're comfortable that the business that Esurance is writing right now is profitable over its lifetime.
You won't see it in the GAAP accounting because it -- because of the expensing of all of the advertising expenses upfront.
On the loss ratio I think Tom's right.
We're all a little disappointed with the loss ratio this year.
We've been on it we understand where it's coming from.
Where we can we've worked with Allstate shared data and make sure that we're on top of it.
I think Gary and his team has done a really nice job of working to make sure that through both pricing which you'll see in the supplement you will see the rates being taken and underwriting actions that that will come back in line.
And we're already beginning to see the loss ratio come back in line.
So I would expect to see improvement in the loss ratio in 2014 compared to where we were in '13.
But I think so long as the business continues to justify the advertising spend you will see an elevated combined ratio on a GAAP basis.
Just one word of caution: you saw in the third and fourth quarter the top line slow down a little bit for Esurance as a result of some of the rates that have already been taken and I expect to see continued pressure in 2014.
The way they're taking rate and moving underwriting 2014 would be difficult to maintain the trajectory on the top line that they had in 2013.
Let me move to marketing for a second.
After we made the acquisition I think Gary and his team did a really nice job of fashioning a new campaign that was designed.
It was called the Insurance for the Modern World campaign.
It was designed to make sure that everybody understood what their customer value proposition was.
So if you go back to our four square that advertising campaign was designed to make sure people understood that Esurance was in the lower right-hand and not competing against Allstate.
That campaign was terrifically productive extremely strong response rates and you can see from what it did on our top line it worked extremely well.
The Esurance ad after the Super Bowl was a little bit of a shift in that instead of telling people we're in the lower right-hand we're now going to telling people how good we are at the lower right-hand.
And that was the way to kick off that shift in the campaign.
We're extremely happy not only with the impressions we got and the -- I mean if you read any of the social media reviews it was extremely effective in generating Twitter activity after the -- not only after Super Bowl but up until last night when the announcement was made in the Jimmy Kimmel show on the winner.
And so I think it's worked extremely well.
And what I like in particular is that the credit the team's getting for the campaign is extremely consistent with what the brand stands for which is clever modern and doing things different than it's been done in the past so feeling very good about the marketing campaign.
We're investing in it.
We'll see how it works but I think we're delighted with the way the -- as the ad and after the Super Bowl worked for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Was there an immediate response in terms of call volume? Yes there were -- well you have to separate that from call volume to quote volume so quote volume was up substantially after the Super Bowl ad.
Call volume was off the charts.
A lot of that was obviously to learn about the contest and so forth.
But the response was really good.
We spent a lot of money.
People should call.
Your next question is from Mike Zaremski from Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> On capital management for 2014 any outlook there? In 2013 you guys if I do the math on share buybacks and the dividend over operating earnings you guys returned in excess.
How should we think about 2014? Mike you should think about it as one of our core values for our investors is generating good cash returns for them.
So we started to talk about cash returns a little differently this quarter.
So we talked about the combination of dividend and share repurchases and what does that look like as a percentage of one's market capitalization.
And the concept behind that is if you owned the entire company at the beginning of the year and you owned the entire company at the end of the year how much cash would you have gotten in between? And sometimes I think the share repurchase numbers get lost in the fact that you could choose to maintain your relative ownership interest as a shareholder by selling pro rata into the share repurchase program getting that cash and that cash looked like about 9% last year and it looked similar to that the prior couple of years.
So that is still our goal.
As Steve said we evaluate that in the first quarter.
We're not prepared to make an announcement on what we're doing in dividends or share repurchases on this call but you shouldn't expect a huge change in our philosophy in terms of driving shareholder return and providing cash to them.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's interesting.
Next and lastly a follow-up to one of the previous questions.
Now if we look at Slide 7 auto loss cost seemed to be exceeding earned premium for the last few quarters.
I mean should we be expecting another tough comp in 1Q given what's been going on in January? And maybe if last year -- if 1Q was a tough comp as well and on cat weather? I don't really want to get into quarterly forecasts on it.
I can tell you that our general philosophy is one mantra [ph] which is manage it locally but also there's the be paranoid about it.
So the reason you maintain good returns is you stay focused on it.
Matt can talk about what they've been doing in the last half of last year to reflect the trends you just mentioned.
Yes thanks Tom.
Yes Mike I'd rather focus on as Tom said how we manage this.
And so when you look at Slide 7 and you look at that chart I'd just remind you that this is a percent year-over-year underlying margin trend.
And so what we just saw is a comparison to what was an extremely favorable fourth quarter 2012.
That notwithstanding we do have some clear pressure emerging.
And you see slight uptick.
We think it's still within our expected norm and our historical norms on the severity side on BI and PD.
But it is just kind of volatility that's normal and somewhat expected.
That being said what we see on a system-wide basis is different than what we see on a localized basis.
So if you go back to Slide -- Page 17 of the supp you'll see the number of states we put rate in during the second half of the year on auto.
It's significantly higher than what we took in the first half of the year.
We saw some trends emerging in some particular states and as such we took necessary rate to ensure we got out in front of those and caught up quickly and minimized any lag between the earned premium and the increase in loss cost.
We also took some underwriting actions and we accelerated some correct class work in the second half of the year that I anticipate will have a positive impact as we begin this year.
Your next question is from Dan Johnson of Citadel.
Wanted to talk about a segment that's actually sizable enough to talk about that's on the other personal lines the underwriting improvement there was I'd say just about as meaningful as it was in the auto business in terms of year-over-year contribution.
What's the outlook for that continuing? And now that Don's not there who's running the business? And I got one other follow-up after that.
Okay Dan.
The -- as you point out yes we are doing better in what we would call consumer household stuff which includes a variety of other Property-Liability products.
The business is -- profitability has improved.
We'd like to see it grow a little faster to be honest.
Its growth was moderate.
And when we look at the potential market share the market share we have in those spaces whether that be motorcycle or RV or boats and we look at our overall market share in auto and home by state we have some room to grow there.
And we'd like -- so we're working on having a more household focus.
Kathy Mabe is the person who runs that part of that business.
She -- oh sorry.
Sorry we moved it over to Matt I'm sorry.
I'm saying Kathy and Matt's saying "Oh no I got that one." Kathy Mabe took over for Don so all the Encompass stuff and all the -- we've rearranged some stuff called business-to-business and I'll come back to that in a second.
So Don left.
Kathy took his role.
We re-shifted that role somewhat.
We have some fairly large set of businesses that are good at business-to-business but they weren't really run together as business-to-business.
So for example we have our worksite business which serves 2.7 million customers through the worksite.
We also have a commercial insurance business small businesses.
There's a bunch of things that are really business-to-business and we felt like we weren't delivering it really seeing a value proposition to those businesses as we could have.
So we put those together and reorientated that right as Don was leaving.
As part of that we took the consumer household business and we moved it into Matt's organization so that it's more integrated on the household focus from both pricing technology standpoint a whole bunch of reasons that'll help it grow faster.
Yes well that was actually my next question as to now that we've got it to very respectable profitability can we grow it? So maybe I just ask it slightly different.
Are we sort of at profitability where we hope to be and then the focus needs to be from growth? Or is there still other things on the profitability front that you think can be done? And that's it.
Dan it's Matt.
So on the profitability side again when you see it it's rolled up to all the lines together.
And we still have some additional work to do on a few of the smaller lines there to ensure that their profitability is sustainable.
Remember some of the profitably improvement we saw in this last quarter was driven primarily by low cats and so we don't want to declare victory too soon there.
The way we're approaching these lines as we move them over from what was emerging businesses into personal lines is I consolidated things with wheels with the auto line into the vehicle line management and I consolidated landlord renters and condo and manufactured homes into our homeowners business.
So they're being managed more holistically by what is now vehicle and home -- or vehicle and property line management.
I expect that over time as we ensure that we have profitability on each of the subcomponents of those CoHo lines that we will consistent with our CVP begin growing the overall portfolio.
Remember our overall approach with the Allstate Agency now is to say yes more often to customers have more products available to serve their customers and enable those agency owners to be more holistic risk advisors to their customers and have a variety of products at their disposal.
As we continue to embed that CVP into the agency system we think that the ability to sell some of the consumer household products will improve.
Our breadth and depth of customer penetration will improve as a result and we will get better at packaging them together porting data between the lines making it more intuitive for a licensed sales professional to switch from a standard auto sale to a renter or a condo sale and port data over.
And so we're excited about the opportunity.
We think the integration into the rest of the personal lines business the auto and home business will be a long-term strategic benefit to us.
Dan this is Tom.
Let me -- I want to add one thing to that because I think you're on an important point from a strategy standpoint.
This is really a shift from a product and items in force strategy to a household strategy focus.
And our metrics don't quite follow it.
We show you items in force by product and that kind of stuff.
But -- and it's really in line with a customer focus.
So some of our competitors only have one line right and we have to compete heads-up with them.
But we're more interested in selling everything we can sell to you.
So if you thought of this as a retail store we don't just want to sell shirts.
We want to sell shirts pants shoes socks whatever you need.
We want to give to you because we think that speaks to that customer segment.
And Matt talked about it there.
We're also doing the same thing in Esurance.
So Esurance we've rolled our renters in 16 states motorcycle in 3 states and homeowners in 1.
So you should expect to see -- we think that gives us a competitive advantage in that space because we'll be able to leverage our relationships and marketing dollars over a broader swath of products and services have greater retention from people because we sell more things.
So it is about shifting to that consumer -- customer focus and this is of course one part of it.
Your next question is from Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to talk briefly -- so we oftentimes don't talk about your agents.
You obviously have a lot of them they're sort of essential to the story but I think they get lost a bit.
3 or 4 years ago you guys made a whole bunch of changes lots of new blood in the organization some consolidations new agency behavior and management strategies and compensation.
You're obviously starting to see some core growth in the channel.
And I'm curious if what you learned from the various initiatives you've pulled and if some of the growth that we're seeing is kind of you guys getting some traction from like for example the new blood and new hires and things like that? And whether -- or whether this is -- or whether the growth is something that's just a bit more cyclical as opposed to structural that we can look at? Well Josh thank you.
As you were talking about [indiscernible] this is my eighth year as CEO.
The last one was a lot more fun than the first 6 and we've made a lot of progress.
I was -- as it relates to our agency owners they're never lost.
They're a key component in that which we do and very vital to us.
As we've talked about before that it -- we did -- when we went through the homeowners refit and we had to refix homeowners lean a little heavier on auto we decided to at the same time go and strengthen the agency distribution force do a whole bunch of things and Matt can talk about what he's doing there.
I would say that I am very proud of the work that our team has done to improve the relationships with them help them be more successful and that is part of what's driving growth.
It isn't just about not selling more homeowners -- or about selling more homeowners and not taking as much rate.
That is of course part of it.
But it's also about getting the system position.
And so we have that kind of period of time for a couple of years where we have to kind of regroup build our foundation and they've taken it to a new level.
So Matt maybe you want to talk about how you feel about agencies what their investing in and how it's driving growth.
Thanks for the question Josh.
I love getting questions about agency owner and distribution.
It's I think one of our core strengths as a company and one of our competitive advantages.
We get a lot of work on reengaging the agency system.
As you mentioned we had a tough transitional period.
We had to do some hard work as a company to change and improve the productivity and efficiency of the agencies.
Some of that involve compensation changes to shift towards more variable compensation to spur and incent growth and give them a reason to take a leap of faith and invest in their agencies even though at that time they were declining in size.
And we had managed through that new compensation program to completely bend the line because they did take that leap of faith.
They invested in their agencies.
They hired licensed sales professionals.
They increased their marketing.
They invested in technology.
They totally reengaged and as a result they are now growing items in force and their agencies are more valuable our system is more valuable and we're thriving together.
That brought together a bunch of work.
It brought together technology work marketing work compensation work workflow reengineering to make the products more intuitive to sell a lot of great product work and that has yielded a couple of tangible results.
So I think on the last call we mentioned that the agency relationships survey which is a survey that measures their level of satisfaction and confidence in the system is at an all-time high.
If you see on Page 11 of the supp and you'll see more detail in the 10-K when it's released we're growing the number of agencies.
And that trend was going down for several years and now it's increasing because we're adding points of distribution and they in fact are adding additional licensed sales professionals.
Our EA retention is significantly higher.
The previous couple of years we experienced retention rates that were at about 80%.
In 2013 our EA retention was 92%.
That means fewer of them are leaving the system there's less disruption to our customers.
It builds on itself.
So all of these things the momentum on the growth side the momentum on new business side and retention along with what I call sustainability metrics which are the number of agencies and the productivity and efficiency in those agencies should all work together to improve the overall growth of the system.
So the short answer to your question is I think it's very structural.
I don't think it's cyclical and I don't think it's a short-term thing.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful Matt.
Just one other sort of question.
Long-term if you guys think about sort of 5 years we're trying to think about what the Allstate of the future looks like homeowners is -- arguably maybe that's cyclical maybe that's structural it's a much more profitable business today and you guys have shrunk your footprint by something approaching gosh maybe 30% in terms of PIF since 2005.
The question is is if you think bullishly how big could you get that business in -- over some extended period of time? And then second Esurance you're still sort of getting your legs and -- but your investments thus far it's been kind of modest in terms of ad spend and obviously that's turning the corner.
If you look forward 5 years how material a part of this business do you think it may be? How material...
Research Division</strong> Would Esurance be as a function of the total Allstate franchise? Well I'd like them all to grow as fast as they could grow so I'd take the same percentage in higher growth in total or I'll take higher percentages on either.
But I think if you want to go really 5 years I would start to think more about just telematics connect to customer the way in which we interact with our customers.
We have a different approach to telematics.
We're still developing it is.
But telematics of course is our Drivewise and DriveSense.
It does one thing which is give better pricing gives you the ability to do better pricing because you have more data about individual customers.
Our offering though also is trying to enhance the customer value proposition.
We haven't sorted out exactly what that means yet.
But if you were to look over 5 years I think you would find that the types of services information and relationship we have with our customers will be stronger and more valuable to them and should enable us to grow.
So I think you're -- really in the next couple of years you should see them to grow in what is economical.
And as we think we have the skills capabilities and performance to grow I don't really want to talk about just homeowners or the other pieces.
Our next question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on the auto the standard auto loss ratio looked like it did tick up a bit on the fourth quarter as you mentioned.
Is some of that just sort of an accident year true-up just looking at the trends developed and you saw it and sort of caught up? And number two you mentioned you're seeing modest pressure and severity.
Also looks like frequency is maybe normalizing.
Could you talk about what you're seeing on the frequency side also? Yes.
So as I said the tick-up that you're referring to we just consider kind of some normal volatility.
There is some embedded pressure on the severity side.
I think frequency is relatively stable and it's performing well within the historical ranges.
So there was a little PD uptick.
But remember that 2012 was actually below the historical range.
So we look at that and there's nothing to be worried about.
We looked at the new to renewal ratios because as we're growing we would expect some pressure on our frequency there.
But actually it hasn't emerged yet.
The faster we grow that becomes somewhat inevitable but we're monitoring it closely and we'll stay out in front of it.
And again on the severity side it's slightly elevated.
You look at the 2-year average growth though on like PD paid severity and it's fairly moderate.
And so I think it's somewhat -- I know what you're trying to do.
Everybody's trying to see whether or not a trend is emerging.
And so you have to look at like the last 2 quarters or year-over-year.
But we have to do that and balance it with what it looks like over a 2-year period understanding that there's some volatility in there.
And again you're seeing it on a systemic basis and we're trying to look at it on a very localized basis.
We're able I think on a very localized basis to distinguish better between what is just normal volatility and what's an emerging trend.
And we jump on anything that looks like it's an emerging trend and we wait out what looks like normal volatility.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one follow-up.
On the overall expense structure I mean the business historically ran closer to 25 and clearly been edging up more in the 26s now.
I mean is the reality -- is it just more of an expensive business today than it was 5 10 years ago? Adam it's changed.
I would say that you're right and you're absolutely correct in the percentages but there's more money being spent today in marketing than there has been in the past.
We are spending less money in certain categories.
And in many categories we cut cost to invest in other things.
So if I look at total technology spend we're spending a lot more money in technology and simplifying cutting expense out which should lead to both improved customer experience and lower cost in the future.
So it bounces around.
We're always about though trying to reduce cost.
This is a relatively thin margin business.
It's low involvement business from a customer standpoint so they don't like to pay for something if they don't have to.
So we try to look at everything and say "Will our customers pay for it?" So I think in terms of -- we don't have like a magic goal.
I think the answer is how do you deliver the most value to customers and split your money up? So if we have to spend 0.5 point in expenses and we think that it gives us ability to charge another percent in average price we'll do that because -- and so we're not going to manage just the expense ratio as a way to grow the business.
It's all about what the customer wants.
But it shifts around a little bit.
A lot more money in marketing these days.
And then the mix changes with Esurance in there and you got to kind of break it out between Esurance -- really the 4 segments should stand on their own as it relates to expenses because that's what you're paying to deliver the service to that specific customer.
Our next question is from Brian Meredith of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wondered could you give us an update on Drivewise and how that's doing? And any plans for '14 to push that product maybe more ad spend or something? Yes I will Brian.
And Matt I think this is the last call.
I didn't realize we're having some -- getting good questions and we went a little over time so I apologize to those of you who have other things to do.
So yes we have 2 offerings in the marketplace; Drivewise and DriveSense.
First is the Allstate brand; the second is the Esurance brand.
In the Allstate brand we're over 300 000 units on the street today and we stay connected in our offering versus some other offerings where they take it back.
Not everybody does.
But there are 3 components to that which we're trying to do.
One is better pricing.
It's every bit as powerful I believe as credit was when we got started.
Second it will be about enhancing the customer value proposition.
And third is how do we use that data to help our customers do even more and pay less? So there's 3 components to it.
We're -- we are -- we have what we call V 1.0 out in the marketplace today which is the product I just mentioned that's in the cars.
We are working on some other alternatives this year that we'll be investing a substantial amount of money in this year to test and decide how we want to take and grow that property.
We call those affectionately 2.0 3.0.
And so we have a group of -- a team that's working on innovating there.
We're connected with all the OEs on -- in terms of what they do.
I think we'll probably end up with a different strategy for the OE market than the aftermarket.
And of course the aftermarket is where most of our customers are.
So that will start to roll out and we'll talk about it as we go through the year.
But it is important to us and we're spending lots of money on it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one other just quick one.
Can you talk about what potential impact the ACA may have on your supplemental health business as we kind of look forward here and voluntary products going to those exchanges? It's a relatively small impact on the business.
There are some product things we have to change but it won't -- it's not a meaningful item for us in that business or obviously for the whole company.
So thank you all.
Last year you saw us.
We began to shift from improving returns to accelerating our strategy which is of course to grow by providing differentiated value propositions to the 4 customer segments.
We really are now positioned for growth.
We've got a good solid strategy.
We've got brands we got the business capabilities we're executing well.
We have the financial resources and as importantly we have a great team between our management team here and our agency owners.
So we are positioned to both grow and continue to provide cash returns to our shareholders.
Thank you all.
I will talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for todays conference Mr.
Pat Macellaro.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstates first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson and Steve Shebik we will have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday following the close of the market we issued our news release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the first quarter and posted a slide presentation to be viewed in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
We also posted a document describing our current reinsurance program.
These are all available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
As noted on the first slide our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstates operations.
Allstates results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2013 slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and on our website.
We are recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I along with Steve Shebik and our Treasurer Mario Rizzo will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now lets begin with Tom Wilson.
Well good morning.
Thank you for investing your time with us to keep updated on Allstates progress.
Before we begin Id like to say a few words about Bob Block who most of you passed away a couple of weeks ago after a battle with cancer.
Bob led our Investor Relations efforts for 17 years and was a member of the Allstate family for 39 years.
And everything he did he was just a consummate professional.
He was balanced direct thoughtful respectful.
We will miss his expertise and friendship.
Bobs family greatly appreciates all of your messages and prayers as well as the donations many of you made to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network on his behalf.
In the room today with me in addition to Pat and Steve are Matt Winter who leads Allstate Personal Lines; Don Civgin who is responsible for Allstate Financial and Insurance; Kathy Mabe who leads Allstate Business to Business; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
Lets begin with Slide 2.
Allstates first quarter results show the resiliency and strength of our strategic and operating platform.
The strategic decision to create unique customer value propositions for each customer segment in personal lines is providing profitable growth opportunities.
Operationally we are making good progress on all of our 2014 annual operating priorities.
Financial results for the quarter were good despite the severe weather in January and February.
We also completed two strategic initiatives of the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life was closed on April 1.
We also completed the capital restructuring program that we initiated early last year.
So lets go through each of these and then Steve will cover the operating results.
So the visual depiction of our strategy is on Slide 3.
On an overall basis we achieved policy in force growth of 2% when compared to the previous year quarter which resulted in a 5.2% increase in net written premiums.
Overall profitability was good with recorded combined ratio of 94.7 despite severe winter weather and the launch of a new advertising program for Esurance.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 88.4 which is in the range we have provided for the full year.
Growth was achieved in all segments as you can see from the data in each of the brand specific boxes.
If you start in the lower left which is the largest segment in the market and the largest segment for us which is served by Allstate agencies we had continued broad-based unit growth of 2.1% in auto which was offset by a 1.2% decline in homeowners policies given the success of our repositioning of the homeowners line we expect that decline for homeowners to become less of a drag on growth in the future.
The recorded and underlying combined ratios were in line with expectations.
Esurance in the lower right had another quarter of strong growth.
The combined ratio is about where we expected it.
There were a number of offsetting pieces.
First there was a large increase in advertising expense.
There were the benefits of the profit improvement actions we have put in place in 2013 and then the impact of severe winter weather.
The advertising expenses were 28% of premiums in the quarter as we launched new advertising to reinforce the insurance for the modern world positioning.
Encompass in the upper left also continued to grow but at a slower rate than last year.
That reflects the profitability improvement actions we have put in place last year and are still working on this year.
Answer Financial sells non-proprietary policies through the web and call centers in the upper right non-proprietary premium increased 10% over the prior year.
So we like the strategic and operating flexibility that the utilization of these different offerings gives us in the marketplace.
If you go to Slide 4 our five operating priorities are shown on this page.
We just discussed the insurance policies in force growth.
So lets move to maintaining the combined ratio.
The underlying for the combined ratio for the quarter is within our full year outlook.
So its a good start to the year.
This includes of course the impact of severe winter weather.
We have been within or better than our expected annual range every year since we started this practice in 2007.
And investment returns were good in the quarter.
The expected decline in interest income was partially offset by another strong quarter of limited partnership investments.
You will remember we shortened the duration of the property liability portfolio because we did not like the risk and return trade-off of investing in long bonds.
As a result the portfolio yield has decreased versus the last year first quarter.
The priority to modernize the operating platform reflects programs to simplify our technology infrastructure and continuous improvement actions both of which provides greater operating flexibility and improved customer satisfaction levels.
Building growth platforms is another important priority given the operating and financial strength of the current business.
Improving the Allstate agency effectiveness and expanding capacity to growth in that largest customer segment expanding Esurances product offering will allow us to compete more effectively against the large direct carriers to primarily sell auto insurance.
Leveraging the Allstate Benefits platform which were at 10% over last year is another source of profitable growth.
If you move to Slide 5 the financial results generated in the quarter reflect our growth initiatives and proactive approach to managing margins and risk.
Revenues were $8.7 billion or 2.6% higher than 2013.
This reflects 5.2% growth in the Allstate protection net written premium partially offset by lower capital gains in investment income.
Net income of $587 million declined from the prior year quarter primarily due to a decline in operating income and realized capital gains.
Operating income of $588 million was 9.1% lower than in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher catastrophe and non-catastrophe weather related losses.
Operating income per diluted share decreased only 3.7% to $1.30 reflecting the accretive impact of share repurchases on EPS.
Operating income return on equity was 14.4% for the trailing 12 months.
We continue to provide strong cash return to the shareholders this quarter its been our history with $113 million of common stock dividend and $987 million in share repurchases for a total of $1.1 billion.
Steve will now cover the operating results in greater detail.
Thanks Tom.
I will start by reviewing the first quarter financial highlights on Slide 6.
Starting in the upper left property-liability had earned premium of $7.1 billion in the first quarter 4.2% higher in the first quarter of 2013 and a recorded combined ratio of 94.7.
The underlying combined ratio was 88.4 for the quarter which is within our full year outlook range of 87 to 89.
Catastrophe losses were $445 million 24% higher in the first quarter of 2013.
Net investment income for the property-liability segment was down 8.5% in the prior year quarter reflecting interest rate risk reduction actions taken during 2012 and 2013.
As a result property-liability operating income in the first quarter was $468 million 15.8% lower than the first quarter of 2013.
The property-liability combined ratio on a recorded and underlying basis is shown in the chart on the upper right hand side of the slide.
You can see that both the recorded and underlying combined ratios rose in the first quarter.
Severe winter weather as Tom had mentioned impacted the combined ratios of all three brands in the first quarter.
The table below this chart provides a view of the underlying combined ratio by brand for the past five quarters.
We have also broken out the Esurance underlying loss ratio to provide greater visibility excluding investments in advertising and expansion which are immediately expensed.
The Esurance loss ratio remains higher than we would like it to be on a long-term basis so we continued to adjust price  pricing underwriting to ensure long-term profitable growth.
These actions had negative impact on growth which is offset by higher spending on a new advertising campaign to further strengthen the Esurance brand.
The Encompass brands combined ratio for the first quarter was 102.6.
The underlying combined ratio of 91.8% in the first quarter was 6.1 points lower in the first quarter of 2013 and reflects the benefit of ongoing profit improvement actions.
We expect to continue our profit improvement initiatives for both Esurance and Encompass brands.
Allstate Financial on the bottom end of the slide had a 4.8% increase in premiums and contract charges in the first quarter including a 7.8% increase for Allstate Benefits.
Operating income of $189 million was a 31% improvement over the first quarter of 2013 driven by increased investment margin and lower expenses.
Net income of $162 million for the first quarter includes an additional $18 million after tax loss on the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
On Slide 7 we showed net written premium and policies in force by brand.
For Protection in upper left chart the red line shows the continued trend of policy growth that began in the second quarter of 2013.
Overall policies grew 2% from last year and 0.5% during the first quarter from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Each brand achieved growth in the first quarter in both net written premium and policies compared with the prior years quarter.
Moving to the upper right chart Allstate brand policies ended the quarter 1.1% higher than the first quarter of 2013.
Allstate brand grew net written premium 4.3% in the first quarter versus the prior year quarter driven by continued favorable trends in both retention and new business as well as higher average premium.
Allstate brand auto net written premium increased 3.3% from the prior year while policies rose 2.1% from the first quarter of 2013.
Allstate brand homeowners net written premium grew 5.8% but policied in force declined by 1.2% compared with the prior year.
On the bottom two charts you can see growth trends for Encompass and Esurance.
Both brands continued their growth in premium and policies in force compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Esurances rate of growth is slowing due to its increasing size and the pricing and underwriting actions being taken to ensure long-term profitable growth partially offset by the impact of the higher advertising investment.
Keep in mind that the scales on the charts for these businesses are much smaller than the charts at the top of the page.
Moving on to Slide 8 the charts on the left hand side show the earned premium and the underlying loss trends for Allstate Brand auto and home while the charts in the right show the combined ratio trend.
For Allstate Brand auto you can see the impact of non-catastrophe weather in the underlying loss ratio compared with a very favorable first quarter of 2013.
Physical damage frequencies increased during the quarter due to challenging winter driving conditions.
This increase was concentrated in Midwestern and Eastern states and accounts for almost all of the increase of physical damage frequency in the quarter.
Finally injury frequency declined slightly while severity showed only modest growth over prior year.
We continue to take rate increases as needed in the first quarter as shown on the graph on the upper right with average state-specific rate increases of 2.5% in 19 states.
Despite higher underlying losses in the first quarter the underlying combined ratio for auto was still within our expected range.
For Allstate Brand homeowners shown on the bottom half of the slide the first quarter story is similar to auto.
Underlying loss costs per policy plus an increase in non-catastrophe weather-related losses such as frozen pipes ice damage and higher levels of fire losses.
The first quarter increase in homeowners losses was driven by states that experienced lower than average temperatures.
The combined ratio trends for Allstate Brand homeowners are shown on the lower right hand chart.
You can see our underlying 12-month average has essentially flattened out as we approach price adequacy.
The composition of our investment portfolio is presented at the top of Slide 9.
Over time we are shifting toward an asset mix we believe will have higher returns.
We expect to rely less on interest-bearing assets and more in equity and other assets where returns is derived from idiosyncratic operating performance.
Interest income will remain the largest and more stable component to investment results while equity investments will have attractive but more available returns in the time.
The lower left graph shows first quarter investment income before expenses of $999 million and a portfolio yield of 4.5%.
The expected decline in the interest bearing yields 4.1% from 4.3% in the first quarter of 2013 reflects the interest rate reduction in the property liability portfolio and a smaller portfolio due to Allstate financial liability balances.
Strong limited partnership income partially offset lower income from the interest bearing portfolio.
The last column in the table shows investment results for the quarter exclusive of LDL.
The yields are unchanged but investment income was $126 million lower.
Our total portfolio return presented at the bottom right was a strong 2.1% for the first quarter reflecting improved fixed income valuations and positive equity market performance.
You can see however the devaluation impact has been highly variable while the income yields have been relatively stable in the last five quarters.
Finally on Slide 10 we provide a view of our capital position at the end of the first quarter.
During the quarter we completed the capital restructuring plan commenced last year which included tendering for and replacing higher fee from senior debt with a mix of lower cost senior debt hybrids and preferred stock.
The result is a capital structure that is stronger and more efficient along with enhanced financial and strategic flexibility.
On the top left chart we show our capital structure both pre- and post-restructuring where you can see the substantial reduction in senior debt levels and the increase of hybrid debt preferred stock.
A full form review of our capital mix adjusted for the expected pay down of approximately $1 billion of debt during 2014 is also shown on the far left bar.
We finished the first quarter with $22.1 billion in total shareholders equity book value per share of 46.70 increased 3.1% since year end and 7.5% since March 31 of last year.
The statutory surplus of our operating companies continues to reflect the financial strength of our insurance operations while deployable assets at the holding company level increased to $3.4 billion at quarters end.
During the quarter our Board authorized a new $2.5 billion common stock repurchase program increased our common share dividend by 12% which enabled us to return $1.1 billion in cash to common shareholders during the quarter.
After completing our previous $2 billion authorization we began repurchasing common shares under the new program both through open market purchases and the execution of an accelerated share repurchase agreement.
Overall during the first quarter we repurchased 17.8 million common shares for $987 million.
The final number of shares we repurchased under the ASR will be determined when the contract is approved.
In addition we paid 113 million in common stock dividends during the quarter.
Overall in the first quarter we made good progress in the execution of our customer-focused strategy and achieved each of our operating priorities.
Were well-positioned to continue to effectively execute our differentiated strategy while delivering strong returns to shareholders.
Now lets open up the call for your questions.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) And first question is from Bob Glasspiegel of Janney Capital.
Your question please.
Good morning and let me echo your kind memories of Bob Tom hes definitely be missed by all.
Question on Esurance what exactly is the strategy right now? It seems like the increase in advertising would suggest that you think youve got the underwriting fixed within the plan.
Is that a fair read of the scenario? Bob thanks for the comments about Bob.
They make a macro comment about Esurance is to how it fits into our overall portfolio and then Don can talk about the new advertising program.
So first we like having four approaches to the marketplace.
It gives us ability to get very clean customer value propositions for each of those target segments.
For example an Esurance segment is one of the components of the customer value proposition is give me tools to make me smart whereas in the Allstate agency channel it would be my agency  and my agent knows me so we can see the difference that  you can think of that difference as it relates to our operating so we like the ability it gives us to really hone in and get a customer exactly what they want.
It also gives us the ability to compete more effectively against those people who are trying to serve multiple brands and so we use those brands in conjunction to compete on two fronts as suppose to just competing on one front.
We  obviously in all brands they are supposed to make the adequate return on capital and weve talked about Esurance is progress to improve their loss ratio.
Were happy with where the progress theyre making but they are not where they need to be at.
That said that doesnt stop us from wanting to continue to invest and compete aggressively because the returns are still above our cost of capital in that business.
So Don perhaps you want to talk about the new advertising program john youre actually want to talk about the new advertising program and what we have going.
Yes hey Bob first of all let me reiterate I mean our strategy with Esurance is to grow the business as fast as possible while maintaining positive economics over the lifetime of the business were running.
And weve talked about this many times before but thats by definition going to be reflected in a higher GAAP combined ratio which you saw again this quarter.
It was a pretty exciting quarter for Esurance and they built on a number of things that theyve been doing with the customer value proposition by continuing to build their advantage.
So they continue to be the only direct multiline carrier with the addition of motorcycle homeowners.
They continue to build out their features which are making their product differentiated from the competitors and they continue to improve the ease of doing business.
The ad campaign I think we transitioned this past quarter.
In the past we talked about Esurance and what quadrant and what customers they were serving.
This past quarter we spent more effort to make sure people understood just how good we were getting within that quartile and against the competitor.
So you see us  went very aggressively against the fact that we can do quotes on the Esurance website instead of the half minutes and obviously we put a lot of advertising rate behind that you can see in the supplement another 12.8 points in expense.
I say by all measures that campaign has worked quite well.
The Super Bowl campaign we had 3.4 million entrants we had 2.7 billion social impressions.
Unaided awareness and consideration of the brand is up to all-time highs.
The trust level is up.
The quotes are obviously up pretty dramatically in the quarter.
And I think those are good results in particular because weve been taking a lot of pricing action and lot of underwriting action to get the loss ratio back to where we wanted to be and while were not entirely there as Tom said absent the January February whether weve actually seen a nice improvement in the loss ratio during the first quarter.
I would also say that the results for Esurance in the first quarter are particularly good because we know at least through February that the main competitors had substantially increased their spend as well.
So I think we feel good about where the campaign is working it is all predicated our Esurance building a customer value proposition that is differentiated than the competition.
And so I think we will continue to build that out but we still have work to do on the loss ratio and Gary and the team are all over that and we continued to expect  I would continue to expect us to improve the loss ratio throughout this year.
But its going to come at same on pressure on the top line.
Okay.
And the final question is what free cash was generated from your life company is it consistent with what your earlier guidance was going to be? Bob do you mean free cash on the sale of Lincoln Benefit or free cash in total? Yes.
Its consistent with what we have which was $1 billion of freed up capital but we got  as you know we got to move it through the system to get it up to the holding company.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Josh Stirling of Bernstein.
Your question please.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the call.
So I wanted to ask you a question a follow-up on Bobs question on Esurance so just to be clear you guys have doubled your ad spend at least in sort of recent run rate.
I am wondering if thats sort of a sense of how you expect to continue to spend money in Esurance.
And as we think about looking to profitability of the business going forward should we expect you to continue to spend that kind of money should end and as we think about sort of total earnings is this sort of thing that pays off over the next year or two.
Are we going to be lagging sort of the additional ad spend in terms of sort of Esurance driven profitability and Esurance driven underlying growth for some time? Thank you.
Good morning Josh.
Thanks for your question.
Let me split it into a couple of pieces when we launch a new advertising program thats trying to get new features across we invest every year upfront in that than we would on a continuing basis.
So you saw that whether thats you buy a Super Bowl ad which is expensive or you just buy a lot more media in February March.
We dont disclose what our future advertising program will be because that tends to competitive.
But the normal pattern will be you invest heavier upfront and then you come back to something thats more sustainable over time.
So I wouldnt expect to see it at the same  you shouldnt expect to see it at the same level and for the rest of the year as you would here.
But that said we do believe that to the extent we are writing economic business we have the earnings capacity as the total company to continue to grow.
We have brands that we will continue invest to the extent it is economic.
So I would  our commitment is to grow the business in total to balance between the brands that deliver the right strategy and to serve each customer.
How we move that the money around between them as long as we are meeting our overall underlying combined ratio commitment to the street we feel like we  it should use the strategic and operating flexibility to drive what are the ultimate economics for the shareholders which is discounted of cash flow.
Is that helpful? Yes.
Thats helpful Tom.
Thank you.
And if I can ask you just sort of a bigger question and I was sort of looking beyond the numbers to trying to link some of your strategies together you guys have a very broad product set auto home accident house and traditional life and a couple years ago you are talking about sort of cross selling I think we are seeing you started to do that obviously Esurance Encompass has been successful for  with the package for long time and you got sort of the voluntary benefits thing working and in your Allstate brand I am wondering if you can sort of give us the sense of how big a lever this is especially in your more mature channels will you actually be able to get any meaningful sort of cross selling opportunities from selling say voluntary benefits to PNC or term life and things like that to PNC customers? I will make a general comment and Matt can talk about the efforts he has undertaken on what we would call the trusted advisor.
So you are right we do have a broad range of products in the portfolio.
We are thrilled actually you saw that Allstate Benefits has now over $3 million policyholders that sometimes gets lost by people.
Our Good Hands Roadside is well over 1.5 customers.
So we have garnered these  and thats product we launched like three years ago or something.
We garnered these people like with millions and it tends to get lost because they are so large but we do think it is an advantage for us.
We obviously Don mentioned the work that Esurance is doing to leverage the skills and capabilities we have in the company.
We have also created our business-to-business unit under Kathy Mabe were just trying to leverage that broad set of skills and capabilities as it relates to business customers because weve always been highly focused on consumers.
We think we have plenty to offer businesses particularly small businesses and so we have a lot of work going on there.
And then as you point out weve been at in our main channel with Allstate agencies weve been working on having multiline relationships for as long as I been here which is 19 years.
And made some progress but its been one of those areas where we feel like we have much greater potential.
And Matt is hard at work on that trusted advisor piece.
Matt do you want to talk a little about Thanks Tom.
So that the company as Tom has described it several times before is really in an evolutionary status.
So we went through period early on where there was an attempt to create a bundled offering for our customers.
But that was disrupted somewhat by what happened with homeowners for a four to five period as we had to do some risk mitigation there.
When you take homeowners out of the mix it really is problematic to try to create a diverse set of offerings and present a whole bundled offering to your customers.
Now that as you can see homeowners business is back in a fully fledged mode we then able to shift out of what I call the subcontractor auto specialist mode to more of a general contractor trusted advisor mode for our agency owners who are able to position themselves as the personal risk advisors for their customers offering a variety of risk mitigation and protection products including not only auto not only home but life products but retirement products motorcycle renters LPP the full line of personalized products in life and retirement products that an individual customer might need and might come to an Allstate agency owner for.
The trusted advisor model is based upon some work done by David Meister  the Meister model and many of you in consulting and others probably familiar with that model and we begun shifting towards a trust based advisory model here and are building the entire system around including the technology information capabilities for the agency owners.
The processes were doing a fair amount of continuous improvement re-engineering work to change some of the work flows.
Were doing some work that we call unbundling the value chain to make sure that our agency owners are spending their time and energy and the staff is spending their time and energy and think that truly add value to the customers.
When you take all of that and combine it the impact should be and were seeing very encouraging early signs of it that they are shifting to more bundled offerings.
They are approaching their clients their customers in a more holistic manner and when we look at our new homeowners business our homeowners new business right now that 80% of that is bundled with auto 40% already have an existing auto policy and our purchasing homeowners on top of that and 40% added a new auto policy at the same time as they purchased the homeowners policy.
Thats combined with what are exceptionally strong growth trends in our consumer household lines now shows us that our agency owners are now living into that new model.
Life and retirement is going to be more difficult voluntary benefits I could along with that just because its a different type of business from many of them for their longer term agents its something they are not that familiar with for many years.
They were used to passing on those leads to others and involving our financial specialists from a distance in that opportunity and now were asking them to work with their financial specialist in the more integrated manner.
So I think it holds and Tom thinks it holds great promise for us as a company.
I think its core to our differentiated value proposition for the Allstate agency owners.
And I think you should expect to see it receive the increasing degree of emphasis and importance over the next several years.
Thanks Matt Tom.
I appreciate the thorough answer.
Good luck.
Thank you.
I am very excited about what Matt has got going there.
Beside as Matt pointed out the alignment with customers we are building stronger local businesses  those agencies which are worth billions of dollars.
One of Matts jobs is also to make those agencies worth more and to the extent they have a stronger relationship with customers it makes them more valuable.
I am very excited about what it does for them and for us.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Your question please.
Thank you.
First for the impact of non-cat weather on the underlying combined ratio in the quarter what was that versus a year ago? Jay- Matt do you want to I think maybe just talk about winter weather frequency.
You are talking about frequencies is that right Jay.
Yes.
I mean I am sure there is a good portion of winter weather thats not included in the cat impacts I am just trying to get a better sense of the baseline on the underlying excluding the impact of non-cat weather? No its really a good question and as you know we manage our business with great precision.
Matt can deal with that Yes.
So Jay its interesting it was intuitive to all of us that winter weather is going to have an impact on first quarter.
But we wanted to really spend some time looking at it in a granular  at a granular level to ensure that we werent just kind of discounting the rise in frequency as the result of winter weather when we werent absolutely 100% sure that was the causing factor.
So we did some a fairly intense work on a state-by-state basis.
So let me give you some facts because I think rather than just conclusions the facts should be helpful.
And I will do it on auto and I will do with then on a home for you.
So when you look at physical damage frequency for total auto it was  the increase was driven entirely by states that experienced increased snowfall or dramatically lower temperatures that caused icing so let me give you a breakdown there.
We had 25 states and we do this comparison by month by state comparing this years snowfall and temperature with last years snowfall and temperature looking for statistically significant deviations and what the impact was on frequency.
We had 25 states that had increased snowfall and elevated frequency and those 25 states represented about 55% of our premium (indiscernible).
The first quarter PD frequency in those states was 7% above the three year average.
If you look at the 10 states with the largest increase in snowfall that account for 25% of the total they contributed over 50% of the unfavorable variance in frequency.
So thats just on the snowfall side.
Now look at the temperature side which as I said caused unexpected icing there we had 32 states with colder temperatures that includes 24 of the 25 snowfall states.
For some reason Wyoming was an outlier there that represented 60% of premium in it.
And there too we had a 7% rise in three year  above our three year average for PD frequency.
And if you look at those 10 states with the largest decrease in temperature they contributed over 75% of the unfavorable variance in frequency.
So clearly the frequency actually improved in the rest of the country that wasnt impacted by statistically significant increased snowfall or dramatically lower temperatures.
We did the same thing on the homeowner side and remember homeowners we basically experienced three major winter impacts frozen pipes in the Eastern half of the company  country fire losses from heating sources in the South especially in Georgia and Texas and ice damming from temperature fluctuations in the Midwest.
And the non-cat examples of those  the space heaters the fire the ice damming many of the frozen pipe claims would not come as cats they would show up in underlying due to reporting delays its hard to attach them to one particular stronger event and as you know house fires arent cats either.
So you look at the impact there 30 states with colder temperature and higher loss ratios representing 70% of the premium NF that was a 16 percentage point loss ratio increase including cash.
So fairly significant one other little factoid for you we had more freeze claims in January alone than the previous 24 months combined which is a fairly significant occurrence and the biggest one was the January 2nd freeze event in the Midwest and Northeast down to Georgia so again if you take out those areas impacted by the lower temperatures that cause the house fires the frozen pipes and the ice damming the loss ratio absolutely improved in the rest of the country.
Did I answer your question Jay? Yes just back on the original point what was the  can you quantify the impact of non-cat weather in that underlying combined ratio of 88.4? Matt gave you the impact on our frequency.
We havent taken it so close to say its X point of the combined ratio.
I would say when you go above all that if you look at our auto combined ratio its 93 to 94 depending on which one that you want to use whether its underlying reported.
And so we covered at that way or if you look at homeowners what weve done with homeowners is combined ratio was 87.25 basis.
So while its clearly  and you would expect it to bounce around so we dont want to  weather happens every quarter sometimes it happens in January and February and its cold sometimes its fog sometimes its other things so we dont want to act like you should ignore the impact of weather.
We still are responsible for an overall combined ratio but that gave you was the information to help you see that.
We dont think the bump in the underlying combined ratio up is a sustainable bump to the general trends around the country which are not weather related.
But I dont want you also just taken out and say that next quarter that were not going to have weather because well have weather every quarter is that make sense.
I understand.
Absolutely and then just a quick follow-up on Esurance it looks like the company is looking to raise rates to address the loss ratio issue.
But at the same time ad spend is also going up so how do you clarify those two countervailing issues? How about we want it all? We want to grow and we want to make money.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Im looking at Don as I say that.
Our next question is from John Hall of Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
Good morning everyone.
My first question has to do with Allstate Financial.
During the quarter there was a quite significant drop in the expenses over there.
I was just wondering if you could comment on sort of the profit profile of Allstate Financial going forward ex-LVL and whether that drop in expenses is a permanent stair step down.
Okay Don will take that.
Yes let me first address the LVL question its  we had about $34 million of operating income in the quarter that was related to LVL and so obviously going forward that business is no longer part of Allstate.
As it relates to expenses given that we reduced the size of our business pretty substantially you should expect that expenses will come down.
Weve been hard at work during the last six or nine months of expenses.
A lot of it is driven by the headcount.
The fact is were running the smaller business were running a simpler business.
Matt and Tom talked earlier about advancing the Allstate customer value proposition with the Trusted Advisor and Allstate Financial over the last 10 years or so has been in a lot of distribution channels that takes a lot of resources a lot of efforts.
With the conclusion of the LVL transaction we are now committed 100% to the Allstate customer.
Theres only one channel.
Were all in on the Trusted Advisor Model.
So were changing our expense structure and our organization around to simplify it quite honestly make the adjustments we need to because we simply cant spend the way we did two or three years ago and weve been successful in that.
Weve also had benefits from lower pension expense from what we did last year and some shared services expenses and so forth as well.
It isnt all just what weve done.
But yes were committed to getting the expenses down so we can maintain our profitability.
John there is a paragraph in the queue that does a good job of breaking out the three components of that which  when you get a chance we can direct it to you.
Great thank you.
And then just following up on the homeowners if I look at the ads that you guys have been running fire kitchen  kitchen fire and return of Mayhem as a cleaning person it seems that youre actually targeting homeowners rather directly.
Should we be expecting homeowners to go from a negative PIF to a positive PIF over the near term? I would agree with everything you said other than perhaps near term.
Were obviously working and Matts teams hard work as we talked about and Trusted Advisor is driving that.
Weve not yet called when we think that negative will become positive but obviously with what weve done with the homeowners business we like to turn it into a growth initiative as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Vinay Misquith of Evercore.
Your question please.
Hi good morning.
The first question is really on the loss trends versus the earned premiums.
In the last four quarters the loss trends seemed to be up around 1.9% to 2.4% on the Allstate brand auto.
And the earned premiums I believe are up around 0.7%.
So  now you guys are taking pricing up (2.4%) now so that should be a positive for the future.
Just curious as to whether we should expect pressure on margins at least in the near term while the earned premiums catch up with the loss trends? Vinay this is Tom Ill ask Matt to deal with both where he feels they are in pricing and loss cost trends in auto in general.
We do read all of your  everybody stuff and earlier this morning were trying to figure out to you 19.
So we couldnt so well get back to you on the specific on the 19 after the call.
But Matt can talk in general about both where he feels the business and what he is doing to make sure we keep in line with our second priority which is to maintain underlying combined ratios.
Good morning Vinay.
Were overall feeling very good about where we stand in auto in the underlying and our margin and our capabilities for continued growth and maintenance of good profitability.
As Ive talked about on previous calls we really run the auto business by geography not solely as one large system and its managed on a real-time basis by quite confident teams at the market operating committee level who are aware of whats going on in each geography watching trends emerge looking at regulatory issues watching demographics and other factors and making calls on a day-to-day basis to ensure were staying ahead of those trends to the extent we can and that were maintaining the margins.
And as I said before we breakdown our combined ratio and our loss ratio in what I would call almost agonizing detail.
We know whats happening there.
Were not surprised by any and we feel confident that were approaching it in a rational way.
Were as Ive said also previously trying to optimize the point between growth and profitability to ensure were able to continue the kind of growth that weve been experiencing recently.
We just had in terms of new business production one of the best total auto quarters since 2001.
We like that.
Retention is up significantly and it has been up for a steady period of time now and we like that.
And were balancing our desire to grow capture market share and retain profitability and ensure we meet all the commitments weve made regarding underlying combined ratio.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
The second question was on the net investment income on the P&amp;C portfolio and Im looking at it ex-prepays and litigation.
And we actually saw per stabilization in the  some interest-earning securities there and a stabilization in the yield.
Are you doing something now more positive in a sense that changing the asset mix there where well see a stable yield and should we and is your move away from longer duration to shorter duration securities or instead well see more stable net investment income from the earn-out? Judy will answer that question and let me make sure I get the math right.
So the stabilization are you talking about the earned deals fourth quarter of 2013 to first quarter of 2014 or.
Yes.
Stabilization okay because it is down about 20 basis points versus a year ago.
Yes yes.
So there is stabilization and as Tom mentioned over the past year we have moved  shortened the duration in the portfolio.
And that work is largely done.
So when you look at the portfolio at this point weve got a duration a little bit under three years and you plan to stay there for the time-being.
So it isnt necessarily a change in the mix its more that weve done the work that we wanted to do.
Were going to continue to see the impact of the work that we did last year in terms of year-over-year but quarter-over-quarter it has largely stabilized where we are today.
And the portfolio yield is down so the differential between where were investing today in the portfolio yields isnt as great as it would have been a few years ago.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Nannizzi of Goldman Sachs.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Tom I wanted to ask you a little bit about the other personal lines business I mean its come up a little bit more recently in some of the calls.
A couple billion dollar book I mean it looks like now three quarters of double-digit growth margins are in mid-to-high 80s on an underlying basis.
Want to just get a little bit better understanding of whats in there.
I mean I guess specifically it looks like the growth is coming from Dealer Services and Roadside.
What are the margins in those businesses specifically and are those higher  if you can tell us higher-margin business than the rest of the stuff thats in there? Thanks.
Okay.
Ill make some general comments and then Kathy you can talk specifically about what were doing in Roadside and Dealer Services.
But first when you go all the way up in other personal lines theres lots of other stuff in there.
So there is a number of consumer household products where that be personal umbrella policies many of the policies Matt talked about that fit inside of that organization and are fully integrated with the way we do with our agencies just like auto home and everything else.
In those businesses Matt mentioned are also growing well.
So renters and some other things were having a good year there.
In addition to that as you pointed out we have a number of other really strong and significant businesses that oftentimes dont get the attention that auto and home do.
So one of those would be Roadside the other would be Dealer Services.
Roadside we have really three parts to that business.
There is our standard our auto  our Motor Club policies we sell for fee then we have our Good Hands Roadside where its paid when you use it thats why I mentioned we have over 1.5 customers.
And then there is our wholesale business.
Kathy if you can talk about that business is growing quite rapidly in that third piece if she can talk about what she is doing there and what we need to do to  in terms of profitability there.
And then Dealer Services sales extended warranties and things through dealers.
Thats also a pretty large business.
Thats a longer tail business.
So the profitability as you have to  turns in over time if she could talk about what we have going there as well.
Thank you and thank you Michael.
With regard to Roadside Tom talked about the different components.
Inside that in terms of its profitability the business is growing rapidly.
The wholesale business is less profitable than what we call the retail business or the Allstate segment of the business.
So in the short term were focused on slowing the growth a little bit in the wholesale side while we focus on increasing the profitability of that segment.
Where at the same time were doing picking steps to aggressively grow the Allstate branded part of Roadside which is highly attractive and were doing that Matt talked about the Trusted Advisor thats a component of key steps we want to sell through the Allstate agency distribution force.
With regard to Dealer Services there are a number of things going on there.
It is a rapidly growing business most of the growth is coming from the vehicle service contract portion of the business.
We feel the  that its adequately priced although were taking steps to make sure that were getting the profit margin that we need on that business and working aggressively to pursue that.
We love some of the synergies that we see in Dealer Services with regard to the property casualty business as well and some of the other businesses in B2B.
And I guess the question is I mean youve seen them really I mean just looking at your supplement I mean those two have seen the lions share of growth in other personal lines over the last at least quarter over the last year.
And over that  over the past couple of years the underlyings have come down and really kind of settled into that 80s low 90s sort of range.
Im just wondering like are the areas that are growing are those just more profitable than the others or is there something else thats happening at the same time that these two areas are growing thats caused that profitability to kind of settle in? Thanks.
I think where Kathy was is the wholesale business it grew quite rapidly we picked up GM which was the giant account and actually that business is not as profitable of the other businesses they actually reduced our overall profitability.
And in the Dealer Services business we like to profiting we think its got good pricing and its growth is profitable.
I think Michael there maybe some other pieces in there in terms of what were doing in renters and personal umbrella policies.
So I would say let us help you well dissect that for you because I think youre looking at a broader combined ratio measure than just the businesses that were talking about.
Got it.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joshua Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
I apologize I have between Jay and John.
My questions were answered.
Okay.
Its easy.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Meyer Shields of KBW.
Your question please.
Thanks.
One nitpicky question.
The corporate expenses went down  were flat year-over-year but were down significantly from the fourth quarter.
Is the first quarter number a good run rate going forward? Youre talking about the corporate expense line weve broken out.
So there is  you have  yes interest expenses down some and then there are some shared service cost that rattled through their pension and other things that are down.
In terms of the number we mentioned we took a big shot because we restructured the pension plans added to the balance sheet and as a result in terms of  we took the liability down and reduced our expenses by well over $100 million a year.
So part of that rattles through but a large part of that also as Don mentioned gets allocated back out to him so which is a good thing so  because it gets reflected in the profitability of our businesses.
So but there is no big trends going on in corporate I guess  Id say once you get through the capital restructuring plan and you got to look at the preferred dividends relative to interest expense because that shows up in a different line item.
So Okay no thats helpful.
Bigger picture I guess is there a time frame for expanding the target focus of the Encompass to maybe attack a more broad segment of the independent agency customer base? Our current strategy with Encompass is to continue to rollout and expand the package policy because we think we have room geographically to do that and room within some of the agencies to do it that we exist to do business with.
And why were doing that were still working to improve profitability in some of the space.
So weve actually shrunk Meyer the  what we would call the segment business which is the standalone auto policy over the last four five years.
Over time I believe youre right that we know how to price auto we ought to be back and expanding that business but right now its not on our list of priorities.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Well take one last question.
Our final question is from Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning.
The BI severity was pretty low.
Its been trending down.
Is that more Allstate specific actions or is that some market phenomena? Its hard to answer what the market phenomena is but Matt might want to talk some about the actual results we have.
Yes.
I think well thats an interesting question to try to break it down from the entire market.
We have  as I said before weve taken a fair amount of effort to look at this on a state-by-state basis and manage it as well as we could.
We  there is always geographic mix issues and policy limit shifts and other things that impact that.
And I guess I would say I dont believe that weve done anything dramatic recently to indicate a trend line that you should read into this.
So remember part of the trend is Florida.
We have some profit issues in Florida and New York they tend to be BI space.
So its (definitely)  you really got to look at it by state.
And I would say if you go all the way up and its were  to the extent our BI cost severities go up frequency goes up in BI or same with PD frequency or severity will reflect that in our pricing and all of it is manageable if you look at our average pricing and were feeling pretty good about it.
Okay thanks a lot.
Very helpful.
Thank you all for participating in our strategy.
It gives us the flexibility as you can see theyre operating in a variety of different customer segments and were going to stay highly focused on our 2014 priorities.
And the success weve had maybe proactive from an operating and strategic standpoint over the last four years.
It put us in a position to just begin to build on a great franchise.
Thank you all.
Well see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Pat Macellaro Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson and Steve Shebik we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday following the close of the market we issued our news release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the second quarter posted a slide presentation to be viewed in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
We also posted an update to the description of our reinsurance program.
These are all available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
As noted on the first slide our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2013 our 10-Q for the second quarter slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures which there are reconciliations in our news release and on our website.
We're recording the call today and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I along with Steve Shebik will be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
And now let's begin with Tom Wilson.
Well good morning and thank you for investing your time to keep updated on Allstate's progress.
In addition to Pat and Steve with us today in the room is the team that delivered these results.
Matt Winter who leads Allstate personal lines; Don Civgin who's responsible for Allstate Financial and Insurance; Kathy Mabe who leads Business to Business; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
Let's begin on Slide 2.
Allstate's second quarter results demonstrated our ability to concurrently grow the business and generate attractive returns.
Our strategy to create unique customer value propositions for each consumer segment is working and has helped us compete in new and different ways.
So in the last 12 months we've added almost 750 000 Property-Liability policies in force.
In addition we added another 900 000 relationships through our Good Hands Roadside in Allstate Benefits offerings.
Positive growth momentum is building particularly in the Allstate brand.
Secondly we made good progress on all of our 2014 operating priorities.
Third we recorded very good financial results.
Net income was $614 million for the quarter which you can see in that bottom table which was higher than last year since there was a loss on the extinguishment of high-cost debt in the 2013 results.
Operating income was $1.01 per share excellent results in light of incurring $936 million of catastrophe losses.
Strong underlying profitability lower expenses and good investment results all contributed to the positive operating result.
The decline in operating earnings versus the prior year was due to higher catastrophe losses.
Lastly we improved our financial strength while returning capital to shareholders.
The 18-month $2.5 billion share repurchase program approved in February is now 40% complete after 4 months.
Open-market purchases were made throughout the quarter to accelerate the stock repurchase program and the company share repurchases which were alongside that program.
I think when you look at the supplemental number of people that didn't understand the fact that the company's repurchases are in addition to the open-market purchases made under the ASR.
Overall we're executing well and we're poised to grow with attractive returns and further leverage our capabilities to create shareholder value.
We go to Slide 3 this visually combines our strategy and our current operating results for each customer segment.
So overall the 750 000 increase in Property-Liability policies represents a unit growth rate of 2.2%.
Increased average premiums for our Allstate Protection net written premium growth to 5.5% over the prior year.
The reported combined ratio of 97.4% reflects 13 points of catastrophe losses.
Therefore the underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 84.7%.
Let's walk through each of the customer segments starting with the Allstate brand which represents 91% of written premiums.
As you can see in the lower left quadrant Auto policy growth increased again this quarter and was 2.3%.
Working across the growth line the decline in homeowners continues to shrink and was now down to 0.5% this quarter.
Other personal lines are growing bringing total policy in the fourth -- force growth in this segment to 1.5% and net written premium growth to 5%.
We're also pleased with the profitability in this segment with a recorded combined ratio of 95.4% which you can see in the third line on the far right there.
If you go back to the left the Auto reported combined ratio was also 95.4% which results from a disciplined and precise set of operating processes focused on matching price to risk and costs.
We continue to have modest increases in Auto prices which were up 0.5% this quarter excluding Canada.
A few analyst called about the investor supplement which shows no increase in total because it impacts a large mandatory reduction in Ontario auto pricing.
Another measure of Auto pricing discipline is average gross written premium which is 2.6% higher than a year ago.
Moving to the next column.
The reported homeowners combined ratio was 98.6% despite almost 39 points of catastrophe losses.
An underlying combined ratio of 60.2 for this product gives us confidence that we can create shareholder value and improve our competitive position by growing this line.
Esurance in the lower right had another quarter of strong growth with policies in force of 17.5% although this is lower than last year as expected.
The combined ratio of this brand reflects the immediate expensing of acquisition costs has improved from last year due to profit-improvement actions taken to ensure we get acceptable economic returns.
Encompass in the upper left also continued to grow policies but at a slower rate than last year also as expected.
With an underlying combined ratio of 94.8% there's still more work to be done to raise returns.
Answer Financial sells nonproprietary policies that's in the upper right through the Web and call centers.
Nonproprietary premium increased 12.6% over the prior year.
Our 5 operating priorities are shown on Slide 4.
So we just covered the second quarter results on growth and profitability so I'll give you a chance to just read the bullet points then I'll move on to the next 3 priorities.
Investment returns were favorable in the quarter as higher limited partnership income more than offset the expected decline in interest income.
You will remember the risk and return trade out we made in shortening the duration of the Property-Liability portfolio which resulted in capital gains but lowered investment income by over $100 million annually.
Our efforts to modernize the operating model showed up in lower operating expenses at Allstate Financial reflecting actions taken because of the sale of Lincoln Benefit.
The benefit plan changes made in 2013 also led to lower expenses.
Long-term growth efforts include expanding our Allstate agency capacity in underserved markets.
Allstate agencies are also investing in growth alongside the company and collectively we're working to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of this powerful local model.
Esurance continue to expand its business and it offers auto insurance in 43 states; renters insurance in 18 states; motorcycle insurance in 9 states; and homeowners insurance in 7 states as of the end of the quarter and we continue to expand that product portfolio throughout the year.
The breadth of this set of underwritten products is designed to give us a competitive advantage by better serving customers and lowering acquisition costs in comparison to other direct writers.
We're also investing aggressively in telematics and are achieving rapid growth in utilization of the Allstate-branded Drivewise and Esurance DriveSense offerings.
We're testing additional features which extend the benefits of being connected beyond more accurate pricing.
In summary halfway through the year we've made very good progress on our 2014 priorities.
Steve will now cover the operating results in greater detail.
Thanks Tom.
I'll begin by reviewing the second quarter financial highlights on Slide 5.
Beginning with the upper left Property-Liability earned premium of $7.2 billion in the second quarter was 5% higher than the second quarter of 2013.
Recorded combined ratio of 97.4% increased 1.3 points versus the comparable 2013 quarter driven by $936 million in catastrophe losses which were 45% higher than the prior year.
The underlying combined ratio was an 84.7% for the second quarter and 86.6% year-to-date which is below our full year outlook range of 87% to 89%.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment increased 2.3% from the prior year quarter driven primarily by limited partnership income.
Property-Liability operating income in the second quarter was $364 million 15.9% lower than the second quarter of 2013.
The Property-Liability combined ratio on a recorded underlying basis is shown in the chart on the upper right-hand side of this slide.
You can see that while the recorded combined ratio rose in the second quarter due to catastrophe losses the underlying combined ratio was very favorable as we did not experience a repeat of the adverse weather encountered in the first quarter.
A tail below this chart provides a view of the underlying combined ratio of trends by brand for the past 6 quarters.
We have also broken out Esurance underlying loss ratio to remove the impact of investments in advertising and expansion which are immediately expensed and provide greater transparency to our ongoing profit-improvement actions.
As Tom mentioned earlier you can see the Esurance loss ratio starting to benefit from the actions that we've taken to date.
Allstate Financial on the bottom half of the slide had a 10.5% decrease in premiums and contract charges in the second quarter resulting from the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Operating income of $165 million was a 5.1% improvement over the second quarter of 2013 driven by higher investment and benefit spreads and lower operating expenses.
Net income of $145 million for the second quarter includes an additional $13 million after-tax loss on the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Excluding LBL's second quarter 2013 results operating income increased by 31% and net income declined by 10.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
Our second quarter 2014 10-Q and investor supplement both contained estimated historical results for Lincoln Benefit Life provided with further contexts.
Allstate Financial is now a smaller but more focused company but still capable of producing meaningful operating income.
On Slide 6 we showed net written premium and policies in force growth rates for Allstate Protection and by brand.
For Allstate Protection in the upper left chart the red line shows the continued trend of policy growth that began in the second quarter of 2013.
Policies have grown by 735 000 or 2.2% from last year's second quarter and 407 000 or 1.2% from yearend 2013.
Each brand where we accept underwriting risk achieved growth in the second quarter in both written premium and policies compared with the prior year quarter.
Moving over to the upper right chart.
Allstate Brand policies ended the quarter 1.5% higher than the second quarter of 2013 growing 463 000 policies.
The Allstate Brand grew net written premium 5% in the second quarter versus the prior year quarter driven by continued variable trends in new business retention and higher average premium.
Allstate Brand Auto net written premium increased 4.9% from the prior year while policies rose 450 000 or 2.3% from the second quarter of 2013.
Allstate Brand homeowners net written premium grew 4.3% while the rate of decline in policies in force slowed to 0.5% or 28 000 policies compared with the prior year quarter.
On the bottom 2 charts you can see the growth trends for Encompass and Esurance.
Encompass policy in force growth continues to slow reflecting actions taken to ensure acceptable long-term returns.
Net written premium growth of 8.3% in the second quarter compared to the second quarter 2013 reflects higher average premiums due to rate increases that are earning in over time.
Esurance's rate of premium and policy growth continues to slow due to its increasing size as well as the ongoing pricing and underwriting actions underway to ensure long-term profitability.
Total Esurance premium has grown over 65% and policies in force over 80% since its acquisition in October of 2011.
Slide 7 highlights Allstate Brand auto and homeowners underlying margin trends.
The charts on the left side show Allstate Brand auto and home combined ratio trends while the charts on the right show quarterly change in earned premium and underwriting loss trends.
As you can see while there's volatility in the trends in the charts on the right longer-term underlying combined ratio results on the left have been fairly stable and demonstrate the success we experience with maintaining auto margins while improving homeowners.
For Allstate Brand Auto in the upper right-hand chart we expect frequency results that performed within historical ranges in the second quarter as the adverse impact of severe winter weather in the first quarter was not repeated.
Severity results showed only modest increase over the prior year resulting in a decline in the average underlying loss in the second quarter of 1% compared with the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to earn previously approved Auto rate increases as average earned premium increased 1.6% in the second quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
For Allstate Brand homeowners in the lower right-hand chart we also experienced more favorable underlying losses in the second quarter compared with the first quarter.
Average earned premium continues to increase although at a slowing rate as we approach rate adequacy in total.
We continue to take rate increases as needed in both lines to keep pace with loss trends and maintain our underlying combined ratio.
On Slide 8 in the top left graph you see the composition of the investment portfolio and the impact of the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life which reduced the size of the portfolio by $12 million.
Over time we are shifting the portfolio composition to an asset mix we believe will have higher returns relying less on interest-bearing assets and more on equity and other assets where return is derived from idiosyncratic operating performance.
Our total portfolio return presented in the top right was a strong 2.2% in the second quarter reflecting increased fixed income valuations and positive equity market performance.
You can see however the devaluation impact is highly variable while the income yield has been relatively constant over the last 5 quarters.
Our second quarter investment income before expenses was $932 million with a total portfolio yield of 4.7%.
The lower half of the slide provides the investment income in yield for the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios each of which now comprise approximately 50% of the portfolio.
For the Property-Liability portfolio in the lower left graph the interest-bearing yield has stabilized after the 2013 rate risk reduction actions Tom mentioned while the total yield illustrates the variability in income then a result of equity investments including our limited partnership investments.
The Allstate Financial Portfolio in the lower right graph trends more consistently.
However you can see the decline in our second quarter income driven by the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Our capital position is strong.
Turning to Slide 9.
On the left side you can see the change in the composition of our capital structure over time from senior debt to hybrid debt and preferred stock.
A pro forma view of our capital mix adjusted for the expected repayment of $650 million of senior debt in August is also shown on the far left bar.
We took advantage of favorable market conditions in the second quarter issued additional $250 million of noncumulative actual preferred stock providing further financial and strategic flexibility.
During the quarter we repurchased 142 million of common shares through open-market purchases and paid $125 million in common stock dividends for a total cash return to common shareholders of $267 million bringing total common shareholder cash returns to $1 370 000 000 year-to-date.
We completed the accelerated share repurchase program announced in March on June 29 with receipt of 1.77 million in additional shares.
Book value per common share was a record $47.97 increasing 5.9% since yearend and 15.2% since June 30th of last year.
Our estimated statutory surplus at June 30 is $18 billion.
Allstate Life distributed $700 million in a return of capital to its parent the Allstate Esurance company during the quarter.
Our operating income return on equity was a strong 13.7% in the second quarter on a trailing 12-month basis but lowered in the full year 2013 return of 14.5% reflecting the impact of higher catastrophe losses in the first half of this year along with higher equity.
The increased equity is a result of our 2013 benefit and planned assumption changes.
As you can see in the table in the upper right average trailering equity is essentially flat from yearend 2013 to June 30.
The impact of the benefit changes were entered into the calculation in the third quarter.
Overall we continue to make good progress on the execution of our customer-focused strategy and our operating priorities in the second quarter.
Now let's open the call up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The underlying P&amp;C combined ratio of 84.7% if my data is right that's the best of any quarter in the past 6 years.
So first it's a great result.
Second just wanted to see if there was any lack of knockout weather or other factors that would cause that to be lower than you might think on a go-forward basis? Jay make sure I get the second part of that question so the question was whether weather had an impact on growth? Research Division</strong> No.
I'm sorry.
The underlying combined ratio of knockout weather or any other factors.
Yes.
First thank you.
We feel like we've made a lot of progress.
Matt can talk about the underlying combined ratio.
Jay there was nothing out of the ordinary this quarter from an underlying standpoint.
As you know we just had -- we had a lot of rate earning in we had a fairly careful management of claims continuing and we had an underwriting expense ratio that was down.
And as a result all of the discipline that's been put into the business over the past many years is just starting to show through.
Frequency improved trends were broad-based paid severity was pretty much in line on the BI side.
On the PD actually we had some claims that shifted over from first quarter to second quarter because of such a high claim volume in the first quarter.
So some third-party subro demands came in in the second quarter.
And so that just changed quarter-over-quarter a little bit on the PD side.
But overall there was nothing extraordinary there nothing out of the ordinary.
And we think it's just a continuation of the hard work that's been put into the business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then the pace of share buybacks slowed pretty meaningfully in 2Q relative to 1Q.
And as you mentioned in the prepared remarks the accelerated share repurchase program probably had a fair amount to do with that.
But I'm just trying to get a better sense of what a normalized buyback pace might be on a go-forward perspective.
So as I said we completed our accelerated share buyback program we started in March.
I think Tom noted instead of June 29 it was actually July 29 that we completed it.
When we got into a program like that effectively we give the buyback program for that piece to another party in this case it was Barclays.
So they buy over a period of time in this case 4 months.
So we buy alongside them but we effectively get a fair amount of the shares from the money we provide to Barclays upfront.
So we recorded all that in the first quarter.
So we had such a strong buyback number in the first quarter.
In the second quarter is really open-market purchases alongside the program and that program has now ended this week and we are back in the market ourselves buying.
So if you think we are -- it was announced within the $2.5 billion buyback over 18 months essentially you do some division it's about $150 million a month is kind of the ongoing rate we go and there are times when we accelerate that generally earlier in the program.
Over the summer we generally go a little bit slower than $150 million.
Now we do have a strong capital position clearly.
So we have probably more flexibility than we've had in prior years when during the hurricane season probably July to September we'd slow down our program.
Jay let me build on Steve's answer there.
So we're 40% of the way done in 20% at the time.
So there should be no confusion as to our commitment to do this aggressively.
I think what you do see is the way the numbers get accounted that makes it look like we're not active in the market.
We're active in the market and we're aggressively buying back as much as we think is prudent given the flow.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I want to pyramid into your bullet point on modernizing operating structure in Allstate Financial just to get a sense of where the cost structure is on a go-forward basis.
You have a program that reduce expenses you're absorbing a little bit more of corporate overhead without Lincoln in the mix.
When are you sort of at your right run rate of expenses and how much lower can it go from the current rate? Bob let me make a comment about general corporate expenses.
And then Don can address Allstate Financial.
So we've always been about reducing expenses whether that be the benefit plan changes we talked about last year which reduced expenses and you see ran through the P&amp;L or just our normal continuous improvement simplification.
The benefit we now have is by growing revenues you'll see more of that flow through the bottom line.
So in the past when revenues and PIF counts were going down it's hard to get ahead of that in terms of your expense ratio.
So what you should begin to see is our growth rate a little more incremental margin for us.
And Don can talk specifically about Allstate Financial because he's doing a great job of getting ahead of the downsides in there.
All right.
Thanks Tom.
So the strategy for Allstate Financial has been the same for a number of years that's been to simplify our focus so that we're all about the Allstate customer and the Allstate Agency.
The Lincoln benefit transaction obviously was an important step in that because it not only reduced the size of the balance sheet allowed us to free up some capital for the parent company but also then allowed us to focus all of our efforts on 1 distribution channel which is the Allstate channel.
There has been a lot of hard work and thanks for noticing it that has taken place to try and get our cost structure down because we're a smaller company.
I think we've made good progress you see it in the numbers.
At the same time we're taking cost down we're simplifying what we do so that we can be more effective it's serving the Allstate customers and the Allstate agencies.
We're not through the transition yet with Lincoln Benefit Life.
We still have a good year or so of work to do to get that behind us.
But I expect to see us continue to work hard to manage our expenses so that we can continue to deliver really strong operating results.
And Bob I'd just add 1 other point as part of corporate overhead I prefer to call it corporate value add.
Research Division</strong> Tom you sort of anticipated my follow-up and gave a partial answer to the question I was going to ask which is on the PC side you see it in the solid expense ratio improvements.
Going forward are we likely to see any underwriting improvement more likely to come from the expense ratio than a loss ratio given that you're saying you're trying to move rates up in line with loss cost growth? I'll let Matt answer it for ff course our biggest business which is the Allstate agency piece.
I would just point out as it relates to Esurance the expense ratio is dependent on how aggressively we want to grow the business and how much advertising we're doing.
Bob it's Matt.
Thanks for your question.
We're looking -- we try to manage both components.
I wouldn't say that we're trying to use 1 lever over the other lever.
I think we have to be conscious of and monitor and manage both the loss cause and the expense side of the house.
As Tom mentioned now that we're in growth mode it gives us the flexibility of making some investments for the long term.
It gives us the ability to leverage our scale and efficiency.
It gives us the ability to do some things some of the work we're doing now in continuous improvement to really go through some of our processes really make sure they're as efficient effective and customer-focused as possible.
That will help us leverage our scale and size that will help us be more efficient.
And so my expectation and the team's expectation is that we will be diligent on both components of the combined ratio and not look to just use 1 lever versus the other.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So listen I wanted to switch gears a bit and talk a bit about growth.
You guys have come out of a number of years of sort of stabilizing the business and shrinking volumes in some of your lines you've been growing for the past year.
Longer term really interested in what you guys can do to get more leverage out of your -- the other core Allstate Agency platform.
It sounds from what your presentation this morning that it sounds like you're starting to add agents again.
Kind of curious if that's new headcount in agencies is it new principals? And also you've done a lot I think to sort of reposition the organization to focus more on cross-selling and trying to leverage benefits package and things like that.
I'm wondering if you can give us a sense of sort of broadly what you're doing? And then for big picture whether these are the sorts of things that can kind of help you maintain share whether there's -- whether any of them are sort of material to allow them -- you to actually begin to grow unit volumes say in excess of household formations or something like that? Let me start with the last part and Matt can give you the specifics on the Allstate Agency piece.
So our overall plan to increase share of the business is really focused on having unique customer value propositions for each segment.
And so Matt has a unique customer value proposition that for those people who want local advice and a branded product he can talk about the things he's doing to make that resonate which includes many of the things you mentioned.
At the same time we look at both share of revenue and policies as well as share of profits.
So as you know the overall industry return in the property casualty business broadly defined including commercial and personal lines is about 7%.
We'd like to continue to maintain our attractive returns and have a greater share of that than we do the top line we believe we can grow both with our differentiated proposition and Matt will talk about specifically what he's doing.
And he is -- that business is building momentum I feel good -- the flywheel is turning on that one.
Josh thanks for your question.
As you noted there's been a fairly strong emphasis on getting the Allstate agency force growing again and getting the entire Allstate brand business growing again.
So we look at it in a couple of different categories and we refer to capacity building capability building and activity creation.
And so on the capacity building we are in fact increasing points of presence points of distribution presence both EAs and license sales professionals.
So we do have a fairly significant and aggressive campaign to grow the Allstate agency force but it is not just putting on numbers it's putting on quality agencies in strategically deployed areas where we're under-penetrated and we believe that there's extra market potential.
And we will continue to do that fairly aggressively because it's working for us we're doing that in areas where we have not historically been able to penetrate.
And we're using new and fairly creative methods of doing that including the Allstate Auto dealer program where we place Allstate agencies in car dealerships which in the heartland especially is enabling us to service a very wide geographic area in a very efficient way.
We're also using what was formerly the Allstate direct group in a support mode for the Allstate agencies we call it the extra hands.
And so we are deploying that large call center force to create additional capacity for the agencies both after hours weekends and in additionally for overflow when they're capacity-constrained during the day.
So in the capacity creation lots of things going on that we think create long-term sustainable growth capacity.
On the capabilities side Tom has mentioned I think on several calls our push to create an advisory capability within the Allstate agency and grow that.
So we refer to it as trusted advisor.
It's our initiative to focus the Allstate agency force on more advisory and service functions and less transactional functions where we believe their differentiation stands through to the customer base where we think that they provide extra value where we de-commoditize Esurance and do not accept the fact that auto or homeowner insurance is merely a pricing play.
That's truly just a commodity.
We don't believe that and so we're expending a lot of energy and effort building the advisory capability within our Allstate agency force from a technology perspective from a service perspective information perspective process and marketing perspective you'll see a lot of our recent marketing and our agent recruiting materials are very focused on the trusted advisor piece.
And on the activity side we spent a lot of energy and effort improving our close rates improving quote activity improving retention through customer-focused experience work and other things to improve our relationships with our customers and retain them for a longer period of time.
So on the activity side we think we've been quite successful with our broadening the target with our quote generation.
And you'll see -- you have seen how that's flowed through in the Auto results.
On the home side as Tom mentioned the deceleration in the decline in homeowners is just accelerating.
So we are flattening out and positioning to grow there as well.
And as Tom mentioned many times our goal there has been to grow in a very disciplined manner so that the volatility of that line is still acceptable for our shareholders our customers and for the corporation.
And we think we've been pretty successful on that.
If you just look at the last 8 quarters we've had 8 consecutive quarters with a recorded combined ratio under 100.
And during that time we had $2.1 billion of underwriting income at a combined ratio of 83.1% despite $2.5 billion in tax.
That's a pretty significant event that's a fairly significant accomplishment.
And that has given us the confidence to begin growing the homeowners line again in a thoughtful and disciplined manner.
And when we look at that and we look at the underlying combined ratio during that same 8 quarter periods was 63.2%.
And as we've said multiple times our goal is to deliver low 60s combined ratio in the homeowners business and we did that in a period that included Superstorm Sandy and some of the worst winter weather we've seen in quite a while.
So the last part of your question which was the ability to cross-sell we -- you've seen an uptick in our other personal lines business.
You saw that in 2013 that that line was declining.
In 2014 we began growing again in that.
Most of that growth is driven by renters and condo which we think are very important to creating long-term relationships with our customers and enabling cross-sell of other products including auto.
It probably would have been faster had it not been for the decline in the involuntary auto piece of that line.
And as you know the involuntary auto is what we get depending upon whether other auto carriers specifically in New York and New Jersey accept higher-risk customers.
And lately they've accepted more customers.
We've had less involuntary auto and so that has slowed down the growth in other personal lines.
But overall we feel quite good about our ability to serve all the needs of our customers.
We have stopped really referring to it as cross-sell and refer to it as providing household solutions to meet the needs of our customers.
So we're not so interested in trying to acquire a customer and then push another product on them but to acquire a customer and meet all of their needs and the needs of their households with our full product portfolio.
So we feel quite good about our positioning for growth and our ability to sustain that growth over the long term.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Matt that's really pretty comprehensive.
I guess maybe sort of a high-level question for Tom.
You've increasingly given more visibility in your communications to all of us talking about telematics and you mentioned the strategic investments here today.
I'm wondering if you can give us some color on how you guys thinking about sort of your go-to-market strategy is evolving in Esurance and Allstate? And big picture is this something that's going to be a growth engine for you guys? Or is it more an opportunity to increase your connectivity with customers and something we should basically look for as a benefit to say retention for example? It's a good question.
I would say that the connected car space is developing rapidly.
We're right in the middle of it and it's hard to determine exactly where it will come out.
But I can give you the 3 components that we're working on.
So first and most importantly being able to be connected with our customers helps us get more accurate pricing on their behalf.
And as we've talked about in the past we're making estimates as to what an individual customer should have.
We've been very good at that and that's given us a competitive advantage.
You can see that in the homeowner results that Matt was talking about.
Knowing how a specific person drives gives us the ability to do an even better job and we can provide them a 10% to 30% discount if in fact they connect with us.
And it's every bit as powerful as credit so we're actively and aggressively working to expand that portion of our business.
Secondly we're working to improve the driving experience.
So we have a number of features that we're developing which improves somebody's driving experience which takes their relationship with us essentially beyond auto insurance.
We don't know where that will exactly come out yet we're investing aggressively.
And to Bob Glasspiegel's point and what Matt said was look we invest where we want to invest and we cut cost where we think it's not really adding customer value.
In that component of our telematics offering we're investing aggressively in trying to decide what are the number of alternatives.
We've launched some new features last quarter on teen driving and we'll continue to roll out new features to better the driving experience.
The last component of our offering is how do we best utilize and monetize some of the data that will be created from that connection on behalf of our customers.
And we're collecting billions of miles of traffic data and all kinds of other data how cars work what they work what they're like in different weather condition.
And that is the most nascent of our efforts.
It's not an area where we have a traditional source of expertise in monetizing data.
I was very good in using data.
And we make a lot of money by monetizing on behalf of our shareholders how we help other people use that data and how we capture that revenue source on behalf of the company is yet to be determined.
So it is both more accurate pricing better experience which lead in part to retention.
But we also think mainly to other revenue streams and then just solely new revenue streams.
So it's really all 3 of those components.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess 1 question I had sort of bigger picture I mean the homeowners trending well underlyings are good PIF trends moving in the right direction auto underlying was nice and it doesn't like -- or from your comments it doesn't sounds like it was a one-off.
Other personal lines growing looks like low 80s underlying there.
And then Esurance is improving.
So I'm just trying -- I guess I'm trying to understand your 87 to 89 combined as a target it would seem that we're on a glide path to come in below that unless I'm missing something.
Can you comment on how we should think about that? Sure Michael.
First we of course as you point out we give an operating range of a couple of points for the year at the beginning of the year because we want you all to have some confidence that this is where we think the business will come out.
And this year we picked 87 to 89 which was a point lower than the range we had last year which was reflective of our team -- here is confidence in the -- in all the metrics you just talked about.
So for the first 6 months I would point out you're right we're slightly below that in terms of the underlying combined ratio over towards the lower end.
But as you also know frequency can bounce around a good point in any period of time.
So we don't feel any need to change that range.
We don't do it to try to help people get -- do operating EPS calculation.
We do it to give you a sense to how good we feel about the business.
We still feel good about the business.
We think 87 to 89 generates really attractive returns and we can grow in that range.
So we don't have any plans to change it at this point.
What I would take the opportunity to do is sales message we saw all the things you talked about that means evaluation should be a much higher multiple of both.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's fair.
I guess the other question I have was just so would you guys calculate an industry loss estimate for 2Q just across the country? Because it looks like you guys are at about 900 just over that.
I mean I look at some industry loss estimates it did show that 2Q was a relatively light quarter.
Can you try to help -- I was trying to square that is it where you're located or maybe just a conservative view of where losses may end up? I'm just trying to...
Are you talking about auto and home? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I mean you're not -- looking at some cat losses for the second quarter 930.
It looks like industry loss estimates are somewhere in the $6 billion to $7 billion range and that's commercial personal across-the-board and domestically.
So I mean just trying to square that versus your sort of market share.
Yes I think I would make 2 comments.
One it's a little early to figure out where exactly the industry is because people are just reporting now and it takes us a while to get the information.
Secondly we do obviously look externally at how our results compare to everybody else.
But we break it down.
We look in total but we're really more concerned about what happens locally.
So this is a local business.
We underwrite price do our agencies everything is local.
And so we would really look and say well how are we doing it in Colorado relative to other people in Colorado on all fronts.
That would be not just in catastrophes it would be BI it would be physical damage.
And we have a number of tools we use to do that.
Obviously starting with pricing but going all the way through to claims or some industry databases we use on claims.
And I think the summary I would say of all that is the machine that we have in place which is a set of business processes disciplines rewards recognition analytics they help us maintain our profitability.
And the zones we talked about is working we think it's working well.
We see Matt's team is adjusting where they need to adjust and that has obviously been through for a long time on auto insurance.
You're now seeing that same discipline and set of practices being applied to the homeowner's business.
And so we feel good about where we're at relative to the industry.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just really quickly Esurance as your actions continue I mean it looks like you took mid single-digit rate PIF is still in that high teens.
What do you expect or what are you hoping to kind of get that to or when were you hoping to get that to sort of underlying profitability or at least getting that loss back down as close to 0 as possible? I'll let Don talk about the specifics that they're doing at Esurance.
I would tell you though from a capital allocation standpoint the conversations that Steve and I and Don and I have about that business are it should grow as fast as they can assuming we are earning above our cost of capital on the business that we write.
If we're not getting the right return on it then we're not interested in growing.
The returns on the business we write are well above our cost of capital slightly below what we would make in a large existing business like Allstate which has a huge legacy book associated with generating a lot of profitability.
But it's got to be profitable what we do.
I mean there's a -- little I can add to that.
I mean the reality our goal is to run Esurance in a way where we're economically profitable.
What you're looking at is the GAAP profitability which of course is impacted by the fact that we're expensing the advertising upfront and there's also a couple of points of investment in other products and expansion that doesn't necessarily pay off in the quarter as well.
I'm really pleased that the work that Gary and his team have done over the last year or so the loss ratio is beginning to pay off.
We're beginning to see it in the numbers with the loss ratio coming down again.
So I feel good about where they are.
We'd just like to see them continue to grow.
And I don't think we want to put an artificial target of a GAAP combined ratio because I think that will stifle the growth that we're seeing at economic terms right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just first question is on the loss cost trend.
If you would look at your Slide 7 it looks like both from auto and homeowner the underlying loss trend have been ticking down from recent adequate levels.
So could you give a little bit more color on that? And how do you think about sort of in general the economy the inflation and as the economy recovering? Yes Kai it's Matt.
Well I'm looking at that I looked at those same 2 charts on 7 and I look at it as kind of reverting more towards the norm.
I don't see it as that much of a directional change.
I think we had an aberration on the auto side for a couple of quarters.
It looks like it's stabilized where it should be and where it has been historically and the same on homeowners.
So we feel very good about the underlying margin trends in both of those businesses.
As we've been saying historically we manage this very disciplined.
We keep on top of loss cost and we keep on top of expense cost and we manage it on a micro basis for the benefit of the overall system.
So we manage those in each geography and each micro-geography and the result of that is a systemic result that looks the way you see on these charts with positive long-term trends.
From the overall economy if you look at our current severity we haven't seen that much of an impact from the inflationary trends.
Obviously there's some.
But really it's been relatively mild and relatively benign.
Most of the severity fluctuations that we've seen have been the result of age of closures geographic mix policy limit shifts and things like I discussed earlier about just backlog of third-party subro demands and things like that.
So so far the trends have been relatively benign.
That being said it's 1 of the reasons that we have to stay on top of taking rate it's 1 of the reasons we thought it's so important to point out that we have continued to take rate on the Auto side even though it was masked a little bit by the Ontario rate decrease.
We believe it's essential that we take rate as needed on a moderate basis consistently across the business.
It's less disruptive to customers it's less disruptive to the agency force it improves retention and it allows us to stay ahead of any inflationary trends that might occur.
Let me provide a point of clarification on these 2 charts on Page 7 as well.
Obviously 2 drivers of profitability are price and loss cost and we've shown them to you because we think they're relevant.
Unfortunately I think sometimes it shifts the focus to just price as a tool to manage profitability.
And let me expound on what Matt just said and give you the example of homeowners.
So risk selection product design claims performances are all equally important to profitability.
So if you look at homeowners over the last 5 years and you look at our cumulative price increases relative to our competitors you're not really that much different at the end of this 5-year period.
That said we took a whole bunch of other actions which give us the confidence that what we've done has made it sustainable.
So for example we used to have it as peak 7.8 million policies we now have a little over 6 million.
That's 1.8 million down.
We're down 1.2 million just since 2009.
What we do is went through re-underwrote the book decided that those risker underpriced pieces of business we were no longer going to insure.
We moved those to somebody else.
We Improved.
Matt's got a whole new set of inspection processes going on in terms of the way we look at new business.
We obviously use sophisticated technology in claims.
And then they've redesigned the product in House &amp; Home.
I think you're in what percentage of the country it is? We're in about...
31 states and it's a growing percentage of the book of business.
It's about 12% of our overall book 85% of our new business writings.
So all of that stuff is underneath that story.
So when we're -- I would encourage you to think about it we have to look at these charts and show you price but price is not the only tool we have to manage profitability.
Matt was talking about that system.
It has all of those tools available to it.
And the strength of our execution is in being able to have a leadership that knows how to manage that well.
Research Division</strong> That's very comprehensive.
Second question is on Encompass.
It looks like that's the only segment you have year-over-year deterioration in terms of underlying combined ratio.
I see that you're taking pricing action as evidenced in the PIF growth slowing down.
Could you talk a little bit more about the competition in the independent agency channel? In Encompass we're focused as you know on the mass affluent and so we compete day-to-day with Met Hanover Chubb AIG and Crestbrook.
Right now we see that it's competitive certainly but it's not irrational from a pricing perspective.
We're still seeing really solid growth on our package policy we had 10% quarter-over-quarter on our package policy growth which now makes up the majority of our book.
And we see more room more elasticity in Auto.
So if you look at Auto quarter-over-quarter we're up almost 2 points in retention.
So that tells me we have more room to increase margin in the back half of the year and we plan to do that to get our underlying in line.
With regard to deterioration you're seeing on the overall underlying of 2 points you have some non-cat quoted weather in there we had a really tough quarter in terms of weather and you have non-cat quoted weather and you see the impact of a onetime rather sizable premium refund that's driving some of that too.
So all those things combined are driving that underlying.
But overall we still see room for margin expansion in the back half of the year.
And if you look at the investor supplement you'll see that we take most of our rates in the back half of the year on Encompass.
And so you'll see us earn an even more rate on Auto and Home as the year progresses.
And we think we have room to do that.
Why don't we do 1 more question? Our final question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Back to Allstate Financial the results were just excellent and it's not just on expenses.
I know it's the spread of net investment income to interest credit after I take out the impact of Lincoln Benefit it's also growing and the benefits to premium ratio has been declining.
There's a lot of good stuff going on there.
Can you sort of talk about not just the efficiencies but actually the underlying profitability of the business I guess being generated what's happening? Yes I'm happy to do that.
I do feel good about the overall results at Allstate Financial.
And the operating income obviously at $165 million given the size of our business today is a terrific result.
We're hitting on a lot of cylinders as you pointed out.
It isn't just expenses.
I think benefit spread continues to be nice and stable and we're seeing good results on that year-over-year.
Where we're seeing a really great result year-over-year is investment spread.
So it looks if you look at the reported numbers we're up $12 million in investment spread.
If you take out LBL it was actually $68 million.
And so we've talked about that in the past with the investment strategy we've taken we are hoping for higher returns we're expecting higher returns it will come with some volatility and we're prepared for that.
But at the moment the investment income benefit spread expenses everything has worked well for us and that's why you see the results you're seeing.
Okay.
Thank you all.
I know there's number of calls today.
So I'll close it off where we began.
This quarter's results show the benefits of both having a focused strategy and solid execution.
The net is growth at attractive returns.
Thank you very much we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Mr.
Pat Macellaro.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
To begin Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and I will provide some color on our results for the quarter and then we'll answer your questions.
We realize there are other calls this morning so we've shortened our comments.
[Operator Instructions].
Yesterday we issued our news release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the third quarter and posted the slides we'll use this morning.
These are all available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2013 our 10-Q for the third quarter the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and on our website.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
And now I'll turn it over to Tom for his thoughts on the quarter.
Well good morning everybody.
We appreciate your interest and investment in Allstate.
I'm going to start by providing an overview of the third quarter results in particular how they tie to our strategy and our 2014 operating priorities.
Then Pat and Steve will go -- provide some more context around results then our leadership team will be here to answer your questions.
So in the room with us are Matt Winter who leads Allstate personal lines; Don Civgin who's responsible for Allstate Financial and Insurance; Kathy Mabe who leads Business to Business; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
So let's begin with Slide 2.
If you -- put simply Allstate had a really good quarter this time.
We continue to proactively take action which is to enhance our competitive position execute our strategy and deliver our current results.
And while not everything is where it ultimately needs to be most of the trends are in line with expectations.
The strategy of focusing on unique value propositions for different customer segments is working.
Growth increased as we added almost 800 000 Property-Liability policies in force and increased annual net written premiums by $1.4 billion over the trailing 12 months.
Financial results for the quarter were also excellent.
Net income was $750 million for the third quarter.
As you can see that's in the table on the bottom which is significantly higher than last year's third quarter.
But you remember last year we reported the initial loss estimate on the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life in 2013 results.
Operating income for the third quarter was $1.39 per share.
The Property-Liability business generated good combined ratios in aggregate despite catastrophe losses and investments in growth.
Allstate Financial had good growth in the voluntary workplace benefits business with policies increasing almost 8% in the third quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
Allstate Financial returns were up which reflects higher investment yields lower expenses and a declining capital base.
We also made progress on our 5 2014 operating priorities and delivered strong cash returns to our shareholders.
If you go to Slide 3 that breaks out the Property-Liability operating results for the 4 customer segments.
Starting at top of the slide Property-Liability policies in force increased 2.4% and net written premiums were 4.9% higher than the prior year quarter.
Overall profitability was strong with the Property-Liability recorded combined ratio of 93.5 which included 7.1 points of Cat losses.
The underlying combined ratio for the third quarter was 86.1 which brings that year-to-date total then for the first 9 months to 86.4 which is better than the full year outlook range of 87 to 89 that we provided in February.
The Property-Liability results by customer segment are shown on the bottom half of the page.
If you start with the largest segment served by the Allstate agencies that's in the lower left profitability was good across all products and Matt's team continues to execute a comprehensive profitable growth plan.
We continue to have broad-based auto policy growth which is 2.6% higher than the prior year.
There was also a modest increase of about 0.1% in homeowners and other personalized policies were 1.7% higher than the prior year.
Esurance which is in the lower right had policy growth of 14% over the prior year quarter which is a decline from last year's growth rate reflecting the profit improvement initiatives.
Growth investments continue to have a negative impact on the recorded combined ratio.
And as we discussed in prior quarters Don's team is focused on reducing the underlying loss ratio which at 75.3 was about 2 points better than the prior year.
The lifetime profitability of growth at this loss ratio is above our cost of capital so we remain committed to increasing market share in this segment.
Encompass in the upper left has slowed growth particularly of its packaged [ph] policy offering as they expand profit improvement initiatives.
Encompass' path to growth under Kathy will be first to improve profitability.
Answer Financial in the upper right sold nonproprietary policies through the web and call centers.
Nonproprietary premiums increased almost 10% over the prior year quarter.
So if we go to Slide 4 our 5 2014 operating priorities are shown there.
And since we just discussed both growth and profit I'll focus on the remaining priorities.
We experienced another good quarter of investment returns.
The total portfolio return in the quarter was 0.4% but it's 4.7% for the first 9 months of 2014 reflecting the proactive approach taken by Judy's team.
Net investment income however was lower than the prior year quarter as strong limited partnership income was not enough to offset the impact of the $12 billion reduction in the portfolio because of the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Modernizing the operating model will improve the customer value proposition by enhancing customer service and lowering cost.
This includes simplifying technology applications and using continuous improvement to improve effectiveness and efficiency.
We also are looking to build long-term growth platforms.
So to increase growth in our largest customer segment we're building on the existing comprehensive growth plans by helping Allstate agents become trusted advisers and expanding into more local markets.
Our broad product line household focus and innovation by Good Hands Roadside and Drivewise further enhance those customer relationships.
The Drivewise telematics offering we've expanded that to include a mobile phone application which is now in 16 states so we can compare the utilization of that method to the devices that are tied to the car's OBD ports.
Esurance's advertising messages of insurance for the modern world and 7.5 minutes not 15 minutes has further strengthened the brand for self-serve customers.
Our broader product line geographical expansion and more sophisticated pricing will also support market share gains.
So in summary Allstate had strong results across a number of fronts in the quarter.
The strategy to better meet the unique needs of customers and proactively manage both investments and capital continues to serve our shareholders well.
So let me turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Tom.
I'll begin by reviewing the Property-Liability highlights on Slide 5.
Beginning with the chart on the top of this page Property-Liability earned premium of $7.3 billion in the third quarter was 4.8% higher than the third quarter of 2013.
Recorded combined ratio of 93.5 increased 3.5 points versus the third quarter of 2013 driven by increased catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio was 86.1 for the third quarter bringing the year-to-date result to 86.4.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment increased 11.3% from the prior year quarter driven primarily by limited partnership income.
Property-Liability operating income in the third quarter was $553 million 19.3% lower than the third quarter of 2013 which as you may recall was a very benign quarter in terms of weather.
During the third quarter the annual review of discontinued lines and coverage reserve levels led to an increase of $102 million in reserves most of which pertain to asbestos liabilities.
This increased the Property-Liability recorded combined ratio by 1.4 points for the third quarter.
Reserves were increased by $133 million in the third quarter of 2013 as a result of last year's annual review.
The chart on the lower left shows net written premium and policy-in-force growth rates for Allstate Protection.
The red line shows the continued positive policy growth trend that began in the second quarter of 2013.
Policies in force have grown by 2.4% from last year's third quarter and 1.8% from year-end 2013.
The exhibit to the right of this chart highlights the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratio trends as well as results by brand.
Esurance's underlying loss ratio of 75.3 for the third quarter of 2014 is also shown to isolate the impact of ongoing profit-improvement actions from the impact of growth investments.
Moving to Page 6 we show the components of premium and policy growth by brand.
Focusing on the Allstate brand in the upper left chart policies increased by 572 000 in the third quarter which is 1.9% higher than the third quarter of 2013 driven by both favorable new business and retention trends.
The Allstate brand grew net written premium by 4.5% in the third quarter versus the prior year quarter as average premiums continued to increase.
Total growth in net written premium was driven by a 4.9% increase in the Allstate brand auto and a 2.9% increase in Allstate brand homeowners compared with third quarter of 2013.
Moving to the chart on the right-hand side you can see the policy-in-force growth trends for Allstate brand auto and homeowners going back to 2005.
Current results compare favorably to recent history due to having substantially completed the repositioning of the homeowners business.
In this quarter Allstate brand auto policies rose by 504 000 or 2.6% from the prior year quarter.
Allstate brand homeowners rose by a modest 5 000 policies from the prior year quarter which is indicative of continued progress in leveraging this product as a competitive advantage versus monoline auto carriers.
Allstate brand auto -- Allstate brand policy growth is geographically broad-based and reflects both better customer retention and new business sales.
There are currently 42 states growing Allstate brand auto policies and 21 states growing Allstate brand homeowner policies versus the prior year.
Esurance's read of premium and policy growth in the lower left continues to slow due to ongoing pricing and underwriting actions underway to ensure a long-term profitable growth as well as Esurance's increasing size.
Total Esurance premium grew by 14% policies in force grew by 14.1% in the third quarter compared with the third quarter of 2013.
Spending on expansion contributed approximately 2 points to the combined ratio in the third quarter.
Encompass policy-in-force growth highlighted in the lower right also continues to slow reflecting actions taken to ensure acceptable long-term returns.
Net written premium growth of 4.3% in the third quarter compared with third quarter of 2013 includes the impact of higher average premiums that are the result of the profit improvement plan.
Slide 7 highlights Allstate brand auto and homeowner underlying margin trends.
The charts on the left show Allstate brand auto and home recorded and underlying combined ratio trends while the charts on the right show the components of the quarterly underwriting combined ratio.
As you can see on the charts on the left-hand side while there's volatility in the recorded combined ratio trends from quarter-to-quarter due to catastrophes the long-term underlying combined ratio results have been both very good and stable for auto insurance and steadily improving for homeowners.
The Allstate brand auto under its [ph] current premium continued to increase in the quarter up 1.7% from the prior year quarter.
Premium increases have been improved in 35 states so far in 2014 reflecting an organizational focus on maintaining margins by making frequent adjustments based on actual results.
The underlying losses and expenses per policy increased slightly in the third quarter by 1/10 of 1% compared with the third quarter of 2013.
This resulted from a lower frequency of claims and expected increase in severity of losses along with the benefit from the lower expense ratio.
We experienced similar results in the third quarter for Allstate brand homeowners.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy reflect prior year quarter and average earned premium continued to increase although at a slowing rate as more states approach rate adequacy.
Allstate brand homeowners underlying combined ratio was 60 in the third quarter.
We're continuing to take rate increases and make underwriting and product changes as needed to continue to keep pace with loss trends and maintain the underlying combined ratio in both of these lines.
Now I'll turn it over to Steve to cover Allstate financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 8 our strategy is for Allstate Financial to become more strategically integrated with the Allstate brand's customer value proposition.
Allstate Life and Retirement has been refocused on the Allstate agencies but the integration in the Allstate brand customer value proposition will require a multi-year effort.
The chart on the bottom of this page highlights operating income by quarter including and excluding the impact of the sold Lincoln Benefit Life business.
Operating income for the quarter was $125 million 1.6% lower than the third quarter of 2013 but higher when excluding LBL results from the prior year.
Operating income return on equity has continued to improve given our efforts to focus the business; a lower cost structure; strong investment income over the past 4 quarters reflecting limited partnership income; and the $1.2 billion return of capital by the Allstate Life Insurance Company over the past 12 months.
So that estimated historical results with Lincoln Benefit Life are provided on our third quarter 2014 10-Q and the investor supplement to provide you with further context.
On Slide 9 in the top left graph you can see the composition of the investment portfolio and the impact of the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life which reduced the size of the portfolio by $12 billion.
We are taking a measured approach over time to shift the portfolio composition from fixed income assets to equity and other assets where returns are driven primarily by idiosyncratic performance.
Our equity and owned portfolio is lower compared to the prior year end primarily due to the reclassification of tax credit investments to other assets and the sale of approximately $300 million of limited partnership positions.
Our total portfolio return presented at the top right was 0.4% for the third quarter as investment income of 1% was partially offset by lower fixed income and equity valuations.
You can see the valuation impact varies from quarter-to-quarter while the income yield has remained relatively constant.
Total return for the first 9 months of 2014 was 4.7%.
The lower half of the slide provides the investment income and yield for the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios each of which comprise approximately half of the portfolio.
This approximate equal split reflects the strategic decision to deploy capital out of Allstate Financial.
The Property-Liability portfolio in the lower left graph shows the interest-bearing yield has stabilized after our 2013 rate risk reduction actions and illustrates the variability in income that may result from limited partnership and other equity investments.
The Allstate Financial portfolio in the lower right graph has a more stable yield due to the longer duration of these investments and the limited reinvestment activity.
The decline in quarterly income versus the prior year is due to the sale of LBL.
Allstate Financial's portfolio has been reduced through a variety of actions that resulted in a decline of total invested assets from a peak of $78 billion in the first quarter of 2007 to $39 billion in the third quarter of 2014.
Slide 10 provides an overview of how our capital structure has changed over time.
On the left-hand side of the page you can see the capital structure at the end of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2014 and the shift from predominantly senior debt to include more hybrid debt and preferred stock increasing both our strategic and financial flexibility.
With the repayment of $650 million of senior debt in August the capital restructuring plan we started early last year is complete.
That said we constantly evaluate alternative sources of capital to lower our cost or decrease volatility in order to create additional shareholder value.
Shareholders received cash returns of over $1 billion in the third quarter as we repurchased $926 million of common stock and paid $122 million in common stock dividends.
Through the first 9 months of the year total common shareholder cash returns were $2.42 billion including quarterly dividends the completion of one $750 million accelerated share repurchase program the initiation of a second $750 million accelerated share repurchase program and open market purchases.
We have now completed just over 75% of the $2.5 billion share repurchase authorization approved in February in about 40% of the authorized 18-month repurchase period.
Book value per common share reached $48.28 increasing 6.6% since year end and 11% since September 30 of last year.
Operating income return on equity was a strong 13% in the third quarter on a trailing 12-month basis but lower than the full year 2013 return of 14.5% reflecting the impact of higher catastrophe losses in the first 9 months of this year and a higher equity base.
As I mentioned last quarter much of the increased equity is a result of the positive impact of the 2013 change to pension and retiree benefits and plan assumption changes.
Now let's open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question can you -- Tom could you talk a little bit about the other personal lines business? That roughly $2.5 billion of premium.
What were the trends in that line up from a profitability perspective? Sure let me provide some overall context and then Matt can give you some specifics by line.
But first as you know in that customer segment where they want local advice and branded products that is -- that's served by the Allstate Agency.
They want to buy most of their stuff from the same person.
The logic is that I don't want to have to have a relationship with somebody to buy auto insurance and home and boat and PUP policies and renters policies.
So we try to -- we do offer them a broad range of stuff.
And we have -- Matt's team has been working on more of a household focus which includes those policies.
So we've of course sold those for years.
I think we have about 5 million policies in total in force when you look at them in total.
Matt can take you through sort of both the growth trends where we've had some good success and profitability.
Thanks Tom.
Thanks first of all for asking about the other personal lines.
We often get through call without ever mentioning these.
And as Tom mentioned we're trying to incorporate all the products a customer might need within the Allstate Agency value proposition.
And so we've had an increased emphasis on the other personal lines products.
As you know there's a wide group of products grouped within this category and we do do the breakdown on the -- in the investor sup on both Pages 15 and 30 that gives you some of the net written premium trends and the policy-in-force trends.
What you see on the profit side is we've had a fair amount of margin actions this year in the landlord manufactured home and the PUP areas.
And so that has suppressed some of our IIF growth because of those margin actions in those lines.
Most of our item-in-force growth has come from renters and condo which are where we need them to be from a profitability standpoint.
We did have some decline in involuntary auto as more companies are willing to take on more of those drivers.
That somewhat dampened our growth.
But overall when we look at our other personal lines products other than the work that we have ongoing in landlord manufactured home and PUP we feel very good about the profitability very good about the growth prospects in all those individual product areas.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And could you provide sort of an underlying or just an indication of kind of where that business is running maybe relative to auto and home? Well you can see that on Slide 3 Mike.
The combined -- the recorded combined ratio for other personal lines for this quarter was 85 that compares to 81 for home and 93 for auto.
And as Matt pointed out there's a wide range of products so the capital under those products varies significantly.
[indiscernible] returns.
You might also look Mike Page 23 of the investor sup shows the loss ratio cat ratio expense ratio and combined ratio for that category.
Research Division</strong> Got it great.
And then just in terms of the homeowners lines so now that's ticking on the plus side for the first time in a while and the new issued apps [ph] seem to be moving in the right direction.
Can you kind of talk about what you expect there? I mean do you still see opportunities now for PIF growth to move further into positive territory? And what are the factors driving that? And how should we think about the interaction between that and auto if you look to get more on the offensive there? I'll provide a longer term perspective and Matt can talk about -- well his current growth plans and the profit improvement plans because while we're happy with the overall combined ratio where it is today this is -- it's a country with 50 states and -- and a couple of territories and so we have to do things differently in each of those and so they're not all perfect.
But if you -- there is -- we put in a slightly longer view.
If you really look at homeowners in total I think it peaked Mike about 7.8 million policies and it's a little above 6 million now.
And it's really been coming down since the '06 period of time where we started taking pretty drastic action in at the time relatively narrowly focused cat areas being Florida and Louisiana a few places.
Then as the weather got worse in '08 and '09 we expanded that activity by both increasing prices and as importantly our re-underwriting the book and making sure we like the individual properties we had taken risk on.
And you can see the business kept coming down on an overall items-in-force level.
That does -- auto does track with it.
If you look at our -- the growth rate of those 2 they track together.
That said we weren't willing in the depths of the -- getting smaller in the homeowners business to give ourselves a complete out for that because there are of course monoline auto companies that grow and we felt that we should be able to grow as well.
It's a little harder though when you're telling somebody "I'm not going to insure your house.
Please keep your auto with me then please give me your auto if you don't have it." So they do trend together but they are also separate.
And so auto has had higher growth rates over the last couple of years than home has.
Home has finally ticked positive.
It's 5 000 on 6 million.
That doesn't count as sustainable growth.
So Matt can talk about what they're doing to get sustainable growth out of that business and how it turns into a competitive advantage for us relative to both the local advice and branded Allstate segment and -- but we won't go there right now.
But you also know we're adding this to the Esurance platform as well so that they can be in that segment.
Thanks Tom and Mike thanks for the question.
As you noted this is the first quarter since 2006 that we grew items on a year-over-year basis.
And while it's by a small number of policies it's pretty widespread widespread geographically and widespread in terms of its drivers being both favorable new business and retention.
As Pat noted in his opening remarks we now have 21 states that are growing year-over-year.
New business is 12% above prior year and we actually have 36 states with higher new business levels than last year.
As we've talked about on previous calls we've been putting in House &amp; Home.
House &amp; Home growth has been higher than our countrywide average.
And as we've also discussed House &amp; Home gives us some benefits on the profitability side in that it normally goes in rate adequate when we launch it.
And due to its product design tends to be more stable and tends to require less rate.
And so it gives us a competitive advantage in terms of stability in the marketplace.
On the retention side retention in homeowners continues to improve.
We're now up 1.2 percentage points since 2012 and we have 38 states that are above prior year retention levels.
What's interesting to us is that while we monitor both first and subsequent retention and both are showing favorable trends we've noticed that subsequent retention has now reached its highest level since 2005.
So we feel quite good about the new business growth.
We feel quite good about the retention trends and we feel quite good about the profitability of that business to enable us to maintain that trend line.
So we believe we have more room to go.
We did have some benefit of opening up in some PML areas that had previously been closed where we figured diversification benefit was worth allowing small policy growth there.
But by no means do we feel like we've capped out.
We think we have geographic areas within the United States that are under-penetrated compared to what our market potential is.
And we think we have room to grow as we expand our agency footprint in some of those areas.
So we're cautiously optimistic about the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Question on Allstate Financial.
Where is the expense structure relative to where you want to be without LBL? You mentioned expenses I think is bullet 4 or 5 as a priority but what sort of timing should we expect on getting the expenses rightsized to the smaller operation? Bob it's Don.
Thanks for the question and thanks for noticing that the expenses are down.
Sometimes it's thankless work but I appreciate you pointing it out.
The Allstate Financial strategy which we've been consistently following for the last 4 or 5 years really results in a business that's smaller and far better aligned with the Allstate customer value proposition.
Part of that -- and Steve mentioned how much smaller the investment assets are.
A lot of that happened actually over the course of the last 4 years or so even though we pointed out a 7-year timeframe.
And so that has put a lot of pressure on the expense structure.
We're down this year about 22% in Life and Retirement business.
I'll exclude Allstate Benefits because they're growing.
But in the Allstate Life and Retirement business we're down about 22% in expenses from last year's quarter.
I expect those numbers to continue coming down some.
But we're getting to the point where we're about the right size -- or the expense structure is about the right size for the company.
What we really want to do now is make sure that we're focused on supporting the customer the Allstate customer through the Allstate agencies and generating some growth for the company.
I think that's going to take a bit longer to get through the transition with Lincoln Benefit Life.
But the expense piece of it has come down nicely and we still have a little bit more to go.
Research Division</strong> And the follow-up is on auto.
With gas sub $3 in a lot of areas are you pricing for increased frequency yet? Or you're waiting to see what will happen? Okay Bob Bob I love the follow-up from the life to auto.
But I love you anyway.
Matt can talk specifically about all these of course.
Frequency has all kinds of components in it right? It's got miles driven it's got who drives the car it's got -- that's affected by a lot things including gas prices.
The biggest driver historically from our analysis which is kind of hard to get between that is really on the economic growth.
So people are working unemployment rates are down economic activity is up people are going to restaurants they're driving places.
And so as you look at the progress and of course unemployment and economic activity has trended up for the last 3 or 4 years.
Matt's team has reflected that into the results and you see we've been able to maintain ratios.
Gas prices may have an impact on mileage driving.
And we track it.
It's not as close right? Because gas prices aren't really that significant a cost that they keep people from driving.
So if you're paying $4 a gallon and you suddenly pay $3 a gallon even if you're getting 10 miles per gallon you're saving $0.10 a mile.
It's not really a barrier to people going places.
That said you tend to get more like summer driving vacations and stuff like that.
I would just say Matt's team has proven their ability to micro-target that stuff and drive it in a way there.
So Matt if you want to make comment about frequency and profitability? Sure.
Thanks Tom.
I don't really have much to add as far as the gas price impact.
As Tom said it's something we'll watch and watch carefully.
But we don't expect it to be a core driver.
That being said our frequency so far has been extremely favorable to prior year.
It's within our historical ranges it's broad geographically.
So our frequency trends are -- have been good.
We stay on top of them as Tom says.
This is a national business managed very locally.
And so even if the change in gas prices drives behavior and miles driven in some small geographies it will be geographically specific.
It won't be widespread.
And so we'll manage it that way and we'll continue to do what the company has been quite good at doing.
As you see on page 7 of our presentation we have a pretty long-term history of managing our margins well and keeping an eye on both frequency and severity and reacting accordingly.
So it's something to watch but not something to obsess over.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The first topic I want to cover is on reinsurance cost.
Reinsurance costs appear to be coming down pretty dramatically over the course of this year and probably into next year.
Could you update us on your reinsurance protection strategy in terms of whether you expect those savings to fall through to the bottom line? Or perhaps you've used a portion of those savings to buy more coverage? Steve do you want to talk about the [indiscernible].
Jay we redid those programs in June.
It was just -- even if current -- if pricing is lower today than it was in June we put our plan in place.
It was a multi-year plan.
So Jay this is Steve.
As Tom said we put in place a multi-year plan the core reinsurance is a 3-year plan rolling 1/3 1/3 1/3.
And this year well actually last year and going into this year we started issuing catastrophe bonds again which we had not done for about 5 or 6 years.
This year in particular we issued over $1 billion and it was in excess I think of $2.75 billion if I remember it correctly.
So the core part of the program is really subject to the changing pricing in the reinsurance market.
But it would only be -- kick in about 1/3 at a time each year going forward.
And as you know our pricing is adjusted for reinsurance costs so that kind of bleeds into the pricing over a period of time.
We did take the chance -- opportunity this year for the lower -- with the lower prices in the core reinsurance market to buy more coverage up top so -- and also at the bottom.
So for those several years we've had a first event $750 million retention we lowered that to $500 million this year and we increased the amount of coverage on the topside of the program.
So we have the best coverage I believe we've ever had.
And we have multiple sources both the traditional reinsurance program and the catastrophe bonds that are 4- and 5-year maturity type bonds.
So we're covered over a longer period of time.
Jay this is Tom maybe to take it up a level in terms of capital management.
We kind of look at reinsurance as just capital at this point.
And so Steve talked about how we use it to reduce volatility.
We of course are trying to be proactive everywhere in the capital structure.
So we put a bunch -- as Steve pointed out we took a bunch of debt out put on preferred put on hybrids which lowers our cost of capital and puts us in a really strong financial position.
As the market develops I think what you're seeing in reinsurance pricing is really the growth of -- the increased interest in insurance-related investments and assets.
And so we think you'll continue to see new forms of alternative capital being developed which will enable us to either lower reinsurance costs take advantage of other things in the capital structure or find other ways to lower our cost of capital or take volatility out of the business.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
On the capital management front Tom or Steve I find it interesting that Allstate appears to be moving towards share buybacks and dividends being in excess of annual operating earnings.
There's only a few companies in the property-casualty sector that did that -- or have done that so far mostly on the commercial line side but Allstate doesn't have the pricing pressure they're facing.
So can you update us a bit in terms of level of magnitude and in terms of what you're thinking on the pace of buybacks and dividends relative to earnings? We don't -- I know some of the banks Jay do it that way.
They say 80% of their earnings.
We don't do it that way.
We obviously look at it relative to how much capital we have which is dependent on earnings.
But we look at how -- for example some of the things we got rid of -- we've reduced as Steve pointed out we've reduced the size of the Allstate Life and Retirement balance sheet by about $40 billion which is equal to some life insurance companies.
And so the capital that supported that we either can deploy in growing our property casualty business or in giving it to shareholders.
We -- included in that was the sale of Lincoln Benefit.
So that's been factored in.
We don't forecast where we'll go after we get done with this share repurchase program.
But Steve's been very aggressive in buying back the current shares because we have plenty of capital and we're feeling good about returns.
And we do want to keep that capital and have our ROE go down.
Our next question comes from the line of John Hall from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question starting with Allstate Financial.
In the quarter there was a fair amount of difference between the third quarter and the second quarter operating earnings.
I was wondering if we're at a level that we can start to think of building off of the third quarter going forward.
I'll give my view.
Steve and Don may have their own views.
I think this quarter looks more like the future than last quarter John.
Yes I think they're going to agree.
No one is answering so I think we all agree.
We're not -- we don't do forecasts by line or by company or something like that.
But you had some increased limited partnership returns last quarter the second quarter of this year than this year.
Now I will point out I know there's been some questions from people about the volatility about limited partnership returns.
And yes it is true that limited partnership returns are more volatile.
But that's specifically why we break them out for you and it's also specifically why we do it.
And so if you think about that our investment philosophy is get a good risk adjusted for return not to try and optimize any given quarter.
And then we -- the return -- we look for attractive returns.
And because these investments are volatile they tend to get higher returns.
And it also puts another -- with the idiosyncratic or the asset-specific concentration on investment results it puts some diversification into the portfolio rather than just the market.
So it's a good reason for that standpoint.
And also if you look at our overall volatility we've reduced volatility in the investment portfolio because of interest rates.
You see that in lower operating income but if you look at how we've shortened the duration in the Property-Liability portfolio that's reduced volatility.
While this injects a little more volatility we think it's volatility that is higher return than just keeping interest rates -- our duration out there.
So we thought the trade between the 2 and the risk return.
And then if you look at the volatility across the company and go up a level while I know this makes it harder for you all to forecast what that -- the limited partnership returns will be and then hence what Allstate Financial's returns will be.
If you look at the volatility in the overall company P&amp;L we have plenty of places.
We've have plenty of volatility and this is just an uncorrelated piece of volatility.
So we have catastrophe volatility frequency volatility and then the partnership volatility.
But we spike it out so you can get it but we think overall it's exactly the right thing to be doing with our investments even though it creates a little bit of confusion as to is your run rate 150 or 125.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
No that all make sense.
And you sort of got to my follow-up which had to do with whether you're making any changes to the investment portfolio allocation towards these types of investments.
So this is Judy.
And yes we are changing our allocation towards these types of investments.
As Tom just said we like this trade off versus interest rates currently and frankly into the future.
But we're doing that at a measured pace.
There's no denying that the market is pretty fully priced in terms of valuations.
So we're looking at the space we like the space over the long term.
It's just finding the right investments for us and those idiosyncratic investments that we think will deliver higher returns again over the long-term.
And Judy you're highly diversified in the space you're in right? So if...
Yes.
Within the overall portfolio we're highly diversified; and then this part of the portfolio we're highly diversified as well.
And you can see that in the Q we break that out.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Two quick questions the first question is on loss-cost trends.
Can you talk about what you might be seeing in Personal Injury Protection auto severity trends concerning the fact that one of your competitors pointed out to a 17% increase recently? Well of course you know PIF coverage is in about 5 states.
I'm not sure what their 17% was if that was one state or across the country.
It seems like a pretty -- it seemed high to me if it was across all 5 states.
If it was us we'd be really worried about that.
I don't know if they are or not and I don't know who you are talking about at this point but I'll soon find out.
Matt do you want to talk -- it's really a relatively highly focused but important question because those states tend to be pretty large states being New York Florida Michigan anyway Matthew? So as Tom said I'm not sure specifically who you're referring to.
So I can't comment on what they might have said.
Obviously PIF and BI are things that we watch constantly.
They tend to be somewhat volatile.
And they move around and bounce around.
And if they're not managed carefully they can get out of control.
We watch them carefully and we react in a variety of different ways depending upon the geography.
In some cases it's pricing action it's -- in other cases it's underwriting actions.
In other cases it's managing where we're growing and where we're not.
And so we'll continue to manage those 2 coverages fairly aggressively.
We're not seeing anything get out of control from our perspective I can say that.
We're seeing normal volatility that we would expect.
But we're not seeing anything out of control.
I would -- a couple of things I would look at too if -- on the subject [ph] without trying to [indiscernible] but I'd first look at their size of the book if they have a small book.
I'd also look at what happened the prior year.
That -- as Matt pointed out that PIP line could be highly volatile.
You get some pretty good cases in there and all of a sudden the quarter-over-quarter looks really wild but the absolute level looks okay in the long term.
So I don't know whether something has a problem or not.
There's also the claim procedures and the schedules in which we operate.
And sometimes you can't control that which is -- so they'll put a schedule in to say chiropractors get a certain amount of money and you have to pay according to that.
So it doesn't mean that the company's not well managed it just means you're doing what you're required to do.
But the way in which you manage that is exactly what Matt said which is you're keeping -- paying attention to it and either you're controlling your cost and making sure people get the right amount of money or you're changing your pricing.
And as he pointed out we were -- we have -- I think when people look at our business on profitability they tend to take a commercial lines perspective and look at sort of price and loss cost and assume it's all about price.
We really have a system.
And you really have to think about the system how it works at a granular level which makes adjustments all the time.
And it's that system that's generated the good combined ratios in auto insurance for a decade.
And it's managing and leading that system which we have to do to make sure we get good returns.
The only other question I had was going back to the discussion on telematics and I think you mentioned the mobile app is in 15 states.
What I was wondering was why not skip the OBD or the app step and work directly with car manufacturers? We all are talking about the connected car concept.
Why -- what would preclude you from working out some sort of arrangement with let's say the big 3 car manufacturers and installing something on those vehicles which allows the customer to get a code from Allstate.
It's a good question and the answer is nothing but it wouldn't be comprehensive in part because the average age of the fleet is 11 years.
And so there's a whole bunch of people out there driving that we'd like to offer them the opportunity to get more sophisticated pricing and a better driving experience now as opposed to waiting until they buy a new car.
So we're actively in conversations with everybody.
And that range of potential participants in the connected car obviously includes the OEs the auto manufacturers but it also includes the telcos.
Some of the telcos are interested some of the other connected customer technology companies are interested.
So we're active in all the fronts.
We'd like to think of this as a tremendous opportunity for our company.
And it will evolve and so we're trying to put as many oars in the water as we can so that we at least stay with the tide if not get ahead of it.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I thought I'd ask a big picture question about Esurance.
I'm wondering if you can walk us through how you guys are thinking about the economics of ad spend really rough numbers.
It kind of looks like you spent maybe $500 million $600 million on advertising since you've bought the business.
You've driven a similar amount of new business growth.
And so I'm curious on how you think about or we should think about what the returns of that investment would be.
And big pictures is this something where you should be advertising more if you could scale up the organization and you can handle the level of growth? I'll give you a strategic answer and Don can jump into the specifics and we look at it both ways Josh.
So certainly we think it is an important growth element in our plan.
So we -- to a certain extent if you go way up what we've done is we now have a diversified set of growth opportunities with -- inside the Property-Liability space.
We've traded some of that off for diversification and growth opportunities by reducing the size of our life business.
So we used to have -- so we have -- and we had this opportunity with a highly focused customer value proposition to go at that self-serve space and really take on GEICO and Progressive Direct head on with in our words out self-serve them.
And so that's why we talk about 7.5 minutes not 15.
We also are good at that.
The reason that diversification by customer segment works is because it's something we're really good at both pricing settling claims and all that has turned out to be true in aggregate for us.
I think the business is up about not quite double yet we're about 80% bigger than when we bought it.
And you're right we've invested a lot of money in it.
We also think we've enhanced the underlying processes not all of which you see in the current P&amp;L because we continue to invest aggressively in like rolling out homeowners motorcycle renters.
I think that Don that's eaten up a couple of points of profit just last quarter.
So we continue to invest in that.
And we think it's an opportunity for us to compete more directly and stop them from coming to compete with the -- in the multiline customers in the lower left.
And so we like the portfolio approach it gives us.
So that said we like the deal we're glad we paid a lot of money for it.
And we're even happier that it's turned out to be growing and we're going to make money on it.
As it relates to the individual annual amount that gets balanced a couple of ways.
One is we look at our overall profitability of the company.
And I like there to be a balance between that.
So while we certainly could spend more money I don't want to put too much pressure on other parts of the business that also have growth opportunities.
We've got lots of places we can grow.
Matt's adding agencies Kathy's growing the benefits business.
We've got plenty of places we can grow.
So we try to balance it in the overall portfolio of growth opportunities.
And then Don looks specifically at the returns and the efficiency curve so to speak.
So Don you might want to talk about how you figure out where the efficiency curve is and then the economics by kind of segment.
Yes Josh it's -- clearly as Tom said the Esurance acquisition was done to give us a strategic advantage with that particular customer segment not to make our GAAP results easier to explain.
And it has grown -- 14% growth this last quarter on top of 27% last year it's been growing really nicely.
But it forces us to balance between the growth and the profitability.
The way we run the company the objective function is to grow it as quickly as we can while maintaining the economics so that the returns are above our cost of capital.
Now that requires balancing a few things.
So if I look at this year's result so far we've been working hard on the loss ratio.
That came down a couple of points again this quarter.
It's down a little bit more than that year-to-date.
We feel really good about the loss ratio.
The expenses year-to-date are lower if you take out advertising.
And then as Tom mentioned we've got a couple of points of investment in things like motorcycle homeowners renters other product launches and so forth.
And what we're really trying to do then is balance how much we spend on marketing with the acquisition cost that creates so that we can continue to manage our combined ratio on a lifetime basis to be something under 100.
Should we -- if we wanted to strategically we could relax some of those constraints.
But as Tom said we don't want to use more than our share of the resources of the company.
And they're growing really nicely.
I mean the fact that they're up 80% 85% since we bought them and still running on a sustainable economic basis is good.
So that's the construct under which we're operating.
We'll continue to balance that kind of quarter-by-quarter as it relates to marketing.
But my suspicion is we'll continue to see improvements in loss ratio because it's been a focus area which will allow us to spend a little bit more on acquisition and still make the equation work.
Jonathan this is Pat we'll take one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just one question.
Management's stated goal has been to maintain the margin and yet you've gone past it and done extremely well for the last couple of quarters.
Curious as to whether you intend to keep this margin or do you think that your overrunning just a tad and would like to maybe just grow some more? Well as you point out we're operating at the bottom end of the range that we provided to everybody in February.
We provided that range to give you all a sense for how good we think the underlying economics are of the business and we'll do that again in February of the outcome here [ph].
We put a range on it obviously because frequency and severity can bounce around a good point each without actually -- the underlying -- the actual economics being just volatile as opposed to you've done something right or wrong.
So we like where we're operating today.
As you could hear from Don's comments we're all in for growth but it's got to be profitable growth.
Sometimes we get growth and it's not profitable and then we shrink it.
Other times we get growth and it's profitable a little more profitable than we think.
So we toggle between those at a relatively micro level.
But we don't have any desire to reduce our returns in auto or homeowners or our other businesses today to get more growth.
We don't think we need to we think we're accurately priced.
We think the combination of our pricing sophistication claim skills distribution unique value propositions marketing all that adds up to customer value where they're prepared to let us earn the economic rents we do.
So we're happy with where we're at.
So we're not looking to sort of say combined ratio's going to go up so we can grow another point.
That's not a good trade for shareholders.
Well thank you all.
I know you've got an incredible amount of work between -- in the next couple of days.
So thank you for listening.
Our strategy is working it's profit growth shareholder returns.
We're proactive in running the business.
We have a number of initiatives underway which will enable us to continue to do those things.
So we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Pat Macellaro.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and myself we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday we issued our news release and investor supplement and posted the slides we'll use this morning.
These are all available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2013 our 10-Q for the third quarter the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and in our investor supplement.
We're recording the call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Well good morning.
Thank you for your continued interest and investment in Allstate.
I'll provide an overview of where we stand strategically and operationally and then Pat and Steve will go through the results in detail.
And as always our senior leadership team is here with us so Matt Winter who's Allstate's President and the leader of all the Allstate branded operations; Don Civgin the President of Emerging Businesses; Kathy Mabe who's President of our Business to Business Operations; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and then Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
Let's start with Page -- Slide 2 Allstate's 2014 results.
It demonstrates that our consumer-focused strategy when combined with strong execution creates real value for shareholders.
We had 5 operating priorities for 2014.
Let me go through each of those with you starting with growth.
We had a good year with total policies in force growing by 840 000 or 2.5%.
The Allstate brand had accelerating growth throughout the year as auto insurance built up momentum and we've put increased focus on growing the homeowners business now that we're comfortable with its returns.
The number of Allstate agencies increased by 4% for the year and auto new business in 2014 hit a historical high.
When combined with improving customer satisfaction and retention that's leading to sustainable growth.
We intentionally slowed growth at Esurance and Encompass to focus on improving returns.
The second priority was to maintain margins and we did this through the year with the underlying combined ratio being at the favorable end of the range we set at the beginning the year with you.
Fourth quarter auto margins were off somewhat and Pat will discuss that in a few minutes.
The Allstate brand homeowners business had a great quarter with recorded combined ratio of below 70.
Despite a 42% increase in catastrophe losses from the prior year the combined ratio for this line and this brand was 82.5 for the full year which results in a good long-term return on capital.
Esurance's underlying combined ratio improved by 1 point for the year and Encompass' average premiums were up and frequency was down but that's yet to translate into a lower combined ratio.
You can also see the benefits this year of having a broad product portfolio on profitable growth both on the upside in terms of growth and then balancing out our returns.
The homeowners business now generates strong returns as do many of our other non-auto insurance products.
Proactively managing our investment portfolio is also obviously required to generate good economic results for our shareholders.
Our total return on the $81 billion portfolio was 5.80% for the year which is a strong result given the large position in investment-grade corporate debt.
We have maintained a shorter duration in the Property-Liability portfolio which is focused on the 3- to 5-year portion of the curve because the return per unit of risk for going longer did not meet our objectives.
We also made good progress of being more active in leveraging our position in buying and selling fixed income securities so if you look at the 10-K you'll see that our portfolio turnover is up a little bit there.
In addition allocations to investments with less correlation to public markets such as private equity infrastructure real estate continue to be increasing.
The last 2 priorities are longer term and include modernizing the operating model and building long-term growth platforms.
The integration of data analytics and technology are enabling us to improve both the effectiveness and then the efficiency of -- throughout the company.
Allstate Financial did a good job of reducing expenses given the reduced size of the business following the sale of Lincoln Benefit.
We're now positioned to increase investments to further integrate this into the Allstate Agency channel with a customer focus.
Esurance is a good growth platform for us and we're increasing market share in that self-serve and branded customer segment through incremental marketing investments and by expanding into homeowners and other insurance lines and entering some new geographic markets.
We're also investing heavily in telematics in growing our online aggregator Answer Financial.
Go to Slide 3.
The financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year are shown on this slide.
Growth momentum continued.
We increased net written premium by $1.4 billion this year or 5.1% which reflects the policy in force growth and an increase in average premiums.
Let me put this in perspective.
That growth alone would be enough to rank us a top 25 personal lines carrier.
Our financial results for the year were excellent.
Net income was -- for the year was $2.7 billion.
It was significantly higher than last year but you remember last year we recorded the initial estimated loss on the sale of Lincoln Benefit in 2013 results.
Operating income was $5.40 a share $5.40 which includes an increase of $742 million in pretax catastrophe losses compared with what was a relatively benign 2013.
Capital management and shareholder returns are also priorities that did not change from year-to-year and we had excellent results in those as well.
Shareholders received $2.8 billion in cash which represents almost 11% of our average market capitalization for the year.
We also just raised the dividend by 7% and announced yesterday a new $3 billion share repurchase program.
We further increased our financial strength by taking advantage of the opportunity to issue preferred stock at fixed rates and lower the debt-to-capital ratio to below 19%.
Slide 4 then shows the full year operating results under the way in which we construct the market so that's the 4 Property-Liability customer segments.
This slide we talked about every quarter for a while.
If you start at the top of the slide in aggregate profitability was strong with a recorded combined ratio of 93.9 which included 6.9 points of catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio for the year that excludes catastrophes and reserve changes was 87.2 which was at the favorable end of the outlook of 87 to 89 provided for 2014.
The Property-Liability results by customer segment are shown on the bottom half of this page.
If you start in the lower left the Allstate brand is our largest segment.
It comprises over 90% of our property liability written premiums.
Profitability in this segment was good across all products in 2014 and growth accelerated throughout the year.
Auto policy growth of 2.9% versus the prior year was broad based and driven by strong new business results and stable retention.
Homeowner policies grew 0.5 point so -- over the prior year and other personal lines policies were 2.1% higher than the year-end 2013.
Esurance in the lower right grew policies in force by 12.6% over the prior year.
Our growth rate there was impacted by profit improvement actions and the growing size of the business.
Advertising and expansion investments continue to have a negative impact on the recorded combined ratio so therefore we look at the underlying loss ratio which of course excludes expenses which removes the -- and then you look at catastrophes and prior reserve changes come out of that as well and that was 76.6 of the full year a full point better than 2013.
While the returns on new business are above our cost of capital we believe we can do better.
So growth has been slowed but we're still working on increasing market share.
Encompass in the upper left  further slowed growth in 2014 as we expanded our profit improvement actions.
This business is highly focused on lowering the underlying combined ratio in both auto and homeowners in 2015.
Answer Financial on the upper right is an insurance aggregator and sells nonproprietary policies through the web and call centers to self-serve customers.
Nonproprietary premiums of $527 million in 2014 increased over 10% versus the prior year.
Go to Slide 5.
I'd like to look forward before we dig deeper into the current results.
On Slide 5 you can see there are 5 operating priorities for 2015 which are the same as they were for this year.
The specifics under each of those obviously are evolving based on the progress we've made this year but the overall categories are the same.
We're also not changing our underlying combined ratio guidance from 87 to 89.
That's the same in 2015 as it was in 2014.
Now let me turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Tom.
I'll begin by reviewing the Property-Liability highlights on Slide 6.
Beginning with the chart on the top of this page Property-Liability earned premium of $28.9 billion in 2014 grew $1.3 billion or 4.7% over 2013.
Recorded combined ratio for the year of 93.9 increased 1.9 points versus 2013 driven by an increase in catastrophe losses of $742 million or 59.3% compared to the historically low level recorded in 2013.
As Tom mentioned earlier the year-to-date underlying combined ratio was an 87.2 at the lower end of our full year outlook range.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment decreased 5.4% from the prior year due primarily to lower returns from the fixed income portfolio.
Property-Liability operating income in 2014 was $2.1 billion 16% lower than 2013 reflecting the higher catastrophe losses.
Chart on the lower left shows net written premium and policy in force growth rates for Allstate Protection.
The red line representing policy in force growth shows a continued positive trend that's being driven by all 3 underwriting brands.
Policies in force grew by 840 000 or 2.5% from year-end 2013.
The Allstate brand accounted for 78% of policy growth in 2014 compared with 27% in 2013.
Average premium increases to reflect increased costs raised the total premium growth rate above unit growth.
Exhibit to the right of this chart highlights the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratio trends.
You can see the consistency in our underlying results for the last 8 quarters as well as the quarterly seasonality we experienced in both the first and fourth quarters each year.
You can also see from the red line that while the fourth quarter recorded combined ratio of 90 was the lowest in the year it was due to the fact that lower catastrophe losses offset an increase in non-catastrophe losses driven by higher auto accident frequency.
Page 7 highlights Allstate brand auto growth and margin trends.
Focusing on growth in the chart on the top.
Policies increased by 554 000 in 2014 which was 2.9% higher than 2013 driven by continued favorable new business and stable retention trends.
Net written premium grew 4.5% in 2014 as average premiums increased to reflect loss cost increases.
Chart on the lower left shows the consistent range of margin performance of Allstate brand auto.
Maintaining auto profitability remains a critical priority for us and one of which we have established a long history of success through pricing discipline underwriting and claims management.
The underlying combined ratio was 94.2 in 2014 0.2 point better than 2013.
While the annual result was within our expected range of performance we did experience a spike in the underlying combined ratio in the fourth quarter as you can see in the details on the right.
Annualized average premium per policy shown by the blue line continued to increase over the prior year in the quarter.
However average underlying losses and expenses per policy shown by the red line increased 4% in the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2013.
This increase was the result of higher levels of accident frequency experienced in the first 2 months of the quarter which was driven by a combination of increased economic activity and non-catastrophe weather.
Table below the graph shows the dollar margin per policy on this business by quarter to show the impact of seasonality.
The blue boxes show the auto margin for the fourth quarter for the last 5 years.
You can see that the $16 for 2014 is below 2012 and '13 but is in line with 2010 and '11.
There's obviously a story for every statistic underneath these numbers but this does show how seasonality can impact the results.
In addition to adjusting prices for the frequency increases we also closely watch severity levels.
On a paid basis bodily injury severity in the fourth quarter of 2014 was 6% higher than the prior year quarter.
We did not experience a similar increase in our estimates of ultimate incurred severity for BI but as always we'll continue to monitor these trends and adjust pricing to hit our return targets.
Moving on to Page 8.
Allstate brand homeowners increased by 29 000 policies from the prior year quarter.
Homeowner policy growth continues to be geographically focused in markets with adequate pricing and acceptable catastrophe exposure.
Both increased new business sales and higher customer retention led to the growth.
The chart on the bottom left shows the continued strength of homeowner profitability.
We earned $1.1 billion in homeowner underwriting income in 2014 despite paying $1.4 billion in catastrophe losses.
Combined ratio of 82.5 for the full year generated an acceptable long-term return on capital.
Moving to the lower right.
Annualized average premium shown in blue continued to increase although the rate of increase was lower than recent history reflecting improved returns.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy increased 3.3% to the prior year quarter.
Frequency performed below prior year in 2014 and the 7.7% increase we expect -- we experienced in paid severity in the year was due in part to a shift in the distribution of types of claims.
As the economy has improved we received fewer theft claims which tend to be less costly than the other homeowner perils we cover.
Like auto homeowner rate increases now are mostly intended to keep pace with trends and maintain margins.
Page 9 provides an overview of growth and profit trends for Esurance and provides more detail behind Tom's opening comments.
Starting on the left-hand side of the slide Esurance's rate of policy and total net written premium growth continues to slow due to ongoing pricing and underwriting actions underway to ensure long-term profitable growth as well as the increasing size of the business.
Total Esurance premiums grew by 15.5% in 2014 and policies in force grew 12.6% compared with 2013.
Spending on expansion initiatives contributed approximately 2.7 points to the Esurance expense ratio in 2014 masking a 1 point improvement in the underlying loss ratio from year-end 2013.
Page 10 provides an overview of growth and profit for Encompass.
Encompass policy in force growth illustrated by the red line in the chart on the left continues to slow reflecting actions taken to ensure acceptable long-term returns.
Average premium increases driven by profit improvement actions helped to increase premium as shown by the blue line.
As you can see on the right Encompass' fourth quarter 2014 recorded combined ratio of 93.1 improved sequentially from the previous 2 quarters as homeowner results benefited from less severe weather patterns.
Comparison to the prior year quarter was impacted by favorable loss development recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Encompass' trailing 12 months recorded combined ratio deteriorated to prior year primarily driven by catastrophes non-catastrophe-related weather and lower prior year reserve re-estimates.
The underlying combined ratio of 93.7 remained flat to prior year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Steve to cover Allstate Financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 11.
As we discussed last quarter our strategy is for Allstate Financial to become more integrated with the Allstate brand's customer value proposition.
Expanding Allstate customer relationships to Allstate Financial's products and services will further our agents' positioning as trusted advisers.
Allstate Financial results for the quarter and full year are highlighted on the top of this slide.
Premiums and contract charges declined by 8.3% in 2014 due to the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Excluding 2013 LBL results Allstate Financial grew premiums and contract charges by 2.8% over the prior year.
Operating costs declined by 17.5% or $99 million for the full year 2014 the result of actions to improve strategic focus and modernize the operating model.
Operating income for the year was $607 million 31.7% higher than 2013 when excluding the impact of the LBL disposition due primarily to strong limited partnership income lower expenses and profitable growth at Allstate Benefits.
The chart on the bottom of this page shows the change in reserves and contractholder funds from year-end 2007 to year-end 2014.
As you can see Allstate Financial's product liabilities have been reduced by over 50% since 2007 due to actions taken to reduce exposure to spread-based annuity products along with the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life.
Select estimated historical results for Lincoln Benefit Life are provided on our investor supplement to provide you with further context.
Shifting to investments on Slide 12.
Our total portfolio return on the top was 1.1% for the fourth quarter bringing total return for the full year 2014 to 5.8%.
You can see that the valuation impact varies from quarter to quarter primarily with changes in interest rates while the income yield has been relatively constant.
The lower half of the slide provides the investment income and yield for the Property-Liability in Allstate Financial portfolios.
The Property-Liability interest-bearing yield in the lower-left graph reflects the impact of duration shortening in 2012 and 2013 and ongoing investment in the current low-interest-rate environment.
The interest-bearing portfolios yield is close to current market yields and will respond more quickly to changes in interest rates as a result of this shorter maturity profile.
Moving to the Allstate Financial portfolio in the lower right.
The interest-bearing portfolio yield is higher and is more stable than the Property-Liability segment due to its longer duration and because portfolio cash flows had been used largely to fund reductions in our annuity obligations.
In addition total investment income reflects the impact of the LBL disposition in the second quarter of 2014 and the previously mentioned reduction in annuities.
Both the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolio total yields illustrate the variability in income that may result from limited partnership and other equity investments.
As we've discussed in prior quarters we expect these investments to increase returns in both portfolios but results may vary from period to period.
Slide 13 provides an overview of our capital position and shareholder returns as of year-end 2014.
We continue to be in a strong capital position a reflection of excellent earnings and a proactive approach to managing our balance sheet.
Book value per common share reached $48.24 increasing 6.5% since year-end 2013.
Operating income return on equity was 12.6% for the year reflecting the impact of lower operating income and a higher equity base.
Cash return to shareholders is shown in the upper-right graph.
Shareholders received cash returns of $368 million in the fourth quarter as we repurchased 251 million of common shares to the settlement of our second accelerated share repurchase program in open market purchases and paid $117 million in common stock dividends.
Total common shareholder cash returns for the year were $2.78 billion and included quarterly dividends to $750 million accelerated share repurchase programs and open market share repurchases.
As of December 31 2014 $336 million remained under the company's $2.5 billion share repurchase program authorized last February.
We expect to finish this program in the first quarter of this year.
Yesterday the board continued its practice of returning excess capital to shareholders by increasing the dividend and approving a new share repurchase program.
The common dividend was raised 7% to $0.30 per common share for the first quarter of 2015.
In addition a $3 billion share repurchase program was approved for execution through July 2016.
With $3.4 billion of invested assets at the holding company and a debt-to-capital ratio below 19% we have the financial capacity both to grow our businesses and execute these programs.
Now let's open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Josh Stirling from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So Tom I wanted to ask a question if I may about Esurance and Encompass and thinking about margins for the overall company driving some higher margins into these 2 smaller segments would seem to be some of your biggest levers for improving the combined -- overall combined ratios.
And I'm wondering if you can sort of walk us through a bit more detail what your targets are for these businesses some of the things you're doing to drive margins and if there's any specific challenges that we should understand because big picture it feels like these are things that ought to offer you higher margins than you're able to deliver.
Today you've got a mass affluent business at Encompass and obviously Esurance has got attractive direct economics.
But I'd really love to hear you walk through how you compare and contrast the long-term margin potential of both of these businesses and kind of what you're doing in both of them to get us there.
All right.
Well thank you Josh.
It's a good question.
I'll provide some overview and then I'll ask Kathy to talk a little bit about Encompass and Don to talk a little about Esurance.
First you're absolutely correct that those 2 businesses -- obviously the math shows you that they don't generate the same amount of underwriting income as we get from the Allstate brand and that is one of the reasons why we slowed the growth is we want to diversify our profit sources amongst those.
That said we have different opportunities in the 2 areas and we're investing differently in each of those.
So -- but let me first talk about -- the Allstate brand is also a growth opportunity as you can see from this quarter's results and we can get back into that later if other people have questions.
But I don't want people to feel like that's -- you saw we're adding agencies.
The growth is picking up across product lines so that's a good growth vehicle for us as well.
The combination of all 3 of those brands gives us really a way to compete aggressively with people on a whole variety of fronts.
And so managing those as a portfolio is important both from a go-to-market standpoint a strategic standpoint and obviously a financial standpoint.
As it relates to Encompass it is focused on the mass affluent.
We need to raise returns in both of the auto and property businesses.
The property business actually has a decent combined ratio relative to 100 but it doesn't have a good enough combined ratio relative to the returns we think it needs to have given the long-term volatility in that business.
It bumps around a little more in terms of its profitability than you would see in the Allstate brand because it is geographically concentrated east of the Mississippi rather than across the country so -- which sometimes confuses people as to why its results are down.
But it had obviously high catastrophe losses this year and they need to price for that.
And Kathy can talk about specifically what they're doing to improve profitability.
And as you would expect a by state and by line kind of issue for us because we run this -- we try to manage this business as we do our other businesses at a local level.
The Esurance story is slightly different.
That is a good growth opportunity.
We believe we can continue to pick up share in that business and we're willing to invest profitability from around the company to do that.
So if you look at our advertising expense it's relatively high compared to competitors in the direct space.
So you might see people spending about 10% in the direct space towards premiums on a sustainable basis.
We're in the high teens high end so we're okay investing that additional money to drive growth as long as we believe that the returns on a long-term basis are attractive because then it's just a math problem in terms of how the accountants count up the profitability.
We look at the cash returns on everything we do.
So we think the returns -- we know the returns are above our cost of capital but we think they can be better particularly when we compare them to what we're doing by state in the Allstate brand.
So Don and the Esurance team are working to both improve that underlying loss ratio and then manage the growth but the combination of those 2 has brought its growth down and we're starting to see the benefits to loss ratio so -- but Don can give you some specifics.
Kathy why don't we start with Encompass? And then let's go to Esurance.
Okay.
Thanks Josh for the question.
In terms of Encompass our goal this year is to return Encompass to a true underwriting profit so we took a number of actions.
We're always concerned about elasticity in this channel as we put rate and underwriting actions in.
If you look at retention for both auto and home it looks like we could have taken even stronger action and we're prepared to do that in 2015 because our retention held as we put rate into auto and somewhat into home.
The actions that we are taking are geared toward specific states that really have out-of-balance profitability challenges and we have 5 key states that really need strong underwriting and pricing action and that's already well underway.
In addition we're trying to reposition distribution to get to more profitable growth opportunities for Encompass.
So those actions are also going on simultaneously.
I think the biggest opportunity for us is to continue to have strong discipline on the underwriting side particularly in those problem states.
And so if -- I don't want to take too much time to go into detail but it's a multiple grouping of levers that we're trying to pull simultaneously to improve the profit for Encompass.
I think also it's safe to say that if you look at the amount of rate that we put into Encompass for the year in auto we took about 6.6% and I think there's opportunity to take even more in 2015 because our retention was actually up 1 point in auto.
Don? Josh let me see if I can just add a little bit of color to what Tom talked about as it relates to Esurance targets.
First we've been consistent since we put the companies together that our goal was to run the business in a way that it's economic over the lifetime of the policies that we're writing.
And the good news is it's nearly twice as large as it was when we bought it.
The bad news is as a result it had nearly twice the impact on the overall results and so it's more noticeable.
I would break the combined ratio into 2 pieces when you think about where we're headed with them the loss ratio and then kind of expenses.
The loss ratio showed a point or so improvement this year.
That's good.
We took a fair amount of rate.
We took some underwriting actions because the loss ratio was too high last year.
We're seeing it earn into the book.
There's more to come.
76.6 is not good enough.
We still have more work to do to get that number down.
I'd like to think over time we'll get another point or 2 out of that.
But the loss ratio is still a bit higher than it needs to be.
On the expense side it's a little bit of a different issue.
We're trying to balance how much advertising we spend money on so that we can generate what ends up being economically viable long-term growth.
And so it's a seasonal advertising spend.
It's a bit of a seasonal business.
We have quarters like the first quarter of last year where we spent an awful lot due to the Super Bowl and the launching of the campaign.
But when you look throughout the year Tom's right.
17.4 points is high but it's still resulting in an economic lifetime return for the business.
The other piece I wouldn't ignore because it's a big number is that there's a lot of expansion taking place.
So Esurance is in far more states.
It's got far more product with the bundled homeowners and motorcycles and renters policies and that is taking its toll on the expenses as well to the tune of about 2.7 points this year.
So when you put it together I think there's some room for improvement that I -- let me say it more affirmatively.
There's some expectation for improvement in the loss ratio.
But on the advertising and the growth expenses it's a balancing act and what we don't want to do is choke the growth on the business just to satisfy a GAAP ratio.
But we're conscious that it's impacting the company as Esurance continues to grow so we just have to balance it.
The bottom line is we're continuing to run the business on an economically correct basis.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's really comprehensive.
Just a -- sort of a short longer-term question.
Tom you mentioned big investments 1 of your 5 priorities to modernize the operating model.
I'm wondering if there's anything in particular that you'd like to talk about that we should be looking for that might drive margins over the next couple of years.
Or on the growth side I think you mentioned Answer Financial you give it some visibility here and then obviously you've been investing a lot in telematics and wondering if there's anything in particular we ought to be watching for for you guys to do over the next year.
Josh I think you should assume we will always invest in those things that are long term.
We have both the earning power and the capital to invest in things like telematics to try to figure out how to grow in the aggregated channel what we call Integrated Digital Enterprise which is about redoing our system with digitization and sort of straight-through processing.
Not such though that those get -- we assume we have to cover that for our shareholders -- cover that with our shareholders still deliver the profitability and invest for the future but we don't really have projections as to what that will do for either top line or the bottom line in the short term.
But know that we continue to invest for the long term because we recognize that if we don't do something today we might me unhappy 3 or 4 years from now.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could drill down a little bit further into the auto loss ratio in the fourth quarter.
You talked about Pat -- I think Pat you mentioned severe weather non-cat weather and frequency.
Can we get a little bit more idea of how much of each of those contributed and what exactly was the frequency driver on the -- or the driver on the frequency side? Mike thank you for the question.
Matt has been waiting anxiously for your question because he spent untold number of hours over the last really 3 months since we saw a tick-up in October.
So we were on this early and he can give you all the specifics.
Thanks Mike.
Otherwise I would feel like I had studied for the wrong question on a test.
So let me give you some background.
And first of all both Tom and Pat touched on it in their opening remarks.
First at a high-level look at the seasonality that we always see with a combined ratio in the fourth quarter and when you look at Page 7 of the presentation you'll see a fairly consistent spike in the fourth quarter.
You see it clearly in 2010 and 2011.
Recall that 2012 fourth quarter was Sandy so some of the trends that normally appear were masked that quarter in cat.
So there is some seasonality in the fourth quarter in the combined ratio.
That's one.
Second as I believe Pat mentioned and I believe it was also highlighted in the release when we talk about the uptick in frequency in the fourth quarter we noted that there was an uptick in 2 out of the 3 months.
It was an uptick in October and November that seemed to moderate and we had the December that was more in line with prior trends.
So we had a 2- out of 3-month tick-up.
Third point is what's driving it and what's not driving it.
Let me start with what's not driving it.
Number one we saw nothing to indicate that it's a quality-of-business issue or that it's being driven by growth which is a natural question that you would have since I hope some time during the call we talk about the growth we're achieving in the auto business.
And so with all that growth you question is this somehow related.
Well we looked at new to renewal ratios.
We looked at state mix ratio.
We looked at rating plan relativities and we saw nothing in there that would indicate that it was a quality-of-business or growth-related issue.
So what is it likely related to? Well we went back and looked historically over the last 7 to 8 years and a couple of things emerged.
First 2 factors traditionally drive PD frequency miles driven and precipitation especially precipitation during peak driving times.
Between those 2 miles driven has about roughly 3x the impact of precipitation.
Within miles driven the vast majority is driven by unemployment rate and a much smaller impact actually from gas prices.
So I know that people tend to think that it's driven by gas prices but really it's driven by economic activity and the improvement in unemployment rates.
In fact 11 of the last 12 years with lower unemployment rates saw higher miles driven and so we see a very very close correlation there.
On the BI side it was elevated.
Frequency was elevated but I would remind you that we had abnormally favorable results in the fourth quarter of '13 because there were more low-impact collisions last year due to winter weather.
So we had this dynamic last year PD was up 1.4 and BI frequency was down 1.7.
When you look at it over a 2-year basis and you take out some of that noise from prior year PD and BI are much more consistent.
PD is up 1.9 and BI up 2.2.
So we take all of that and we say "So what do we do with all of that?" Well what we do is what we do best as a company which is continue to manage margins effectively using our combination of a centralized system and a decentralized rate management system.
So we are taking our local market operating committee work looking at what's emerging on a state-by-state and geography-by-geography level and we take rate as needed.
I know some of you believe that we've moderated our rate actions.
I would just say that we stabilized our rate actions as we've gotten to the point where rates are more appropriate and we are in a better position to take smaller more stable more consistent rate as needed to follow trends and that's exactly what we're doing.
We're under no constraints.
We can take rate if indicated and if we need to.
And we will take rate if we need to and if the trends indicated.
But we've been fortunate that we've been able to take moderately consistent rates which has enabled us I think to compete more effectively with our peers.
So I think the system is highly efficient at maintaining margins.
I think we are reacting quickly.
I think we are I use a phrase appropriately paranoid.
I think we get paid to worry a lot and to focus intensely a lot but in no way are we panicked or in no way are we concerned that it's a quality issue and we'll continue to manage it the way we do and have done for many many years.
Research Division</strong> I mean I guess so the bottom line then is I mean from your perspective it sounds like you understand what happened and you're taking action to address it.
So there's not a third factor of why is this happening and what can we do about it that you're concerned about.
We're confident that we have analyzed this to death some might say.
We understand the drivers.
We understand the dynamics in the marketplace and we know how to use the levers available to us to react to it to maintain margins.
Which is why we committed to 87 to 89 for next year.
Research Division</strong> And then just one real quick one on capital.
Just looking at $3.4 billion in holdco capital this year it's up 20-ish percent from last year which is up considerably from the year before.
Without Lincoln Benefit there and kind of a more streamlined infrastructure how should we think about what that -- what you want that number to be on a go forward? And also just trying to reconcile too just a bit of a lighter buyback in the fourth quarter.
What was the thought process there just given that big capital chunk at the holdco? Yes.
Mike let me give you a -- start with the second one first and then Steve can give you some specifics on ASRs and the impacts.
So first as it relates to the share buyback the $2.5 billion that we're -- we'll be competing this first quarter you'll remember when we set that out there was $2.5 billion over 18 months and we'll clearly be done with it a lot sooner than that.
So we've been buying shares back aggressively and ahead of schedule because we have the capital both in the company and at the holding company level.
Steve can talk about the impact.
I know you had a question on the fourth quarter rate so he can help you sort through that piece.
And as it relates to holding company cap we think about capital for the whole company and we try to have -- to the extent the capital and the cash is at the holding company we have more flexibility with that.
So we have a process of having -- moving it up as often and frequently as we can.
If it needs to go down to a subsidiary like it has in the past then we do that.
If the subsidiaries are appropriately capitalized then we like to keep somewhere around $1 billion up there which covers a year's worth of dividends and interest payments so that if anything were to happen in the subsidiaries.
But we could obviously given our debt capacity run much lower than that and so if we had a use for that capital one way or the other we could run with very little cash at the holding company.
You want to talk about...
Yes.
So we execute our share buybacks a number of ways one open market purchases obviously.
A second that we've used the last couple of years are accelerated share repurchase programs and when you see the bumps between quarters it's generally because of the accelerated share repurchase buybacks.
Those are front-end loaded essentially.
So the particular one in the last half of the year we entered into after our second quarter earnings $750 million program provided 4.5 months of buyback for the investment bank that executed that for us.
So over that period of time in the third quarter you saw roughly $1 billion of buybacks.
In the fourth quarter you saw $250 million.
And that's because we gave the $750 million to the investment bank back at the beginning of the program.
They bought back.
They effectively gave us a significant portion of the stock they will buy back under that program over the next 4.5 months.
We recorded that in the third quarter.
And in the fourth quarter we just have a settle up which happened in mid-December which is about $100 million -- a little bit about $100 million and 1.6 million shares something like that.
That's why you saw such a low number in the fourth quarter.
Same phenomenon happened in the earlier in the year if you remember in the first quarter to second quarter.
Mike let me maybe provide some economic perspective.
Why would you use an accelerated share repurchase right? So what happens is Steve writes a check to the investment bank.
They give us a whole bunch of shares.
Those go off of the share count which obviously has an impact on your recorded shares which helps with operating earnings per share.
But that's not why we do it.
We do it because it's economic.
We don't do anything for bookkeeping around here.
We -- other than keep the books well as opposed to -- theyre looking at me like he's about to shoot me.
But we do it because we essentially sell off the volatility.
By entering into an ASR we can sell off of the volatility and we end up with a lower net economic cost of purchasing the shares.
Our next question comes from the line of Vinay Misquith from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So the first thing is Matt I think you studied for the correct test.
So the question is on the frequency on the personal auto curious as to whether you think this is an industry issue or something that just Allstate is seeing.
And as a follow-up to that how much of rate do you think you need to take to offset this higher frequency? Thanks Vinay.
First of all it's really impossible to compare Allstate's results to competitor results.
There's different books different geographic locations different starting points in history.
And remember a lot of what we're talking about is versus the prior year so we all started in different places.
So I can't talk about what other competitors might be experiencing and might not be and by what measures they are.
I can say that precipitation and unemployment rates are not Allstate peculiar issues.
They're environmental issues.
So they may impact competitors differently based upon our geographic footprint based upon where the precipitation occurred and based upon the books of business.
But they're not going to be related specifically to the company.
They're related to the general environment.
So I would expect that we would see some indications and we have.
I think most people have been attributing it to gas prices to the miles driven which I think is as I said earlier just a moderately important piece of this while I think the unemployment rate is more significant.
On the rate question we'll take as much rate as we need to maintain margins as is indicated in each geography as appropriate.
I don't tell you in advance because I don't know what will emerge.
But you look at our history you look at our quarterly history over the last many many years and we'll take rate as needed and we maintain margins.
We're quick to react.
We're fortunate in that our structure allows us to take rate quickly and it earns in quickly.
And as a result we don't have long-term dislocations between indications and reactions.
Vinay this is Tom.
To long-term trends I'd point out what Matt -- and reiterate what Matt just said.
If you look at our long-term profitability in auto insurance versus the industry we're obviously in the upper quartile of that.
There's about 3 companies that consistently make money.
If you look at the homeowners business the same thing is true it's a different group of companies and we were not in that category 10 years ago.
We are in that category now with about 3 companies that make most of the money.
And then if you look at fast-track results which is an industry thing over a long period of time we show improvements versus the industry so that supports that number.
And if you look at pricing versus our competitors Matt is exactly right.
Our numbers always look like low single digits in total obviously bounces around a lot by state.
Matt's had to take a lot of rate in.
Your question really if you ask Matt about Michigan he'll give you a different answer than if you ask him about Wisconsin.
The -- so -- but ours tend to be frequent and small.
Some of our other competitors particularly in the auto space bump around a little more than we do.
Research Division</strong> Sure thats helpful.
The second question is -- I was wondering if you could comment on Google's proposed entry into selling insurance online.
Would Allstate be willing to join that marketplace? Vinay I would say we're in that marketplace with the largest aggregator that there is today.
So Answer Financial is the largest at least as far as we know.
It's not really industry specific on that upper-right quadrant.
It's not like there's a specific industry study on that.
But Answer Financial does over $0.5 billion in premium for other companies.
A lot of it is done online through the web or through the call centers.
So it is -- it serves that self-serve aggregator customer which would be the people purportedly that Google would be attempting to -- they've been talking about doing that for some time.
We're in the marketplace.
It's not as big a market as you would see in the U.K.
and other places for a whole bunch of dynamics which is a longer conversation.
But I would say we're there and active.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> For the Allstate brand we've seen favorable acceleration of policy in force growth every quarter for the past several so I just wanted to confirm whether that trend will continue.
Let me have Matt deal with that because he's very happy that you asked the question and very happy with himself as am I.
Yes.
So thank you for noticing.
Look it's widespread and it's -- so we had -- we have 44 states that are growing year-over-year in IF growth and standard auto.
And what's interesting about it to us is it's driven almost equally now by new business and retention trends so it's about 50-50.
As you noted it's our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth and it's actually our 7th consecutive quarter-over-quarter increase.
So the trend line and the momentum is building.
I obviously can't tell you exactly how long that will continue.
That will depend upon a wide variety of factors.
I can tell you that the momentum engine is building.
We are -- we added a great number of agencies.
And despite the fact that we have probably 30% fewer agencies than we did 4 or 5 years ago we're at historical high levels of new business production.
That's because their productivity is at an all-time high.
Quote volumes are at an all-time high and close rates are dramatically better than they were.
So we see that momentum continuing to build as we have points of presence continuing to build and we have an aggressive growth and recruiting plan aggressive plans to add additional license sales professionals.
And we believe that the combination of that existing growth momentum with all the work we have underway with trusted advisor with deepening the relationships with bringing in the other -- the remainder of the product sets with bringing in life and retirement products consumer household products and truly managing all the risks for our customers and their households we believe that all of those factors will act synergistically to perpetuate that growth trend line.
So we're -- I'm bullishly optimistic on it but I cannot give you a time frame for how long it will continue at that quarter-over-quarter increase.
Jay I would also encourage everybody to think about growth on a broad basis.
So we tend to get into conversations about growth in auto because obviously it's our biggest line of business and the public comparisons are easiest to make between us and other people because that's there.
But if you look at -- Matt is -- the work that's in auto it's obviously great.
So we're growing as Matt said in a whole bunch of states.
Homeowners business is also growing as well and I think in 27 states Matt you're up in like 6 of the top 11 or something like that.
So he's -- they're -- you're starting to see that grow too.
So as you think about growth think about it from a customer standpoint which is selling auto homeowners other property lines which were up 2.1% last year.
So this is about building the relationship which also leads to sustainability.
Research Division</strong> Matt on the frequency issue you said that the frequency recovered in December.
Was that also the case in January? We just closed the month end.
Let's just say that obviously we were looking at it on the first...
An hourly basis.
We get claim counts daily so let's just say we looked at it.
We don't give out results but it didn't -- we did know what the numbers were before we committed to 87-89.
Let you know in May.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it doesn't seem -- I mean it seems like it was more of a 2-month split in 4Q rather than an ongoing basis.
I think I would focus on the point Matt made which is think of the system.
We have a system of adapting adjusting.
It's local.
It's centralized.
And whatever happens whether it's frequency severity mix of business we're about doing a good job for our customers and making sure our shareholders are well compensated for that.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And the last one is on the capital management plan.
So over the past 2 years it looks like the share count has been reduced as a result of buybacks by 6% to 7%.
It seems like that might even accelerate in 2015.
I'm just trying to get a sense of if you think about reducing the share count as a capital management goal consistent with the dollar amount of capital returned.
No we look at it on a dollar basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah DeWitt from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about your appetite to do a significant reinsurance deal on the homeowners business? And would you consider reinsuring a significant portion of the business or maybe even the whole thing given that reinsurance market conditions are increasingly favorable? And if so do you think you can find a counterparty for that? It's a good question.
As you know the -- we have number of sources of capital our own money which we get from shareholders.
We have capital we can get from reinsurers and increasingly a developing alternative source of capital called cat bonds or sidecars or a variety of other things.
And that market is growing quite rapidly.
There are a number of people who want to get into that market because the returns are uncorrelated with overall market returns.
And so we see that growing.
That capital has been coming in at a lower cost of capital than provided to us by external sources.
So we've been actively using that.
Steve you did a -- what was the size of the cat bond this year? 2014 was just under $1 billion in total.
So we did a cat bond this year because we thought it was cheaper than traditional reinsurance.
We have looked at replacing some of our own capital with third-party capital.
We look at that all the time.
It just -- it's whether you use preferred stock or common stock or third-party alternative capital.
We have a number of requirements that we have on that which have not yet been resolved in terms of how to do it.
But I can tell you that we continue to look at it quite aggressively.
Those requirements are -- we need some stability in our pricing on behalf of our customers.
We don't want to be out in the market every year trying to find $2 billion $3 billion $4 billion worth of capital and what are we going to charge our customers for it and have to run that through prices.
Secondly it has to meet our economic standards that it's a good trade for us.
And then thirdly there's a whole bunch of what I would just say legal accounting hurdles one has to get through so that it's displayed in the reported financials the way the economics are set up.
Sometimes things show up as derivatives and stuff like that and it just makes everybody's life more confusing because the financial structure doesn't show you the economics of that which we got.
So we're hard at work at it.
I don't -- I think this is one of those things that develops over time.
I think it is -- there's optionality in terms of our ability to further improve our return on capital and -- but the -- I think the biggest driver will be if we can take some volatility out of the P&amp;L that should reduce our cost of capital.
So if you look at the cost of capital for the auto insurance business it would be lower than the cost of capital for the homeowners business.
To extent Steve can find a way to access alternative capital reduce volatility maybe even reduce some of the capital we have in the business that should not only free up capital Sarah.
It should also improve our PE.
So we're hard at work on it.
I don't think you expect to see anything in the short term because it is a complicated problem.
But if there's -- we are spending a lot of time on it.
Research Division</strong> And if you could find the capital how much of the homeowners business would you want to reinsure versus retain? All depends on the price.
Our final question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> Pension $700 million swing on penalty to AOCI so book value didn't grow.
Maybe you could walk through -- I assume it's interest rates that drove that addition.
And what -- did you use a year-end sort of interest rate compass? Or were you able to take advantage of the increased knowledge of yields coming down higher in 2015? I guess the question is do we look at another hit like this coming next year if rates stay where they are.
So I'll keep -- this is Steve.
I'll keep this simple for you.
The -- at the end of the year we mark our pension liabilities to the current interest rate discount -- what we call the discount rate liabilities at 12/31.
So the discount rate this year-end 12/31/2014 was almost the same as it was 2 years ago.
So what happened is we got a benefit in 2013 and we gave it back at the end of 2014.
Secondly we alone with every other public company I believe are adopting new mortality assumptions that the Society of Actuaries issued in October.
So that for financial reporting purposes increased our liability also.
You will -- we will -- we have not and we will not put that in their actual employee calculations until the IRS adopts that same program probably in a couple of years.
Those are the 2 principal changes you saw.
The Society of Actuaries change -- I don't remember when was it was last changed the mortality assumptions but it was well more than a decade ago.
Research Division</strong> 6% or 7%.
Yes it's a decade ago.
More than a decade ago.
So that happens every decade or so.
The discount rate changes every year.
So if rates go down at the end of next year you'll have another increase.
If rates go up you'll get a benefit like we did in 2013.
Bob if you'll remember...
Research Division</strong> And -- go ahead I'm sorry.
You remember last year we changed our pension benefits and put them all everybody into the same plan which had a substantial benefit to the balance sheet and ongoing operating.
Research Division</strong> Any implications to funding for 2015 cash flow? Nothing other than normal funding considerations we would consider the normal cost of the plan.
And over time with this mortality assumption change we'll probably have to fund more in the plan potentially given the investment returns we get in the assets.
So let me close with 4 thoughts: So our strategy focusing on the unique value propositions is working.
The Allstate Agency business has excellent prospects for profitable growth.
Our business model being in all 4 segments is working as is the ability to have a broad product portfolio.
We're seeing some of our competitors take similar -- try to do what we have built.
Secondly we are delivering sustainable growth and profitability.
That's our operating expertise.
The process is our culture of adapting.
Third we give outstanding cash returns to shareholders.
And lastly we are financially in an extremely strong position which gives us the resources.
We obviously have the will and the ability to continue to compete effectively.
So thank you much.
I will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Pat Macellaro Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Allstate's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and myself we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday we issued our news release and investor supplement filed our 10-Q for the first quarter and posted the slides we'll use this morning.
we also posted a document describing our 2015 country-wide excluding Florida reinsurance program.
These are all available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our discussion today may contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2014 the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and in our investor supplement.
We are recording the call and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
And I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Good morning thank you for investing your time with us.
I'll begin with an overview of our results on Slide 2.
Then Pat and Steve will go through the results in detail.
Also here to engage with you are Matt Winter Allstate's President also the leader of our Allstate branded operations; Don Civgin the President of Emerging Businesses; Kathy Mabe who leads Business to Business in Encompass; Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
So let me begin with the strength of our strategy is really evident in this quarter's results.
We have a broad-based business model that serves a wide range of customers with a broad range of products.
What that does is it enables us to generate profitable growth despite a changing economic and competitive environment.
Our results reflect progress on all 5 operating priorities for 2015 which are to grow while maintaining the underlying combined ratio practically manage the $80 billion investment portfolio and invest for sustainable value creation.
Our position in multiple customer segments insurance products geographies and investments enables us to continue meeting our short and long-term commitment to shareholders our customers our agency owners and employees as well as local communities.
If you turn to Slide 3 you can see the financial outcomes of our performance in the first quarter of 2015.
We continue to build growth momentum by adding 875 000 policies over the last 12 months and now reaching $34.4 million.
When combined with price increases this resulted in net written premium growth of 4.8% the benefit of a segmented approach to the market was evident as growth continued to accelerate in the Allstate brand which gave us room to slow growth in the Esurance and Encompass businesses given our economic targets for those 2 businesses.
The recorded combined ratio was 93.7 which was better than last year.
This decline reflected lower catastrophes which also shows the benefit of having a diversified product portfolio as an uptick in the Allstate brand auto combined ratio to 96.8 in the first quarter was offset by an Allstate brand homeowners combined ratio of 78.7.
Esurance and Encompass; they're still making progress on improving value creation and the results still need to improve.
When you take out the volatility associated with catastrophes and reserve changes you can see that the underlying combined ratio deteriorated slightly but within the full year range of 87 to 89.
This level of profitability does include expenses which build long-term value such as growing Esurance and investing in long-term growth platforms and I'll talk about that in just a minute.
Investment results were good when adjusted for the reduction of asset due to the sale of Lincoln Benefit Life in the second quarter of last year.
Our proactive approach to investing to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns not just operating income continue to benefit our overall results and we had strong results from limited partnerships which offset the impact of reducing interest rate risk in the fixed income portfolio.
We also had really good results from a more focused but smaller Allstate Financial.
Total net income was $648 million in the quarter $1.53 a share as you can see in the box at the top of that slide.
Operating income was $1.46 per share which was 12.3% higher than the same quarter last year which reflected both higher income and fewer shares outstanding.
The first quarter Property-Liability results for each customer segment are shown on Slide 4.
I'm just going to comment on the circled numbers in each segment starting with the Allstate brands in the lower left which serves of course customers that prefer local advice in a branded offering.
Policy In Force growth accelerated across all products as Matt's team pursues a comprehensive and fully integrated growth plan.
The underlying combined ratio for this business which represents 90% of our total premiums written was 87.4 in the quarter.
Esurance in the lower right focuses on customers who prefer a self-serve approach but want a branded offering.
Policy growth slowed to 8.9%.
The underlying combined ratio of $116.5 million included advertising expenses which are being made to grow share and the costs associated with expanding the product offering and the geographic reach.
As a result we look at the underlying loss ratio which was 78.2 in the first quarter which still needs to be lowered.
Moving to the customer segment that prefers local advice but is brand neutral which is in the upper left that's the segment that we serve with our Encompass business.
This business got marginally smaller in first quarter as we seek to improve profitability.
So as a management team we're committed to both delivering these current results as well as investing in sustainable value creation as shown on Slide 5.
While these items on this page all had a negative impact on current quarterly earnings they are an important driver to shareholder value.
So therefore we're completely committed to them.
We made good progress in modernizing our operating model.
We also continued laying the foundation to reducing low value added activities handled by Allstate Agencies while increasing their ability to provide trusted advice to customers.
Since acquiring Esurance in 2011 we've grown market share by repositioning the brand expanding its geographic footprint and its product offerings and supporting this with advertising investments that are higher than justified by current premium levels.
We continue to invest in share growth as long as lifetime returns on new customers exceed our cost to capital.
We are also seizing the opportunity that comes with connecting customers to telephony by expanding our telematics offering.
We now have over 0.75 million customers using Drivewise and DriveSense.
We are also innovating our roadside service operating model which has over 3 million members in the -- under the Allstate brand and many millions more under our weight [ph] label offerings.
So in summary our goal is to both deliver today and build for tomorrow.
And now let me turn it over to Pat to go through the Property-Liability results in more detail.
Thanks Tom.
I'll begin by reviewing our Property-Liability results on Slide 6.
Starting with the chart on the top of this page Property-Liability had earned premium of $7.4 billion in the first quarter of 2015 5.1% higher than the first quarter of 2014.
Recorded combined ratio of 93.7 was a 1.0 lower than the prior year quarter driven by catastrophe losses of $294 million which were 33.9% lower than the prior year quarter.
The underlying combined ratio of 89 was 6/10 of a point higher than the first quarter of 2014.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment increased 14.7% from the first quarter of 2014 due primarily to strong limited partnership returns in the quarter.
As a result Property-Liability operating income in the first quarter was $555 million 18.6% higher than the first quarter of 2014.
The Chart on the lower left shows Net Written Premiums and Policy In Force growth rates for Allstate Protection.
The red line representing Policy In Force growth shows the continued positive policy growth trend that is being driven by the Allstate brand.
Policies In Force grew by 875 000 or 2.6% from the first quarter of 2014.
The Allstate brand accounted for 86% of policy growth in the first quarter of 2015 based on the strength of Auto Homeowners and Other personal lines.
Total premium grew 4.8% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period last year reflecting the combination of policy and average premium increases.
Exhibits to the right of this chart displays the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratio trends.
You can see the recorded first quarter combined ratio was lower than the historical first quarter average and below the first quarter of 2014 due to lower catastrophe losses.
Total underlying combined ratio of 89 was more in line with the historical trend and was impacted by higher auto losses in the first quarter of 2015 versus the prior year quarter.
Page 7 highlights Allstate brand Auto growth and margin trends.
Growth trends are highlighted in the top or in the chart on the top.
Policies increased by 623 000 in the first quarter of 2015 or 3.2% higher than the first quarter of 2014 driven by continued broad-based increase in new business and stable retention trends.
Auto items In Force grew in 42 states in the first quarter of 2015.
Net written premium grew 5.7% as average premiums increased by 2.3% over the prior year quarter.
The chart on the lower left shows the past 3 years' quarterly recorded and underlying margin performance for Allstate brand auto.
The recorded combined ratio was 96.8 in the first quarter of 2015 3.4 points worse than the first quarter of 2014 and the underlying combined ratio was 95.6 in the first quarter 1.8 points higher than the prior year quarter.
Further details are shown in the chart on the bottom right.
Annualized the average earned premium per policy shown by the blue line continue to increase over the prior year in the first quarter.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy shown by the red line increased 4.1% in the first quarter compared with the first quarter of 2014 and was impacted by 3 separate drivers.
First Allstate brand prior year auto reserve re-estimates were unfavorable.
About half of the impact is due to litigation settlement accruals on older cases while the rest is driven by variations in reserving.
Second bodily injury frequency increased 6.8% compared with the first quarter of last year.
The increase is explained partially by comparisons to a very favorable quarter of BI frequency in the first quarter of 2014.
But it also reflects higher frequency experience across our book of business.
Third property damage frequency increased 2.1% in the first quarter compared with the prior year quarter.
This increase is due in part to adverse winter weather in the eastern part of the country.
But again we're also seeing higher PD frequency this year than we did for most of last year.
You may recall that we did experience elevated property damage frequency in last year's first quarter due to widespread winter weather when we look at bulk coverages over a multiyear period the trends across as BI and PD are very consistent.
As you'd expect we've continued to dig into the drivers of increased frequency since the trends began to emerge in the fourth quarter of last year.
Leverage our data and analytic capabilities to continuously analyze our business from the macro level down to the micro segments that our local teams used to underwrite in price.
Some examples of items we've been investigated include the impact of new to renewal loss ratio relativities often referred to as the new business penalty form writing higher volumes in new business state mix and geographic mix within states higher growth books of business versus stable or moderately growing books monoline versus multiline liability only versus full coverage and quality characteristics such as insurance score driver age and household composition.
Based on our analysis we continue to be comfortable with the quality of both our new and renewal business.
This analysis also reinforces our conclusion that recent frequency fluctuations are due primarily to macroeconomic trends in weather.
And that while we believe industry-wide auto frequency will continue its long-term downward slope overtime there will be periods of variability within that trend that are driven by external factors.
Our regional teams have been quick to identify these developing trends on a local market basis and have taken and will continue to take appropriate underwriting and pricing actions to achieve our targeted returns.
Given current trends we expect the level of underwriting changes and rate increases to accelerate.
Improved rate increases in April of 2015 exceed that of the entire first quarter of 2015.
The result of our regional teams adjusting the timing and the amount of rates that were already planned in the year.
We do not believe these actions to maintain margins will materially impair current policy growth trends.
Moving to page 8.
Let's discuss Allstate brand homeowners.
Growing homeowners in parts of the country that are adequately priced and have acceptable exposure to catastrophes.
Policy growth is being driven by both increased new business and improved retention.
The chart on the bottom left shows the continued strength of homeowner profitability and the earnings benefit we experienced in the first quarter of 2015 from having a diversified product portfolio.
Recorded combined ratio was 78.7 for the first quarter of 2015 and the underlying combined ratio of 64.5 improved by 1.3 points from the first quarter of 2014 Moving to the lower left annualized average premiums shown in blue continues to improve the slowing rate versus the recent history reflecting improved returns.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy were essentially flat to the prior year quarter.
Non-catastrophe frequency in the first quarter of 2015 was 7.9 points below the prior year quarter and the 6.6% increase experienced in paid severity was due to the claim count mix.
Individual homeowners severity parallels are performing within expected ranges.
Page 9 provides an overview of growth and profit results for Esurance and Encompass.
Starting on the upper left of the slide Esurance's rated policy and total network and premium growth continues to slow due to ongoing pricing and underwriting actions underway to ensure long-term profitable growth as well as the increasing size of the business.
Total Esurance premiums grew by 8.9% in the first quarter policies in force grew 8.6% compared with the first quarter of 2014.
Esurance profitability shown in the upper right chart was impacted by higher claim frequency and higher severity on collision and property damage.
Esurance's expense ratio decreased 10.7 points in the first quarter of 2015 compared with the prior year quarter given last year's first quarter spend to reposition the brand.
Spending on expansion initiatives contributed approximately 2.8 points to the Esurance's expense ratio in the first quarter compared with 2 points in the first quarter of 2014.
Encompass policy in force growth illustrated by the gray line in the chart on the bottom left fell to negative 2/10 due to lower new business and lower retentions the result of ongoing profit improvement actions.
Decline in policies also impacted net written premiums which is 1.4% lower in the first quarter of 2015 compared with the first quarter of 2014.
Encompass' first quarter recorded combined ratio of 95.6 improved by 7 points primarily driven by lower catastrophe losses.
And now I'll turn it over to Steve to cover Allstate Financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Pat.
Slide 10 provides an overview of Allstate Financial.
As we've discussed previously we strategically repositioned Allstate Financial over the last several years to focus its business on Allstate brand customers.
The most recent action was to sell Lincoln Benefit Life and further integrate the life business into the Allstate brand value proposition.
Allstate Financial results for the first quarter are highlighted in the bottom of the slide.
Premiums and contract charges increased 2.9% when compared to first quarter of 2014 results excluding LBL.
Growth was driven primarily by increased additional life insurance renewal premiums Allstate benefit accident and health insurance business.
Allstate Benefits now has 3.2 million policies in force making it a major player in the voluntary workplace benefits business.
Operating income for the first quarter was $134 million 13.5% lower than the first quarter of 2014 after adjusting for the disposition of Lincoln Benefit Life.
This reduction in operating income was driven primarily by lower investment income related to prepayment fees and litigation settlements and higher life mortality and expenses than the prior year first quarter.
Moving to investments in the chart at the top of the Slide 11.
Our portfolio total return was 1.7% for the first quarter.
The components of the total return continue to show that the income yield remains consistent while the valuation impact varies from quarter-to-quarter.
Most recently being driven by reductions in interest rates since year end 2014.
Our portfolio valuations have not been materially impacted by lower energy prices as the majority of our assets with exposure to the energy sector are investment-grade corporate bonds which are currently in an unrealized gain position.
The lower half of the slide provides the investment income in yield for the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios.
The Property-Liability interest-bearing yield in the lower left graph reflects the impact of prior duration shortening and ongoing investments in a low interest-rate environment.
The interest-bearing portfolios yield is close to current market yields and is expected to respond more quickly to changes in interest rates as a result of its shorter maturity profile.
Moving to the Allstate Financial portfolio in the lower right.
The interest-bearing portfolio yield is higher and more stable than the Property-Liability segment due to its longer duration and its cash flows being used largely to fund annuity reductions.
The drop in investment income primarily reflects the LBL disposition and the aforementioned reduction in annuities.
Total first quarter limited partnership income was 39% higher than the same period last year helped by a strong quarter for our real estate investments.
Economic conditions and high liquidity levels have contributed to favorable market performance which is reflected in strong limited partnership results in both portfolios.
As you can see from the charts limited partnerships and other equity investments bring a higher degree of variability to our income while more volatile we expect these investments to increase returns in both portfolios over the long-term.
Slide 12 provides an overview of our strong capital position and excellent shareholder returns at the end of the first quarter.
During the quarter we returned $1 billion in cash to common shareholders through a combination of common dividends and share repurchases.
We completed our 2014 2.5 billion common share repurchase authorization in February by initiating new $3 billion authorization.
A $500 million accelerate repurchase program was executed in March which should be completed by mid-June.
As of March 31 we had $2.4 billion remaining on our current repurchase authorization which is expected to be completed by July 2016.
We provide additional information on our share repurchase activities this quarter in the chart on the right.
In the table under the chart you can see the impact of accelerated share repurchase initiations and settlements for each of the past 9 quarters.
We have also posted an explanatory document on ASRs our Investor Relations website this morning.
Yesterday afternoon we communicate the details of our 2015 catastrophe reinsurance program excluding Florida.
We rolled our expiring nationwide contract in a similar to lower-cost agreements and added approximately $300 million of coverage for growth in our business.
As in prior years I challenged our team to push the envelope a bit.
You will see this year's program race through the historic 3-year duration of traditional reinsurance with 2 7-year 2 limit multi-pillar reinsurance covers to provide further stability in our business for our customers.
We expect to place our Florida program in the second quarter.
And we'll communicate details at that time.
Now let's open up the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Josh Stirling from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to start off with a question about growth.
You guys have nicely increased your production coming from the core agency channel over the past few years.
And there's a bunch of different things that have been going on you talked about new younger agents coming into sort of freshen the footprint also invest in developing agency management strategies and in cross-selling.
And now you're talking a bit about the sort of evolving the -- how you run agencies to focus more on higher value-added advisory relationships.
And I was kind of trying to figure out -- map I was trying to go through an exercise in my mind of mapping the improving production that you're actually seeing with some of the things you've been trying to do.
And I was curious if you could help us sort of walk through is this your initiatives playing out? Or is this more a function of your willingness now to write more homeowners and basically having gone through a period of reunderwriting and now kind of having easy comps? Good morning Josh.
Thank you for the question.
Matt will take you through some of the specifics.
It's a good question because it really gets to the substance of that which we are doing which is our strategy is comprehensive but it's designed to support profitable growth in any environment.
And oftentimes we might get into an environment where costs are going up and we have to raise prices everybody thinks that it's all about price.
And it is currently price is very -- obviously very important but Matt has a much more comprehensive program than that.
Good morning Josh and thanks for the question.
As you correctly pointed out we have seen some nice growth overall in the business both on the auto and the homeowners side.
We've also seen growth in the consumer household goods and we're beginning to see some growth in the life and retirement space as well.
We don't believe that it's any one particular item that's led to that.
As Tom mentioned we really -- the entire team views this as one complex system and we try to pull multiple levers on that system and have multiple influences on it that feed off of each other as most self-generating systems do.
So what we're doing now is a function of trying to improve -- we use the phrase bandwidth and efficiency -- so we're trying to lay more pipe and improve the efficiency and productivity of that pipe.
So we're adding a lot of agencies and we're adding agencies in a strategic manner.
Not just allowing them to grow and develop wherever they want but to thoughtfully pick geographic areas that have been underpenetrated in the past and attempt to recruit in a more targeted way.
So that would include some areas that historically we've shied away from; some of the more non-urban areas some of the heartland the middle of the United States some of the rural areas.
And we're approaching that in a fairly thoughtful way using a bunch of different tools including our regular agency system.
But we're also using our Allstate auto dealer program which enables us to put Allstate Agencies inside of auto dealerships.
We're also using selective independent agency expansion in some of those rural areas to maximize our points of presence around the United States.
And then we're doing a tremendous amount of work to improve the productivity efficiency and effectiveness of those agents once they are there.
And that includes some of the Trusted Advisor work you referred to where we're trying to take away some of the low value-added work that distracts them doesn't add value to the customer and just eats up agency time.
We're trying to use data analytics emerging technologies as well as centralized support services to pull those out of the agencies free them up for more value-added advice consultation and service on coverage options; and enable them to really do what we think that we have as our competitive advantage which is to have a local advisor in the community who actually knows about those customers can counsel them appropriately and form a relationship-based business not just a transactionally based business.
The last thing I'll point out on our growth is that while Tom said and correctly it's not all about price it is to some extent driven by our competitiveness and the way we approach the market.
And that's not just agent behavior that's not just our points of presence but that includes the rest of the system that includes our marketing effectiveness our lead generation capabilities our ability to offer all the products those customers need; not turning any customers away and letting them go to other companies for one of those products.
So that's where the homeowners -- opening up homeowners and expanding our product portfolio and including life and retirement comes in.
It allows us to serve the customers holistically say yes to more customers and not turn many away.
It's where our new rating plans which provide a -- through broadening the target -- allow us to offer a more competitive price to a broader group of customers coming in.
So I would say that the growth that we've achieved is a product of all of those factors not any one in particular not any one in isolation.
It's one of the reasons that we feel confident that this sustainable growth and will continue because it's not based upon one lever it's based upon the system really functioning very effectively as a system.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great Matt.
Maybe just a quick question on margin expansion in Encompass and Esurance.
I'm wondering if you guys could talk and give us a little bit more sort of the color the back stories sort of what's creating the opportunities here? And then help us understand to sort of to what long-term sort of goals you're trying to drive these 2 businesses to? I mean when you look at public comps people make more money and attract business if you're larger and more mature and people make more money at a high net worth business than you do.
And I'm wondering if you could long-term drive for these 2 franchises to have profitability to be in line with the core Allstate channel? Let me make an overview comment then Don and Kathy can say.
I would say what gives the opportunity as you appropriately classified it is that it's not good enough.
So we have some work to do there.
The -- but they're different stories right.
So Esurance we would like to continue to pick up share in that segment.
So we continue to invest ahead of where other competitors would invest in terms of advertising as a percentage of revenues.
We could obviously make that business profitable by shutting down advertising and growth and we're choosing not to do that because we want to grow in that segment.
The Encompass segment is a different story.
It's much more competitive because you're inside the agency.
So you have to be more careful as to how you grow there and so it's different set of stories.
We're not explicitly seeking to invest in growing share [indiscernible] we're investing to get profitable growth.
So Don and Kathy maybe you can give a quick answer to those 2.
Yes Josh.
As far as the insurance goes I think we've been very consistent since we put the company together that our goal is to run the business in a way that's economically attractive over the lifetime value of the business we're writing.
That then tends to take out this accounting anomaly of the advertising which because of the direct model gets expensed immediately in the quarter it's spent even though it's designed to build value over the lifetime.
So when you look at that equation of running the business on economic value I think you have to breakout loss ratio and I'll say advertising expense separately.
On the loss ratio we still have room to grow.
That's what I said last quarter too we saw similar trends to the Allstate brand in the first quarter.
And so we are also accelerating rate increases and taking underwriting actions and there is a need to improve the loss ratio in the Esurance brand over the course of this year.
On the advertising side it's a little bit more complicated.
As Pat pointed out in his opening comments there tends to be volatility from quarter-to-quarter.
Part of it is cyclicality but part of it is what we're trying to accomplish.
so last year in the first quarter we spent a lot of advertising dollars because we were repositioning the brand.
This year we spent less.
That you see in the expense ratio going down a little over 10 points.
We still ran the awareness ads in the Super Bowl in fact we ran 2 of them but we didn't heavy up afterwards like we did last year because of repositioning.
So when we talk about running at -- running Esurance on an economic value basis that includes advertising.
So on a year-over-year basis we continue to look at what the right amount is to make sure that the business we're writing is profitable.
But you'll continue to see some variation from quarter-to-quarter.
Josh this is Kathy Mabe.
Thanks for the question on Encompass.
You can see from the investor supplement that we're starting really lean into rates you can see it on Page 13.
But keep in mind a lot of our rate actions come -- will come midyear and in fourth quarter for Encompass.
Part of what you're seeing I think the best way to tell the stories on Page 18 of the investor supplement.
And you can see that we made progress on the underlying combined ratio by about a point but there is a lot more work to do.
From a policies in force perspective we're about flat with where we were a year ago.
And what's driving the net written premium change is the change in mix as we really put strong action in a couple of highly unprofitable states which have high average premiums and redirect growth to more profitable states which have lower average premiums.
These actions combined will allow us to position Encompass for long-term success.
So we're not looking at just short term measures but how do we reposition -- as Matt talked about -- reposition the channel for long-term profitable growth.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I remain pretty confident that you guys know what you're doing on pricing and will keep the margins within your targeted level on auto.
I'm less confident that you could continue to grow PIF at the current rate.
In fact you said I think in your script that you don't think the PIF growth will be materially negatively impacted.
Where are we in the environment on pricing at Geico's commentary in Q1.
I think it's helpful they're are going to be taking rate actions.
Do you feel like you're with the field at the rate actions you're taking? Or maybe pushing ahead little bit and may lose some PIF momentum? Bob I think in terms of your level of confidence and the level of our confidence the first thing you have to get through is this our problem or is this everybody's problem? If it's our problem then obviously the actions we take will be different and the impact on shareholder value and long-term value creation is different then it's everybody's problem.
If it's everybody's problem then the actions we take and the impact on both growth profitability customer satisfaction ability to expand agencies is completely different.
So we feel like this is at this point everybody's problem.
Matt can help you understand why we believe that's the case.
And if you look at the relative amount of increases necessary to account for increased cost of auto insurance and that's all that we're talking about in this particular case is auto insurance not the broad portfolio we have.
If you're just talking about auto insurance it's relatively small dollars when it comes to amount per customer per year.
Yes.
Bob it's Matt.
Let me expand a little bit on what Tom just said.
As we talked about last quarter actually the frequency pressure is a combination of miles driven and weather.
And I believe I said last quarter we thought that miles driven was about 3x as influential as the weather that pattern seems [indiscernible] pulled up again this quarter.
But we want to validate that and verify it and as Pat referred to in his opening remarks we did a very intense deep dive into our business to ensure that the increases in the frequency we're seeing are proportional and consistent across multiple segments of the business no matter how you cut it.
To make sure in effect that these aren't our problems but are in fact external.
And so we looked at new and renewal business we looked higher growth states versus lower growth states.
We looked across quality characteristics.
We looked across driver age household composition insurance scores full coverage versus liability across different rating plans to see whether or not perhaps the rating plans had influenced it.
And all of that review has showed that this trend is externally driven primarily by miles driven.
And then we wanted to validate that.
And so we've looked at external data on miles driven.
And miles driven February year-to-date was 3.9% above prior year.
The 12-month moving average on miles driven is 2.8% above the 5-year average.
So we see it from external data.
And then we're fortunate because we keep our Drivewise device in the car for an extended period of time.
We're able to look at that data on an ongoing basis.
And so we have our own specific proprietary data that shows miles driven up a consistent amount to what we see in external data sources.
So we validated it with our internal data we validated it with external data.
And then we looked at other sources to ensure that that in fact is true.
And I switched my reading material.
If you look at CollisionWeek Magazine that periodical it reported January production for the auto body repair industry was 6.8% higher than January of 2014.
That's a huge increase for increased activity in body shop.
So we looked at that and then we looked on the weather side.
And for those of you in the Northeast you experienced most of this.
You experienced winter storm Juno.
You saw the coldest February ever recorded in Connecticut and Upstate New York.
You saw the second coldest February on record in New York.
You saw 200 car pileups in Michigan in January one of the largest on record.
And so we saw precipitation increases and freeze increases in the first quarter that were pretty much unprecedented.
So you look at all of that and you come to the conclusion that in fact this is an external trend.
So given that it's an external trend we believe that our competitors will react to it the same way we will react to it.
I don't think they will react to it with a level of sophistication and granularity we might or in the exact same ways but they will have to react to the trends.
As I mentioned in my earlier response competitiveness is not just rate.
But if you do look at rate we saw the auto insurance CPI up 5.9% for March.
5.9% up from February CPI of 5.6% and the 2014 full year auto insurance CPI of 4.2%.
So the average premiums paid by customers has been steadily increasing.
Then we look at [ph] and we look at competitor rate increases and we believe we're going to be part of the path taken by rates.
So as a result it's going to come down to execution and not just execution on how we take rate and how carefully we do it but how we execute on the rest of the system all those other factors; trusted advise from agents service product design excellent claim service effectiveness of our advertising the productivity and efficiency in the agencies their ability to close the business quickly and we feel confident.
I feel very confident that the team will manage through this.
I like this kind of competition.
I think we are very well-suited to deal with it effectively and rise to the top of it.
So it does not concern us.
Bob let me add something on top of that.
First it's not one product and it's not one market.
So -- because we have a couple of competitors where you can see their results and they are one-product companies we end up tending to focus on just auto.
We have a broad-based growth plan as Matt talked about earlier.
And so I just want to double-underline what he said earlier which is broad-based.
Secondly it's not just one market like because we report the numbers on a countrywide basis we tend to have that conversation there but that's not the way the business has been run.
So there are many markets.
So if you look at the top 11 states 6 of them are growing at higher than 3% but that also means that 5 are growing at less than 3% in fact 4 of them are kind of hovering around 0 I think Matt.
So you're -- we don't have to react.
We don't react across the country we react to every local market.
And so the results you see reflect what we've been doing for the last couple of years.
And they will reflect the way we go forward in the future.
Our next lesson comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> And to just follow up on Bob's question.
Just in terms of the action plan you're taking on pricing side to mitigate some of the impact of rising loss cost trend I'm wondering when you -- like how much price increase you need to have? And in that price increase like do you forecast any further rising in terms of the mileage driven? And also like in terms of time how soon can you get pricing into the system and stay [indiscernible] on the others? And then like I just wonder going -- are we going to see continued high level like combined ratio than you desired over the next few quarter as you are taking these pricing actions? Thanks Kai for the question.
It's Matt again.
So I think as we pointed out in the Q I'm sorry in the Investors sup on Page 13 footnote 9 April rates actually exceeded that of the entire first quarter.
So it does take us a while to begin to implement the rate increases.
It's a process.
We have to recognize the trend we have to do the filing.
We have to do a careful thoughtful approach to it to make sure we minimize the potential impact on growth and retention.
And then we institute as quickly as possible.
So this quarter showed a fairly low-level of filed and approved rates.
It doesn't mean it showed us a low-level of activity because you can't see the activity.
And you -- that's one of the reasons we point out the April rate.
I would say that we are accelerating some of the rate that had been planned for the rest of the year.
But overall the levels are not something that I think will shock the system.
Where rate is not our only lever on managing loss cost.
We look at things like our underwriting guidelines.
We have correct class programs to make sure we're getting paid the appropriate price for the risk that we're taking on.
And so -- and we have expenses.
And we will continue to manage all those levers to ensure our combined ratio stays within an appropriate range so that we earn an appropriate return on the business.
I can't predict where miles driven are going to go or where weather is going to go or what the unemployment rates are going to look like over the next several months or year.
I can say that we have a very good handle on the trend.
We have a system that's designed just for this in mind because it's a decentralized rate taking system that looks at each individual geography and manages rate taking by that local geography.
And so we're on it and we will continue to preserve margins.
Let me make sure you really focused on it.
There was a statement Matt made in there which I want to make sure you're really focused on which is from a shareholder value standpoint our auto business generates really good returns both over time and even this quarter.
Okay so 96.8 was higher than we would have liked in the quarter.
But if you look over the last 12 months its 95.6.
That's a recorded number that's not an underline that's not anything.
That is a really good return on auto insurance.
And so we wanted to make sure we continue to earn that return for our customers -- give that product to our customers at the right price so we earn a good return for our shareholders.
And we don't feel like we're in a position where we have to react expeditiously because there is something that is our problem.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very comprehensive.
My follow-up is on your reinsurance strategy.
Looks like you maintained your like retention of $500 million.
I just wonder like 2 directions on your reinsurance given the reinsurance environments.
But now the pricing is affordable and you have longer-term horizon that 7-year contract now.
So on one hand is that -- what's your strategy to further lower your volatility basically even reducing your current retention level? And the other direction is really what about the coastal market? If you can afford to buy long-term affordable reinsurance will you be more interesting expanding into this markets? So I'll address that in -- this is Steve.
I'll just address it in a couple of ways.
As you noticed we effectively placed the same program we did last year $500 million retention the nationwide coverage: We kind of rolled over the expiring contracts.
We brought $300 million more of coverage as our business is growing.
And as you noted 2 of the contracts above the nationwide program we placed for 7 years in additional reinsurance market.
So that was a major breakthrough we think in terms of our coverage.
You heard me talk in the past about we need 7- to 10-year coverage to provide a stability in the business for our customers.
So that we thought was a big breakthrough this year by our team.
In terms of buying below making that $500 million less.
We look at that and given our capital base we don't think we need to do that.
We're in the business to make good returns we are making good returns in that business now.
And we don't think that economically it makes sense to really bring that down much further.
In terms of the coastal business Matt's talked off and on about the optimization of our exposure on the coast.
We continue to work on that in terms of agency placements.
In addition to just getting reinsurance we want to have the people in place we want to have a spread of risk not only the coast but the central part of the country; which provides the most optimal reinsurance buy and the optimal economics for the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Alison Jacobowitz from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the reinsurance program.
A part of it goes out 7 years does that have positive implications for capital or is that layer just too small? The implication -- this is Steve again.
The implication is it's -- we have buy at a high enough level to appropriately meet the capital tests that the rating agencies have.
The 7 years is really for us because it provides stability in our capital base and for our customers.
And this would be Tom.
We're way underrated in anyway so...sorry I couldn't help myself.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Another quick follow-up for Steve just on the reinsurance program.
Could you guys give us a dollar amount or even just directionally what you expect to save on your reinsurance program over the next 12 months? So if you look at the -- what we placed in the rollover of our nationwide program it's 1/3 of our program and market pricing today is 10% 12% better than it was a year ago.
We reinvested a good part of that in buying this other $300 million of coverage at the top.
So you shouldn't see a whole lot of savings.
If you remember most of it actually just goes through our rates a little bit delayed basis.
But more than 80% of our reinsurance cost are baked into the rates.
So if the reinsurance cost go up the rates go up as they go down and as they have the last handful of years our rates actually go down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then I guess just shifting gears to Allstate brand just a little more color on the 8/10 of a point of unfavorable reserve development in the auto.
It sounded like about half is ascribe to litigation settlement accruals.
I know that segment it has been that redundant for a while.
I think because of the severity related reserve releases.
Just curious what drove the rest of the noise there? So let me do it -- look at it in a couple of ways.
First our reserves are appropriately stated in the balance sheet.
And we -- they are subject to multiple internal and external use on a regular basis.
I just want to make sure we get that out of the way.
Second we do stay that way because we use a variety of reserving methods and they react quickly to the underlying changes in the data we see.
So on the first point to reiterate that just slightly the reserves are established by a team under Sam Pilch our controller and under myself.
That is separate from our business units.
So we have independence in terms of within the company and they are independently evaluated by both our auditors and an annual basis by our appointed actuaries.
So that's the process to ensure the integrity of the reserves.
In terms of the changes which is the second point when we use a variety of methods to enable the accuracy of our reserves -- and when we -- when changes are made in the underlying data we react quickly so take a look at particularly at this quarter as you just noted about the half of the unfavorable prior reserve adjustments related to litigation accruals which really were from many years ago.
Secondly it has to do with an increase in case reserves for our major medical claims.
And those case reserves were increased earlier than our past patterns because of changes we've made in our claim processes to both improve our customer experience and better manage the claims.
So while we believe that acceleration of what we think would ultimately have been upward development in the claims we increased our reserves for both last year; so last 2 or 3 years we had and also this year's severity given the long duration of the settlement of medical claims.
So this increase was determined using a variety of methods.
We continue to look at those and as the period of time goes along we believe that the methods will come together as we do the final payouts and the cases are settled.
Does that...
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And I guess I had one more.
It sounds like you guys are of the view that some of the frequency blip might be an industry issue in general.
And I'm just trying to understand why might we have seen this more at Allstate now and perhaps not in a lot of peers? I'm not sure if it's geographic or anything along those lines.
And also just drilling down within the customer base where are you seeing above average increases at miles driven versus below-average? I think as it relates to competitive it's hard to answer that question right.
So you saw the Geico's Q you can look at Progressive's numbers you can -- but there is -- it's always a question in part of like when you start like you're looking at percentage ups versus absolute levels.
So there is some obviously some state mix in there there is weather-related mix there is how you grew your business.
So it's -- we can't answer the question as it relates to the other people.
We can answer the question which Matt talked extensively about which is we don't see anything in the way we have done our business -- and we have the ability to slice and dice our data as if we were our own competitor right -- so we can slice and dice it in a whole bunch of ways and we do think it's comprehensive.
Matt do you want to take the second piece? The second piece was -- I'm sorry where we're seeing miles driven? Miles driven is essentially I think Tom in the last call referred to it as an indicator of economic activity.
And I think that's really a way to view it.
And so it's been very consistent when you look at miles driven in those regions of the country that have seen an increase in overall economic activity lowered unemployment rate or higher investment or higher home construction.
There is a whole bunch of different ways of looking at it.
But economic activity has spurred miles driven which has spurred frequency.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of questions here.
How important is channels? So if we look at captive versus the independent agency channel and your ability to push for pricing to offset the impact of these loss trends that you're seeing.
It seems like in retentions looked pretty good in the quarter new applications were higher.
So I'm just trying to get an idea I mean is it really just a timing difference in your ability to kind of right size or do you expect to start seeing some pressure from a ceiling on pricing? Mike I would start with it's really about best value for the customer based on what they want.
So if you look at the Allstate agency segment they want local advice they want a broad set of products and services.
And they obviously want a good price as well.
And so it is price-sensitive.
But if you sell them there 2 cars and a house and a boat and all kinds start raising their price by $15 or $20 a year isn't going to change that relationship or that value equation in a substantive way.
So we tend to look at it in terms of what's the customer value proposition how you give them best value.
That's what the quality of the service and the product is as it meets their needs.
And then what is the cost of it? Obviously the channel then subjects that value proposition to different levels of competition.
So when you're in the Allstate channel that -- do not really subject to competition from a whole bunch of other people because you've got that local relationship.
If you're in the independent agency channel there is more competition around that value proposition.
So it tends to be a little bit more price sensitive up there.
And to those people that are in that segment tend to value brands a little differently.
They would sort of if I know the company that's good enough as opposed to I really have a long-standing relationship and I've been part of Allstate for a long time.
That person tends -- that second person tends to be less price-sensitive.
So there tends to be more price competition in the upper left of our four quadrants that's the independent agency channel.
There also tends to be a little more competition on the right-hand side of the page which is the self-serve segment because the relationship is not as strong.
And they're doing a lot of the work themselves so they can go out and get it.
There still is in the branded segment where Esurance is highly focused a fair some -- a focus on am I getting the right kind of product and service and is it easy for me? So it's not just how do I go get another $5 off on this price? So -- but I would say the lower left tends to be the least price-sensitive segment out of all of them.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess for Matt.
I mean so taking that into consideration I mean you've taken clearly took some rate action in 4Q that you talked about and you took more in 1Q then you took more in April.
Where are we in the process in terms of kind of getting us back to kind of where we were before we saw this change in trend? And have those actions now sort of addressed the issue at this point? And you mentioned pulling rate forward should we expect that you will continue to balance an opportunity for rate in the captive channel to sort of get yourself back to where you want to be.
And does the environment -- is the environment at this point conducive to that? We are earning good returns.
We're doing a great job for our customers.
Our customer Net Promoter score is up.
We're growing the business we're getting good returns in the auto insurance business.
And so I don't want the conversation to be too -- I mean we are reacting to what is normal in any market place in any business which is as you have your cost go up you work to make sure that you're maintaining the returns where you want them to be.
The first quarter was a slight blip up.
But we're doing what we normally do.
Which is what we are trying to explain is we look to see is it our problem or everybody's problem? If it's everybody's problem we'll just keep compete and keep growing.
So I don't think this is about getting back to some place versus being at a place we don't want to be.
We had a good profit this quarter.
We made really good returns on our homeowner business in part because of low caps.
But we didn't make as much money in auto insurance this quarter in part because of weather in part because we have to adjust prices reflecting economic activities.
The strength of what we got going is we have lots of levers we can pull whether that's by product by channel by customer segment the way we think about it to help us achieve what we're supposed to do for our shareholders which is to get a good return.
Last 12 months we've had a 13% return on equity and we just gave back $1 billion in cash.
So we think that's a pretty good offer.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly I guess just as a follow-up.
Is there a tailwind from more economic activity for your business as well we sort of focus on the frequency impact but is there an offsetting tailwind to premium or policies that we should think about as well? Well sure.
I mean there is couple of tailwinds as the country continues to grow and given where we are we will continue to grow with it.
The other part to that is in the investment portfolio we are basically long U.S.
growth; the way we positioned our portfolio that being shifting into more performance-based investments and keeping our duration short in the investment portfolio.
So as growth goes up then you would expect to be able to earn higher returns in you fixed income portfolio at some point of time and that would be a huge tailwind for us.
We'll take one more question and then we'll finish it up.
Our final question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was trying to get your perspective on the underlying combined ratio.
The guidance for this year was 87% to 89%.
First quarter was 89%.
I'm just trying to gauge your level of comfort to stay within the outlook for the full year.
Jay if we wanted to change we would've said we wanted to change.
I would point out its a full year number we are committed to that full year number.
We see no reason to change that number at this point.
Obviously you would prefer to start a year at the low end of your range rather than outside your range which we did not.
Being at the high end of the range just means we have to continue to work to get our commitment done.
I would also point out that 90% of our business had an underlying combined ratio of 87.4 that's the Allstate brand piece.
So we feel like we're in good shape for running the business the way we want to do it.
Let me close it off because I know you have other things and we are appreciative of the time you give us.
We had good results this quarter good balanced results.
You can see the strength of the broad-base of our business model which is not just one product not just one customer segment not just one investment offering and investment strategy.
We have a lot of levers we can continue to pull to earn good returns for our shareholders.
We continue to generate not only good returns on equity but also good cash returns for our shareholders.
And we expect to continue to do that as we go forward.
Thank you very much have a great quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Allstate Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Pat Macellaro Vice President-Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Jonathan.
Good morning and welcome everyone to Allstate's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Matt Winter Steve Shebik and myself we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon we issued our news release filed our 10-Q for the second quarter and posted the results presentation we'll use this morning along with an update to our 2015 countrywide reinsurance program to reflect the placement of our Florida program.
We also have posted our second quarter 2015 investor supplement.
We strive to provide transparency into our results and trends and to continuously get better.
So to that end you'll find a number of expanded disclosures in the investor supplement this quarter.
For example we provide Allstate brand auto paid frequency in addition to the gross frequency statistics since paid frequency is more commonly disclosed and used in industry data reports.
The investor supplement along with the other documents I mentioned earlier is available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2014 the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures which there are reconciliations in our news release and in our investor supplement.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion and I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
And now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Good morning.
Thank you for investing your time to keep current on Allstate.
I'll begin with an overview and then Pat Matt and Steve will go through the results in detail.
Also here with us are Don Civgin the President of Emerging Businesses Kathy Mabe who leads our Business to Business operations Judy Greffin our Chief Investment Officer and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
If you turn to slide two you can see the financial performance for the second quarter 2015.
The primary story for the quarter is that our proactive approach to running the business has accelerated the focus on quickly adapting to an increased auto insurance combined ratio.
In addition we continue to benefit from the repositioning of the homeowners business make investment decisions that balance risk and return and invest in long-term growth.
Net income was $326 million for the quarter and $974 million for the first six months of 2015 as you can see from the table on the bottom of the slide.
Operating profit was $262 million or $0.63 per share for the quarter which brings the total for the first six months to $878 million or $2.10 per share.
Second quarter profit was lower than the prior year driven by a deterioration in auto insurance margins which was partially offset by strength in homeowners' margins.
Investment income and Allstate Financial income were slightly lower than the prior-year quarter as expected.
Auto insurance margins decreased as higher claim frequency and severity more than offset average auto insurance price increases.
The increase in auto frequency is broad based across states risk class rating plans and tenure of customer.
And while the recent growth in Allstate brand auto policies did increase frequency since of course new business typically has higher relative frequency this was not the primary driver of our higher combined ratio.
Consequently we believe this is primarily externally driven and supports fast response to loss cost trends.
Now I know many of you have questions about if and how this will show up in competitors' results.
We'll explain what our analysis shows but as you know each competitor has its own unique position.
What is important to emphasize is that we've taken action and will continue to take action to improve profits based on our data.
If and when competitors react to their results it does not change our commitment to profitable growth.
We are executing a comprehensive profit improvement plan for all three underwriting brands it includes raising prices tightening underwriting standards and lowering expenses.
Matt will cover this in a few minutes.
The homeowners business continued to generate excellent underlying profitability and growth is accelerating.
As a result of the auto profit actions and the strength of the homeowners business we are not changing the goal of achieving an underlying combined ratio of 89 or less for the full year.
Progress was made on the other four operating priorities as well.
Policies in force continued to grow in auto home and other property casualty lines for both the Allstate and the Esurance brands.
Encompass policies in force declined.
The combination of unit growth and price increases led to a $345 million increase in Property-Liability premiums earned for the quarter to $7.5 billion which is a growth rate of 4.8% from the prior-year quarter which you can see on the table on the bottom.
Operating income return on equity was 11.9% for latest 12 months.
We also continue to provide excellent cash return to our common shareholders with total cash returned through dividends and share repurchases in the past 12 months of $3.1 billion.
The five 2015 operating priorities are shown on the top of slide three and the results for each brand and customer segment are shown below.
At the bottom left is the Allstate brand which represents 90% of premiums.
Our strategy here is to increase the local advice provided by Allstate agencies while profitably expanding the household relationships.
We're making good progress on implementing this plan and believe we can execute it while adapting to the broad-based increase in auto frequency.
Policy in force growth was 2.7% in total as auto policies continued to increase at slightly above 3%.
Homeowners' growth accelerated to 1.2% and other personal lines grew by 2.9%.
You can see that in the table on the lower left.
Net written premium growth was 4.4% as the largest driver of which was a 4.9% increase in auto insurance premiums.
The combined ratio was 98.7 for the quarter 101.4 auto combined ratio offset attractive results for homeowners and other personal lines.
Homeowners insurance had a combined ratio of 92.3 despite $528 million of catastrophe losses in the second quarter.
The underlying combined ratio for the Allstate brand was 87.7 for the quarter.
Moving to the second largest segment Esurance in the lower right growth in policies in force has come down from the prior year to 6.4% as we've tightened underwriting standards reduced discounts raised auto prices and reduced advertising expenses.
These actions were necessary to ensure that the doubling of the size of the business had appropriate pricing particularly for preferred auto customers.
Average auto prices increased by about 2% which brought net written premium growth to 9.1%.
The combined ratio declined by 2.1 points to 110.2 points reflecting a reduction in expenses.
Esurance also made good progress in expanding into homeowners insurance and are now offering the product in 19 states.
This will enable us to both better serve customers while lowering acquisition cost per policy.
Encompass in the upper left competes in the independent agency channel which serves customers who want local advice but are brand neutral.
As expected policies in force have declined by 2.8% in this price sensitive channel as we've implemented a wide variety of profit improvement actions.
The profit improvement actions were initiated in response to our performance in the market before the upturn in auto frequency in the third quarter of 2014.
Average auto premium was 4.2% higher than the prior-year quarter which mitigated the impact of fewer policies in force so the net written premiums declined by less than 1%.
The combined ratio of 115.7 is lower than last year but it's still too high at an underlying level of 96.5.
Answer Financial our aggregated model has premium growth of 16% versus the prior-year quarter.
Now across all brands we continue to invest in two longer-term operating priorities; modernize the operating model and build long-term growth platforms.
The operating model is being modernized with the retirement of legacy technology platforms and expansion of continuous improvement practices.
New growth platforms such as Drivewise and DriveSense our two telematics offerings are expanding and between them now have 881 000 customers.
Now let me turn it back to Pat to go through our Property-Liability results.
Thanks Tom.
Let's start by taking a look at the Property-Liability P&amp;L on slide four.
Starting with the chart on the top of the slide Property-Liability had net written premium of $7.9 billion in the second quarter of 2015 4.4% higher than the second quarter of 2014.
Through the first six months of 2015 net written premium grew by 4.6% while protection policies in force grew by 2.6%.
Catastrophe losses of $797 million in the second quarter of 2015 were 14.9% lower than the prior-year quarter but the impact was more than offset by deterioration in the underlying combined ratio resulting in a recorded combined ratio of 100.1 and a small underwriting loss for the quarter.
Recorded combined ratio for the first six months of the year was 96.9 which was 0.8 point worse than the first six months of 2014.
The underlying combined ratio for the second quarter and first six months of 2015 was 89.1 elevated over the levels we experienced in 2014.
Net investment income of $292 million for the Property-Liability segment decreased 16.8% from the second quarter of 2014 due primarily to lower but still strong limited partnership returns in the quarter.
As a result Property-Liability operating income of $198 million in the second quarter of 2015 was significantly below the prior-year result while the $753 million of operating income through the first six months of 2015 was 9.5% below the first six months of 2014.
The chart in the upper right is to help orient you to the respective earned premium contribution our three underwriting brands have for both auto and homeowners insurance.
Bottom of the slide contains growth trend information as well as a view of Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratio trends.
Protection premium and policy growth trends are in the chart on the bottom left.
Red line represents policy in force growth and shows the continued positive policy growth trend that's being driven by the Allstate brand.
Policies in force grew by 881 000 or 2.6% from the second quarter of 2014.
Net written premium represented by the blue line grew $330 million or 4.4% in the second quarter of 2015 compared with the same period last year reflecting the combination of policy and average premium increases.
Exhibit on the bottom right displays the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratios for the second quarter of 2015 along with some history.
Both the recorded combined ratio of 100.1 and the underlying combined ratio of 89.1 were impacted by higher auto losses in the second quarter versus the prior-year quarter.
Slide five highlights the margin trends for Allstate brand auto and Allstate brand homeowners.
Chart on the top left of the slide provides a historical view of quarterly recorded and underlying margin performance for Allstate brand auto.
Echoing Tom's comments on auto profitability you can see that the Allstate brand auto recorded combined ratio for the second quarter of 2015 deteriorated by 6 points compared to the quarter a year ago.
The underlying combined ratio was 97.8 in the second quarter also 6 points higher than the prior-year quarter.
The chart on the right highlights the trends driving the deterioration in the underlying combined ratio.
Annualized average earned premium per policy shown by the blue line continued to increase over the prior year in the second quarter but at a slower rate than average underlying losses and expenses per policy which are shown in red.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy increased 8.6% in the second quarter compared with the second quarter of 2014.
While you can see the second quarter of last year was relatively low the increase in the results in the second quarter of 2015 was not entirely driven by a low base.
Matt will provide some color on what's driving these trends.
Similar information is shown for Allstate brand homeowners on the bottom of this slide.
On the bottom left you can see the impact of seasonally-high catastrophes on the homeowners' recorded combined ratio which was a 92.3 in the second quarter of 2015.
The underlying combined ratio of 60.7 in the second quarter of 2015 was a half point higher than the prior-year quarter but well within its expected range.
On a trailing 12-month basis the underlying homeowners combined ratio was a strong 61.6.
Trends that drove the second quarter underlying combined ratio on homeowners are in the chart on the bottom right.
As you can see average earned premium per policy continued to increase over the prior-year quarter although at a slower rate than in the past given the achievement of target returns and the subsequent transition to more inflationary rate activity in this line of business.
Underlying losses per policy increased 2.7% in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Allstate brand homeowners frequency was essentially flat to the prior-year quarter and paid severity increased within our expected range.
Now I'll turn it over to Matt to provide some further context on our auto results.
Thanks Pat.
I'll start on slide six by providing some context about what is driving our auto results how we are thinking through the trends and most importantly how we are responding to them.
Last quarter we said that increases in our auto claim frequency trends were evident broadly across geographies risk classes and customer tenure.
We noted that the trend appeared to be driven primarily by external factors most notably by an increase in miles driven and to a lesser extent adverse weather in certain parts of the country.
What we observed in the second quarter confirmed that.
As you saw in our results our bodily injury and property damage claim frequency trends were both significantly elevated compared to the second quarter of 2014.
As we have noted frequency can be very volatile on a quarterly basis and so year-over-year comparisons are difficult.
Some of the increase we observed this past quarter was driven by the exceptionally strong performance last year but our absolute levels of frequency in the second quarter were at the high end of our five-year expected range and were generally consistent with the elevated levels we experienced in the first quarter.
The largest difference in the second quarter was that there was not a material impact to auto claim frequency from weather.
As a matter of fact the northeast part of the country which bore the brunt of the winter weather earlier this year performed better than other parts of the country in second quarter.
We continue to retest our hypothesis around the primary drivers of frequency and our analysis continues to support the conclusion that these trends are principally driven by external factors.
Miles driven and Allstate's auto claim frequency have historically been very tightly correlated with one another particularly over shorter periods of time as you can see from the chart on this slide.
While miles driven isn't the sole driver of our increased loss trends it does explain a significant amount of the result.
And as you can see miles driven have continued to increase rapidly over prior year as the year has progressed.
The slope of the three lines is very consistent over the past few quarters.
With three additional months of elevated frequency trends we continued to look for different ways to validate or disprove our preliminary conclusions.
One of the more meaningful insights we were able to produce came from an additional analysis we conducted looking at the loss experience of some of our most tenured customers a block of business with a history of stable profitability.
Many of these customers were written in underwriting companies that are not currently writing new risks and were written with a variety of rating plans.
What we found for the second quarter is that this group of customers also experienced significant increases in accident frequency not dissimilar to the overall book of business.
This reinforced our conclusion that the increases we're experiencing in auto claim frequency are primarily being driven by external factors that impact our auto book broadly.
Frequency also tends to bounce around a bit so quarterly trends and comparisons can be a bit volatile.
When you look at PD and BI frequency over a two-year period and compare the second quarter of 2015 with the same period in 2013 the annual increase is about 2%.
As you know new business normally runs at a higher frequency level than renewal customers.
We often refer to this as a new business penalty.
With that in mind we want to quantify this impact in our auto book particularly in light of the positive growth trends we've experienced over the past couple of years.
So we analyzed how the volume of new auto business we've written in the past two years has impacted our results and our analysis indicated that the new business growth rate is having between a half a point and a point impact on the auto loss ratio.
This impact was expected and manageable.
It is however a contributing factor to the higher frequency we are seeing.
We continue to monitor new to renewal trends across our 15 local market operating committees in the U.S.
and Canada.
So that's what we are experiencing.
Let's turn to slide seven and I'll provide some insight into how we are adjusting to these trends.
My comments are going to be about Allstate brand auto which is almost 90% of the auto business.
Nevertheless the actions we are taking in the Allstate brand are consistent with the actions taken by the teams in Esurance and Encompass.
We have a multi-faceted plan underway to improve auto margins.
First we are broadly increasing rates to catch up and then keep pace with increased loss costs.
Allstate brand auto approved rate increases in the second quarter were worth 1.5% of written premium which is almost four times the amount of rate increases that were approved in the first quarter.
We know this is a number you are interested in and know that you turn to different sources to attempt to get a sense for what we and others are doing between quarters.
Unfortunately it seems that there is a lot of inconsistency in how those sources identify and report on these rate increases.
So I would encourage you to reach out to Pat if you have any questions on these.
In conjunction with our broad rate increases we are also engaged in very targeted and segmented rate actions and underwriting changes wherever we identify specific underperforming segments of business.
Those rate actions and underwriting changes are taken in conjunction with our ongoing correct classification programs to ensure we are adequately matching price and risk.
We've also looked at our internal operations and are taking expense improvement actions across the company including reductions in advertising technology professional services and employee-related costs.
So that's our action plan to address the frequency pressure we've seen.
Let me talk for a minute now about severity.
There are several trends we are watching that might influence severity in addition to normal inflationary pressures.
Many of these trends are related to increasing vehicle complexity.
First there's an increase in newer cars on the road with expensive electronic components.
Secondly there's growth in the average number of parts replaced per claim; and third we've seen an increase in more labor hours per claim.
Additionally the largest increase in miles driven has been on interstate roads where accidents obviously occur at higher speeds.
So while most of our discussion today has been around increasing frequency we are also concerned about and reacting to what we believe could be some additional pressure on loss severity.
As a result we will continue to focus on operational excellence in our claims operation to ensure maximum efficiency rapid cycle time and the proactive management of loss cost.
Let's turn to slide eight and I'll help you understand what you should expect from all of these actions.
The chart on this slide gives you an idea of how much earned premium we would generate through 2016 if filed and approved rate increases had ceased on June 30 which by the way they did not.
2015 Allstate brand auto rate increase approved through June 30 will generate written premium of approximately $323 million.
The rate at which this premium will be earned by month is shown by the gray bars on the chart.
As a reminder Allstate brand auto brand policies have six month terms so they take on average a little over 12 months to fully earn in a rate increase.
Approximately $155 million of the rates approved through June 30 will be earned in the second half of 2015.
In addition we continue to earn in premium from rates approved in 2014 which is shown by the blue bars in the chart.
The total we expect to earn in calendar year 2015 from rates approved last year is $243 million.
These actions in total will likely result in slower auto policy growth in the Allstate brand.
We have already seen the impact of profitability actions on the auto policy growth rates in Esurance and Encompass.
So to summarize our action plans are based on a great deal of detailed analysis of both internal and external data surrounding the recent loss pressure we are experiencing.
We will continue to refine our analysis and our understanding the drivers of these frequency trends.
Most importantly however is that while we continue to do this analysis we are already taking swift and decisive action to address these trends and bring our auto profitability back to targeted levels.
And now I'll turn it over to Steve who'll cover Allstate Financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Matt.
Slide nine provides an overview of Allstate Financial's results.
We have strategically repositioned Allstate Financial to become more integrated with the Allstate brand customer value proposition.
Allstate Financial's results for the second quarter are highlighted on the left-hand side of this slide.
Premiums and contract charges increased 3.5% when compared to second quarter 2014 as Allstate agencies have become more engaged in selling life and retirement products.
Operating income for the second quarter was $139 million 15.8% lower than the second quarter of 2014.
This reduction in operating income was driven primarily by lower limited partnership income and higher life mortality than in the prior year's second quarter.
As we did with the Property-Liability portfolio in prior periods we are reducing the risk of rising interest rates in the Allstate Financial investment portfolio by selling longer-term fixed-income securities and investing the proceeds in shorter-duration fixed-income and equity securities.
The chart on the right provides a view of the Allstate Financial fixed income portfolio by scheduled maturity date at June 30 2015 and the two preceding year ends.
While reducing our interest rate risk and repositioning the portfolio maturity profile generates net realized capital gains investment in operating income will reduce prospectively by the yield on the reinvested proceeds.
Moving to investments in the chart at the top of slide 10 following a strong first quarter our portfolio total return was a negative 0.6% in the second quarter.
The income yield has been stable while our valuations were reduced by higher interest rates and wider credit spreads in the quarter.
The bottom of the slide provides investment income and portfolio yield for the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios and illustrates the consistent earnings profile of the interest bearing portfolio and the variability of our equity investments.
The Property-Liability yield reflects prior duration shortening and ongoing investments in low interest rate environment.
The Allstate Financial yield is higher and has been more stable than the Property-Liability segment due to its longer duration and the use of its cash flow largely to fund annuity reductions.
Slide 11 shows our capital position is strong with excellent cash returns to our shareholders in the quarter.
Our deployable holding company assets totaled $3.4 billion at June 30 2015.
During the quarter we returned $642 million in cash to common shareholders through the combination of common dividends and common share repurchases.
We repurchased 7.6 million common shares for $517 million in the open market and under the accelerated share repurchase agreement that settled on May 8 2015.
As of June 30 we had $1.9 billion remaining on the current repurchase authorization which is expected to be completed by July 2016.
Now let's open up the call for your questions.
Certainly.
Our first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays; your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Clearly I think the main topic of the call will be on auto insurance and how those margins can be improved.
You outline on slide eight the impact of the rate increases beginning to materialize in the third quarter; but I think there's some concern around how fast overall the margins can improve either from the combination of rate increases and also addressing expenses.
So perhaps you can give us a bit more clarity in your outlook on that.
Thanks.
Jay I'll start and then Matt can join in.
First we think this is very doable that we can get margins back to where they were.
Obviously you can do your own estimate.
We tried to provide some measure of how much dollars will come through the P&amp;L on that slide that Matt showed.
But also you can look and know that we do disclose that we're increasing our price increases from where we've been so far this year so you can factor that in.
As it relates to expenses I would say what we're doing is tightening our belt but we continue to invest in the future.
So you'll remember in 2011 when we had issues in homeowner profitability we continued to invest in long-term stuff like advertising and continuing to increase our expenses.
Same thing is true this year.
We're cutting some expenses but we'll continue to invest heavily for example in things like DriveWise and DriveSense which is the future for us.
Matt can talk about both his prospects for rate increases and expense reductions.
Sure.
Thanks for the question Jay.
You mentioned rate increases and expense reductions.
I'd also remind you that we considered the underwriting actions and correct class programs and things like that a third lever that we're engaging in this effort because we are in fact tightening some of our underwriting parameters providing some increased focus on correct class programs and we'll continue to use underwriting in conjunction with that.
On the expenses I'd point you to page 59 of the Q.
We are clear there that the targeted expense reductions will represent approximately 0.4 point on the annualized Allstate brand expense ratio.
So you can factor that into your calculations as well.
As Tom said we are accelerating to the extent possible our rate taking and so far we've been quite successful with the states.
We're not getting a great deal of pushback.
Our acceptance and approval level is high.
We are doing it on a micro segmented basis as I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
We're attempting to not just take broad rate increases but to focus them on the specific segments where we're having underperformance or loss pressure and so we feel good about our prospects for aggressively pursuing that.
Obviously on the slide I showed on earning-in the rate I have to stop at the end of the second quarter but you have to hypothetically add on to that what we might be able to take over the rest of this year and into next year and it will compound and we feel comfortable that we will get back to an appropriate targeted level of auto profitability as quickly as possible.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that.
Tom with regard to the 87 to 89 underlying combined ratio target given where we are in first half are you essentially signaling you'll do whatever it takes to get it under 89? We made the commitment because we believe we can get there yes Jay.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Can you give us any sense of what you're seeing in terms of auto profitability trends in July? No given we just closed no.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis of Credit Suisse; your question please.
Hey thanks good morning.
I guess the first question is just on the 1.5% of rate that you've gotten on the book.
Can we expect that number to be at least 1.5% for the remaining quarters of the year? 1.25%? I'm not...
For the Allstate brand auto.
The rate increases as a percentage of the starting book.
Well the rate increases  it's 1.25%; that's throwing me for a little bit.
So it's 1.5% for the quarter and what we've indicated is we would expect it to go up as we move throughout the rest of this year up from the 1.5%.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just back to Matt I guess on the expense ratio reduction in Allstate brand the 0.4 points.
That's net of the investments you talked about so we should think about the expense ratio getting 0.4 point better correct? Yes.
Okay.
And then I guess my last question is just on thinking about trend versus the location specific rate increases.
I guess location specific is 3.6% which actually was a modest deceleration from the previous quarter and just hearing you talk about your view of frequency it's sort of 2% and severity picking up.
I guess I'm just wondering why the location specific rate increases aren't greater than 3.6%.
Yeah Ryan the state specific is influenced heavily by mix and that's not really a representative number to look at.
As it relates to severity I think  Matt's point there was we have a broad-based approach to making sure we're going to come in where we want to come in and he's just referring to there's no stone unturned.
Understood thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kai Pan from Morgan Stanley; your question please.
Thank you good morning.
So just follow up on that if you look at your frequency up more than 6 points and severity like anywhere between 1 point to 4 points add these together you're close to the high-single digits so-called loss cost trends increase.
So is that pricing increase you're instituting right now enough to catch up for those? And do you expect these loss cost trends continue at these levels that you would need more pricing increases basically to improve your underwriting results? Okay Kai let me just set the bar.
So as Matt mentioned it is up and your numbers are absolutely correct as it relates to the second quarter.
On one of the slides in the presentation you can see the dip down in costs in Q2 of 2014 and what Matt has said is of course some of the up is  that 6.9% is because of that down.
But it's also just up higher than we'd want.
So we're doing everything we think we need to do to adjust that.
Let me maybe make a  so underneath that perhaps as it may be your question about did we react quickly enough and I think Matt's team has reacted incredibly quickly to this and the system is fully aligned on improving profitability.
Just to provide some details to that when you look at total costs that's the losses plus expenses which combines both the frequency and the severity as you point out and you compare it to the rate of increases we're taking in pricing that is an appropriate analysis.
If you look at 2014 the first quarter was up a lot because we had bad winter weather.
Then it was about the same as the price increases the costs were kind of moving along.
So about three-quarters of the way through 2014 everything looks fine.
The fourth quarter of course as you know went up and it exceeded our price increases.
And then in the first quarter they came down a little bit but were still pretty high.
So it was really towards the back end of last year and beginning this year that Matt's team began to accelerate price increases.
As we saw things develop in April and May they accelerated that and increased their activity around profit improvement which is the plan that Matt just took you through.
So I think the system is working as planned.
It is highly focused on making sure we earn an appropriate return and reacting quickly.
Okay.
Just follow on that you mentioned about that connected rising pricing could negatively impact on your PIF growth.
Just wondering will that be a sort of lagging effect on the PIF growth? And do you still expect for the full year we see some like passive growth in the auto PIF? I'll let Matt comment in specific where he's working but let me maybe set some historical context.
So our unit growth in auto is over 3% which is hard to tell whether you're picking up unit share but it feels like we're picking up unit market share there.
Homeowners of course accelerating at 1.2% and the other lines are increasing about 3% as well.
The  this is  Matt mentioned this'll have some impact on that auto growth line but this is different than the results we're seeing in Encompass where we're seeing a decline in PIF and it's different than the reaction we had when we worked aggressively to adapt to other external conditions called homeowners and severe weather in 2009.
So we do mention in the press release that we expect overall items in force to increase.
Matt can talk specifically about the impact on growth competition what he's seeing even today as it relates to close rates.
Yes.
Thank you for the question.
First of all it's important to distinguish between impacting growth rate and impacting growth.
So what we said was we expect the rate of growth to dampen a bit as these profitability actions take effect.
We have had eight consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in the auto business.
We have been consistently improving that growth rate during all of that period.
Retention has remained at fairly historic highs.
New business has been exceptionally strong.
And my only point in saying that the growth rate might decline is we do think that at some point taking all of these rate and underwriting actions will dampen our ability to continue accelerating.
That is not to say we expect not to grow.
We will grow and we've said multiple times we intend to continue to add items in here.
We just don't believe that we'll continue on the same trend line that we've been on.
Great.
Lastly if I may on capital management does this frequency issue with the delay some of your capital management how do you balance that? Because your operating earnings apparently is down a little bit year-over-year.
You still expect this current pace of buybacks or you'll take them back a little bit to just see how it plays out? And how do you balance also of course with your share price? It has no impact on our capital plans.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank; your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning Josh.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
So two questions.
First one you can talk about the methodology behind paid severity versus incurred severity? And what are we seeing and how do those two things differ compared to what you publicly tell the Street? Listen we're struggling with what the question is because  between...
Inc.</span></strong> So In terms of your disclosures when did you know  is this representing paid losses here? Are these incurred losses? And trying to understand when we see this what are the chances that Allstate is being proactive and seeing a trend ahead of everybody else versus that Allstate is being reactive here? Okay.
Let me make a general comment and then Steve can fill in here.
So of course paid is just what we paid out and we don't report incurred.
But when we do our reserving we do it on an absolute claim reported basis.
So we look at how many claims are reported and then we estimate what we think the incurred severity will be.
We do that in a number of ways.
We look at what's paid out on claims we look at field reserves.
We adjust those field reserves for the fact that they develop upwards over time.
And then we have of course claims that have been incurred but not reported.
So as opposed to  some people set their reserves based on a targeted loss ratio.
So they'll say you start the year off and say we're going to write $1 000 worth of business we think the loss ratio will be 70 so they book $700 worth of losses.
That's not the way they do it.
I can't speak to whether that is  how other people do their reserving.
I'm sure they're accurate and highly focused on it as well.
There's lots of actuarial science and lots of review that goes on for anybody that reports this stuff.
So I can only tell you what we do which is  and so the reason we report paid is it's a good clean number and it's easy for people to understand; incurred of course changes.
Steve I don't know if you want to add anything.
Yeah.
Really simply our incurred as Tom noted is the accidents that we're aware that happened.
The paid is what we paid.
So there's a lag obviously in that but we do our reserving on a very real-time basis and so that's how it how runs through our financial statements and our paid is really catches up over time.
You can see that in terms of the trends we have between those two lines.
And a couple of reasons that we do that.
First as it gets into pricing faster when we do it that way.
And secondly as you look at paid though you should also note it bounces around a little bit as we change claim practices.
So currently we've changed some of the claim practices on major medical expenses and that's accelerated some of the payments of bigger claims.
But we adjust for that when we estimate what we think the actual losses are for the quarter on which we report.
Inc.</span></strong> I realize that you don't disclose the incurred frequency number.
But given the move in the quarterly combined ratio is incurred frequency running ahead of paid frequency or are they the same? Or you just have no comment on that matter? We base our profitability based on the number of claims that have been reported and adjusted for those that we think have not been reported.
So it's actually live what happens.
So when we're closing July right now we know exactly how many claims we had in July and that's what runs through the P&amp;L.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then another question and I'll get off this topic but I'm sure someone else will pick it up.
Five years ago we said let's just start over at Encompass; it's not working and we need to take major action.
We're here five years later.
Should I be thinking even though I can't see it that Encompass is a better business than it was five years ago? Yeah.
It's a good question and one we talk a lot about.
Let me maybe set the really long-term context and then talk about where we are today.
And Kathy can give you some specifics about the profit improvement programs.
So first we actually bought Encompass in 1999.
At the time it had a combined ratio of 117.
We took it down into the low 90's which was a good thing because it obviously generated a lot of profit for us.
The even better news is we didn't pay much more it.
So it generated a good return on our capital.
And so even today with its results it looks like an acceptable return on capital.
That said this has been a difficult channel for us to maintain consist profitability.
In part there's intense competition of course at the point of customer interaction and the customers tend to be highly price sensitive.
We should be able to leverage both our auto and homeowners insurance expertise to compete effectively.
That said our current results aren't where we'd like them but we have to continue to develop our capabilities to compete as you point out on a long-term basis.
Kathy can talk about the things we're doing specifically today to get that combined ratio down both on a recorded basis and underlying basis.
Okay thank you Tom.
Well as you know at Encompass we're focused on the mass affluent and we're focused strategically on building core strength around pricing and underwriting discipline claims excellence and really good distribution management.
And with regard to the profitability challenges we're experiencing and continue to experience at Encompass we're using a three-pronged approach.
So we're looking at the same things that Matt talked about.
Rate increases underwriting actions and expense reductions.
And you can see how we're leaning into rates if you take a look at page 14 of the investor supplement.
You can see almost 10 points of rate that we are planning to take or have taken on the auto line and it's broad based.
It's across 29 states.
So 85% of the book is getting a significant rate increase in the auto line.
In homeowners we're also taking rates as well and you can see that on page 14 of the investor supplement.
And you can see it's even more aggressive in location-specific rates and we have a couple of really outlier states in terms of problematic performance.
We're taking really strong action.
And that's impacting that PIF number that negative PIF number significantly.
From an underwriting perspective we're focused at agency level actions related to profit and correct class like Matt talked about.
Things like insurance to value.
Some of the things that we needed to strengthen to compete in this channel.
And then across the country we strengthened our inspection standards on homeowners and looked at some of our payment practices around late pays and reinstates.
From an expense perspective you can see on page 59 in the Q that we're down 0.6 in the quarter and 0.8 on a year-to-date basis and that's from managing our technology expenses our people expenses and our distribution costs.
So we've reduced commissions in our monoline auto line of business because as you know in Encompass we're focused on package policy growth.
So your question is a good one and it's a journey that we've been on for a while in Encompass.
We are working aggressively across all those fronts the strategy around mass affluent strong disciplined pricing excellence in claims and really skillful distribution management to reposition Encompass for long-term profitable growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Good luck.
Would love to see it.
Me too.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah DeWitt from JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
On the Allstate brand auto underlying combined ratio of about 98% how should we think about the trajectory of that going forward? Is it going to get worse before it gets better? Or are the rate actions you've taken so far enough to start to see an inflection point in that soon? Sarah we're not  if you look  you'll have to do your own estimate but I think we would expect that if we are going to be at 89 below 89 we're obviously going to have to at least hold it because of where we are with  we're at 89.1 for six months.
So in all the actions Matt talked about the rate slide all that shows it burning in.
You can estimate  you could calculate that what you would think it would be by quarter by fact and we think we've given enough information about the prices we've already had approved.
You can factor in then  to that what prices you think we will try to get approved and when those will roll in.
And then you have the expense ratio number that Matt talked about.
On top of that you'll have to make an estimate of frequency and severity obviously.
And Matt gave some numbers as to what the longer term trends are in frequency and severity.
I would say if you look at miles driven today they're relatively high on an historical basis and so frequency is up.
Could frequency continue to go up of course it could which is why we always have a range and why we're adapting our pricing and profitability actions.
So you'll have to just make your own estimate of that piece.
But we are not giving a specific by-quarter underlying combined ratio for auto insurance for the Allstate brand.
Okay.
And does your guidance of 89% or better does that contemplate the potential for deterioration in severity trends as well? As you would expect we've done all kinds of analysis around that.
And we have a range of what the underlying combined ratio will be for this year given that we are six months in and knowing what we know.
But also knowing that there's a variety of things we don't know and can't predict.
So there's a range around that.
But we felt comfortable that we would be below 89 to stay committed to it.
Okay great.
And then if I can just get one more in on the net investment income how should we be thinking about the run rate there given some of the changes you made on the duration? I'll let Judy talk about the specific net investment income.
But I'll point out just in terms of what we have done right so if you look at our investment position we've tried to position the portfolios on the appropriate risk adjusted return basis.
We're not trying to be a hedge fund and mark-to-market every quarter.
If we don't like the risk per unit of return then we make changes.
And so the changes we started making two or three years ago was for higher interest rates.
And so we shorten the duration on the Property-Liability portfolio.
As we disclosed we started to shorten that duration in the long-term payout annuity block in Allstate Financial and some of the capital accounts this year because we believe that the return per unit of risk for interest rates was not attractive to us.
And then we began to shift into some idiosyncratic equity-like investments called performance based which generate higher long-term returns on a risk-adjusted basis but leads to more variability as in limited partnership returns.
So Sarah thanks for the question.
As Tom said we're taking action in Allstate Financial to reduce our interest rate risk to improve our expected returns and as a result you'll see some gains as well as some deterioration in net invested income.
As Tom also said we are taking the actions in basically two places in our long duration payout block and there what we are looking to do as Tom said is reinvest primarily in equities.
Initially what you'll see is that will likely be in public equities but over time we're going to move it into more of that idiosyncratic risk that Tom just talked about.
On the surplus side we're shortening the duration and there  that surplus account is going to look more and more like the protection account that Tom just mentioned where we shortened duration there and really kept it in fixed income for the most part even though it's a balanced account.
But that fixed income piece to that surplus account is just going to be at a shorter duration.
As Tom said as we look at the risk adjusted return of interest rate risk and just don't feel that we're getting paid to be in the longer end of the curve.
I think the important thing to think about from shareholder value creation is we believe in looking at long-term shareholder value creation and so when we shortened the Property-Liability portfolio we took a pretty significant hit to operating earnings per share because we thought it was in our shareholders' best interest.
You'll see not as large but also a significant impact as it relates to Allstate Financial in the short term because we're harvesting gains and giving up operating income.
But we believe that's in the right interest of shareholders and we don't run the place just on operating EPS on a quarterly basis.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney; your question please.
Good morning Allstate.
A quick question on how we should think about  on the first-quarter call you highlighted that you were seeing frequency ticking up and seeing a need to take decisive action.
I was hoping to see that the PIF growth would slow and in fact the PIF accelerated against a tough comparison.
Maybe you could talk to what the dynamics are that led to the acceleration.
Is that something we should think is a good thing or a bad thing? Bob thanks for the question.
We spent an awful lot of time and energy getting our agency force engaged building up capacity adding points of distribution adding licensed sales professionals entering markets where we had been geographically underpenetrated and over time that along with some of the work we have done on the rating plans has improved close rates and quote rates and we have begun growing and the momentum has built on itself.
And so while we have taken a bunch of rate actions and underwriting actions already that growth momentum has been so strong and so systemic that it has still not shown up to dampen those growth rates.
But as we said several times during the call that has a limit.
I don't know exactly when that's going to occur.
A lot of it depends upon competitor actions as well and whether or not competitors are taking rates as well or whether they're waiting this out.
It will depend upon the mix in different areas and geographic concentrations of our competitors.
So I think that growth is a good thing.
Obviously growth with targeted levels of profitability is our goal and so right now I'm focused and the team is focused extensively on the profitability challenges to make sure we get that in line and so that the growth yields shareholder value long term shareholder value in a long term productive way.
Bob let me share some analysis that Matt did as well which gets to the question of your competitors have better pricing or you are growing by being underpriced which I think might be underlying your question there.
And the data does not show that to be true.
So he looked at one measure of competitiveness of course is your close rate and that's how many of your customers take the policy after they quote.
And while price is not the only reason somebody would close obviously we think they close because we give them good local advice and have great service but it is obviously very important.
Those states where we have the highest close rate tend to have very low loss ratios which would lead you to conclude we're not underpriced as a way of driving that growth.
If you look at the bigger states they have lower close rates than some of the  ones that have higher close rates which are  they are more competitive states.
But the vast majority of those big states have loss ratios that are below our targets.
So the conclusion then is we're winning through sophistication not lower price.
Well I have every conviction that you guys know how to do auto underwriting.
The question is sort of what the timing is of getting to where you want to get to.
And I think I'd have more conviction if you were shrinking rather than winning due to your good franchise.
So I appreciate the answer and those were thoughtful responses.
If I could have one other quick follow-up your expense ratio cuts you said advertising.
What other areas have you targeted as opportunities to cut expenses without getting to the bone? Yeah Bob so it's advertising technology professional services and several employee-related costs and that's what we've disclosed and that's the action that we're taking.
Bob it's belt-tightening.
Not draconian.
Yes.
Thank you.
We will take one last question.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs; your question please.
Thanks.
Just I guess following up on Bob's question if I could.
When you guys had  and I'm not comparing magnitude  but like when the homeowners business went through a period of difficulty I mean you guys pulled back from growth I mean it was no longer even on the table and you did what you needed to do to get the profitability of that book back where you wanted it to be.
And that was very successful.
I guess my question is at what point do you take your foot off the pedal the growth pedal not just sort of partially and not just sort of tipping your hat to profitability but entirely and sort of focus attention exclusively on getting the profitability back where you want it? It's Matt.
Michael let me make sure because maybe I wasn't as clear as I should have been in my opening remarks.
One of the bodies of work that we did was to go back and look at whether or not the loss ratio pressure and the frequency pressure was showing up in the growth areas and in the new business or whether or not it was showing up consistently across the books.
And in fact when we did that analysis we saw those old blocks of historically profitable business long-tenured customers unrelated to any of our recent growth.
We're experiencing significant frequency changes as well consistent with what the overall book is experiencing.
So the pressure we're seeing is not specific to growth segments.
It's not specific to growth geographies.
It's not specific to anything related to growth.
We're seeing it across the broad book.
So slowing down growth the only part that that will impact is that what we refer to as the new business penalty which is that differential with the normal new to renewal ratio.
And as I said we are monitoring that closely and we will take appropriate action to ensure that we hit the targeted underlying combined ratio.
All right.
So let me just close to say first Allstate's operating philosophy is profitable growth.
When you compete in an industry that has an overall return on capital below our targets that means you have to have the guiding principle that profit is the biggest driver of shareholder value.
Obviously you have to be sophisticated and you have to react quickly all of which we're doing.
We've done this before whether that's in homeowners or other businesses.
We do are proactive in managing shareholder value on a long-term basis.
So for example in the investment portfolio we are willing to give up operating earnings per share if we believe it creates long-term shareholder value.
And we'll continue to operate with that philosophy of creating shareholder value.
So we expect to continue to drive results and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Pat Macellaro Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan.
Good morning and welcome everyone to Allstate's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and myself we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon we issued our news release filed our 10-Q for the third quarter and posted the results presentation we will use this morning along with our third quarter 2015 investor supplement.
All of these documents are available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2014 the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and our investor supplement.
We're recording this call and a replay will be available following its conclusion and I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
Now we'll turn it over Tom.
Good morning.
Thank you for investing time to keep up on our progress at Allstate.
I'll cover an overview of results and then Pat Steve will go through the details.
Our operating team is also here to provide additional perspective when we get to the dialogue section.
Let's begin on slide 2.
We had good overall earnings this quarter primarily reflecting the continued strength of our homeowners' insurance business.
As you know we repositioned this business so the underlying combined ratio would support good annual returns even with high catastrophe losses.
This quarter we also benefited from lower catastrophe losses than this quarter last year.
This continued strength in homeowners has also led us to reduce the capital requirements for this line which has now become a competitive advantage.
We also made progress in improving auto insurance returns.
As you know in the fourth quarter of last year the combined ratio on this business began to rise which reflected an increased frequency of losses and higher severity per claim.
As a result we instituted a comprehensive program based on the business model and practices that have been highly successful really the last 14 years.
That of course includes raising auto insurance rates for the first nine months of 2015 the approved rate increase.
This is in absolute dollars was about twice the amounts achieved in the average of two prior years.
That increase in improved rates has begun to be realized in premiums earned but of course the impact will continue to increase over the next year as policies renews.
We also made underwriting standards more restrictive which has the effect of reducing the higher loss ratio new business.
As a result Allstate brand auto policy growth declined at 3.1% with larger reductions at Esurance and Encompass.
Given the cost trends we and others are experiencing in auto repairs there is also a heightened focus on both effectively and efficiently managing claim loss costs.
We also reduced advertising expenses and took some other actions so that the underwriting expense ratio in the quarter declined by 1.4 points to 24.9.
Now all of these actions are well thought out.
We balanced short-term profitability and long-term economic value creation per share holders.
In addition they are tightly integrated and implemented in a highly targeted and local manner.
The recorded combined ratio for the quarter is 93.6 which generated $491 million of underwriting income.
The underlying combined ratio for the first nine months of 2015 was 89.1.
That's slightly above the outlook we established at the beginning of the year of 87 to 89.
We now expect a full year underlying combined ratio to be no higher than 89.5.
Common shareholders received $2.6 billion in cash so far this year due in part to an 8% reduction in a number of shares outstanding.
If you move to the box on the bottom of the slide operating income was $610 million or $1.52 per share which is 9.4% higher than the prior year quarter which you can see in that little red box.
Premiums earned were up 4.7% reflecting an increase in average premiums and a 2.3% increase in the number of items in force.
The overall return on equity was 12% on both an operating and net income basis.
Let's move on to slide 3.
We'll go through the results for the individual segments.
Our five operating priorities for the year are shown at the top and those have not changed.
The Allstate brand in the lower left is our largest segment of course and it comprises about 90% of premiums written and serves customers who prefer branded product and value local advice and assistance.
This business continued its moderate growth across all the product lines as you can see from the first line in that box.
Total policies in force are 2.5% higher than last year's third quarter.
Auto insurance growth did decline slightly in the quarter.
Homeowner's policy growth up slightly and other personalized policies grew at 3%.The underlying combined ratio for this segment was 88.3 as you can see in the red box at the bottom.
Esurance on the lower right serves customers that prefer branded product but are comfortable handling their own insurance needs.
Growth continued to slow in the segment and was 3.7% versus the prior year.
The reduction in auto insurance growth as a percentage absolutely was not offset by the high percentage growth in other product lines such as homeowner's insurance.
The underlying loss ratio did improve and was 105.3 for the third quarter.
Encompass in the upper left is the smallest segment that we underwrite for and competes for customers that want local advice but are less concerned about the choice of insurance company.
Encompass primarily sells a packaged auto and homeowner's insurance policy through independent agencies.
This business has gotten smaller and policies in force are down 5.7% from a year ago due to lower retention and less new business.
We took aggressive action to improve profitability in both auto and home homeowner's insurance.
The underlying combined ratio is 90.9 for the quarter.
Answer Financial in the upper right serves brand neutral self-serve customers and competes in a relatively small segment of the market with aggregators such as Google Compare.
Total nonproprietary written premiums of $443 million for the first nine months of 2015 are 11.2% above the same period in a prior year.
Now overall operating results were in line with our expectations and we remain committed to increasing shareholder value by generating good returns growing profits and providing cash to shareholders.
Pat will now go through the Property-Liability results in more detail.
Thanks Tom.
Let's start by taking a look at the Property-Liability P&amp;L on slide 4.
Starting with the chart on the top of the slide Property-Liability net written premium was $8.1 billion in the third quarter of 2015.
It was 4.2% higher than the third quarter of 2014 reflecting the combination of policy and average premium increases predominantly from Allstate brand auto and homeowners.
For the first nine months of 2015 net written premium grew by 4.5% while policies in force grew by 2.3%.
Property-Liability policies in force were 34.7 million at the end of September.
I should note this excludes 5.6 million Allstate Financial policies and 2.1 million Good Hands Roadside relationships.
Catastrophe losses of $270 million in the third quarter of 2015 were $247 million lower than the prior year quarter.
Recorded combined ratio for the third quarter of 2015 was 93.6 which is one-tenth of a point worse than the prior year quarter.
First nine months of 2015 the recorded combined ratio was 95.8 which was 0.6 of a point worse than first nine months of 2014.
The underlying combined ratio for the third quarter of 2015 was 89.3 and the underlying combined ratio for the first nine months of 2015 was 89.1 both elevated over the results we experienced in 2014.
Property-Liability operating income of $550 million in the third quarter of 2015 was half a percent below the prior year result while the $1.3 billion of operating income through the first nine months of 2015 was 5.9% below the first nine months of 2014.
Bottom of the slide contains growth trend information as well as a view of the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratio trends.
Premium and policy growth trends are in the chart on the bottom left.
We mentioned the drivers of premium trend shown in the blue line earlier.
The red line represents policy in force growth and shows the slowing policy growth trend that's being driven by auto profit improvement actions in all three brands.
Policy in force grew by 772 000 or 2.3% from the third quarter of 2014.
Exhibit on the bottom right displays the Property-Liability recorded and underlying combined ratios for the third quarter of 2015.
Both the recorded and underlying combined ratios were impacted by higher auto losses in the third quarter of 2015 versus the prior year quarter.
Slide 5 highlights margin trends for Allstate brand auto and Allstate brand homeowners.
The chart on the top left of the slide provides a view of quarterly underlying margin performance for Allstate brand auto.
Third quarter results were impacted by higher frequency and severity than the prior year quarter resulting in a 5.2 point deterioration in the underlying combined ratio from what we experienced in the third quarter of 2014.
On a sequential basis the combined ratio was 0.3 of a point higher in the third quarter of 2015 versus the second quarter of 2015.
The chart on the right highlights the trends driving the change in the underlying combined ratio.
Annualized average earned premium per policy shown in the blue line is beginning to pick up momentum given rate increases implemented throughout 2015.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy increased compared with the third quarter of 2014 influenced by higher frequency and severity but lower expenses per policy.
Similar information is shown for Allstate brand homeowners on the bottom of this slide.
On the bottom left you can see the impact of low catastrophes in the homeowner's recorded combined ratio which was a 72.5 in the third quarter of 2015.
The underlying combined ratio of 60.9 in the third quarter of 2015 was 0.9 of a point higher than the prior year quarter and about equal to this year's second quarter.
On a trailing four-quarter average basis the underlying homeowner's combined ratio was a favorable 61.8.
The components of the third quarter homeowner's underlying combined ratio are in the chart on the bottom right.
Average earned premium per policy increased to $1 079 or 1.5% over the prior year quarter.
Underlying losses and expenses per policy increased 3% in the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2014 but the difference between premium and underlying losses and expenses per policy is essentially the same in the two periods.
Slide 6 provides an update on our multifaceted auto profit improvement plan.
Last quarter we discussed the four components of our plan to lower auto margins three of them to adjust to higher accident frequency and one of them to adjust to higher claims severity.
First we sought approval for higher auto rates across the country in response to higher loss trends.
Second we implemented underwriting changes wherever we identified specific underperforming segments of business including ongoing correct classification programs to accurately price policies.
Third we focused on claims operational excellence and precision given cost trends.
And fourth we reduced expenses across the organization.
While these actions in total will improve auto margins they will also slow growth.
Detailed results for these initiatives are shown on the bottom two tables.
Allstate brand approved auto rate increases in the third quarter of 2015 were 1.6% of prior year-end total Allstate brand auto net written premium or $277 million.
This brings the total for the year to 3.4% or $600 million in net written premium.
An outcome of these profit actions that auto growth in the Allstate brand is beginning to slow.
Property-Liability expense ratio decreased by 1.4 points in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year quarter reflecting expense actions taken across the company.
You can see the impacts by underwriting brand in the chart on the lower left.
The bottom right hand chart shows the net written premium amounts generated by the auto rates we received approval for in the first three quarters for the past three years for the Allstate brand.
You can see the total we've implemented through the first nine months of 2015 is significantly higher than both 2013 and 2014.
We know that not every customer will renew their policy and that some customers will decide to change the level of their coverage which will result in lower levels of premium in aggregate than what is shown on this chart.
This is common customer behavior and why we believe premium change is a key process that's enhanced by an Allstate trusted advisor.
Cumulatively the rates we received approval for in 2014 and through the third quarter of 2015 will be worth $816 million in earned premium through the third quarter of 2016.
This analysis only includes rates approved through September 30.
As we continue to evaluate and run our business on a local market by market basis we continue to aggressively pursue rate increases and adjust our actions going forward to ensure appropriate auto returns.
Slide 7 highlights combined ratio and top line trends for both Esurance and Encompass.
The chart on the top of this page includes combined ratio results for both companies.
Esurance's recorded combined ratio of 106.5 in the third quarter of 2015 was 10.1 points lower than the same period a year ago given decreased investment in marketing along with the 3.7 point improvement in the loss ratio.
Esurance's underlying combined ratio of 105.3 for the third quarter improved by 7 points.
Encompass's recorded combined ratio of 101.3 in the third quarter of 2015 was 8.4 points lower than the prior year quarter and benefited from an 11.1 point decline in catastrophe losses.
Encompass's underlying combined ratio was 90.9 in the third and 92.7 through the first nine months of 2015.
As you can see in the two charts on the bottom of this page growth is being impacted by profit improvement actions.
In Esurance policies in force and net written premium both grew by 3.7% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year quarter.
These growth rates are lower than recent quarters given impact from rate increases underlying  underwriting guideline adjustments and decreased marketing in select geography to manage risks.
Both new business and retention in Esurance have been impacted by these actions.
In Encompass net written premium declined by 3.5% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014.
This 5.7% decline in policies in force was more than offset by higher average premiums from increased rates and underwriting actions.
As with the Allstate brand we continue to evaluate our results and adjust actions to ensure we are generating appropriate returns in both of these businesses going forward.
And now I'll turn it over to Steve who will cover Allstate Financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Pat.
Slide 8 provides an overview of Allstate Financial's results for the third quarter as highlighted on the top of the slide.
Premiums and contract charges increased 5.1% when compared to the third quarter 2014 driven by growth at Allstate Benefits' accident and health insurance business as well as increased traditional life insurance renewal premiums.
Operating income for the third quarter was $138 million 10.4% higher than third quarter of 2014.
The increase in operating income compared to prior year quarter was driven primarily by higher returns on performance based investments which were partially offset by higher mortality and a lower return from the fixed income portfolio.
We reduced the maturity profile of Allstate Financial's investment portfolio in the third quarter by selling longer term fixed income securities that backed long-dated immediate annuities.
The proceeds from these sales will be invested over time in higher returning performance-based equity investments to improve the long-term economic results from this block of business.
This will include private equity real estate infrastructure timber and agricultural related investments.
Although these investments are expected to deliver higher returns the timing of those returns is difficult to predict and will result in a greater degree of variability in our earnings.
Additionally we will have to increase the capital allocated to this business.
While these sales generated net realized capital gains investment in operating income will be reduced prospectively by lower yields on the reinvested proceeds.
Moving to investments results on slide 9 the portfolio total return shown in the chart on the top left was flat for the quarter.
The consistent earnings from the interest bearing portfolio were offset by lower valuations driven primarily by wider credit spread disproportionately on high yield bonds and a global equity market selloff as you can see reflected in the chart in the upper right.
The charts at the bottom provide investment income and portfolio yields for Property-Liability and Allstate Financial portfolios.
The Property-Liability yield reflects prior duration shortening and ongoing investment in the low interest rate environment.
The Allstate Financial yield is higher and is more stable due to its longer duration and use of its cash flows primarily to fund annuity reductions.
Slide 10 illustrates the strength of our capital position and highlights excellent cash returns common shareholders received in the quarter over the first nine months of 2015.
We are executing our customer focused strategy from a position of financial strength and strategic flexibility.
Our deployable holding company assets total $3.1 billion at September 30 2015.
Book value per common share for the third quarter of 2015 of $47.54 was down slightly from the same quarter a year ago reflecting primarily reduced unrealized net capital gains.
During the quarter we return $920 million in cash to common shareholders through a combination of dividends and common share repurchases.
We repurchased 12.9 million common shares for $798 million in the third quarter and have repurchased 8% of our beginning of year common shares outstanding for $2.2 billion in the first nine months of 2015.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have repurchased 32% of year-end 2010 outstanding common shares representing an $8.2 billion return of capital to common shareholders.
As of September 30 we had $1.1 billion remaining on our current repurchase authorization which is expected to be completed by July 2016.
Now let's open up the call for your questions.
Certainly.
Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I guess my first question is just on the expense ratio here in Allstate brand.
It was down over a point year-over-year and I think the previous guide was you're trying to get about 0.4 of a point from your expense save initiatives.
Does that imply that the expense ratio improvement should moderate from the point plus we saw this quarter over the next few? And I guess along those lines if trend continues to be adverse how much room is there to further cut expenses beyond the 0.4 of a point that you called out last quarter? Thanks.
Well the number should decline.
It won't stay up at 1.4 decline versus prior year.
There were a couple of things that happened in there.
First we reduced advertising expenses in the quarter because we just don't want to grow as much so there is no sense in advertising if we don't want to grow.
Secondly there were some incentive compensation adjustments which adjust for the full year which has really nine months' worth of change in it versus the three months.
But we can talk about the things we are doing.
Matt can mention what we are doing to keep overall expenses in line but it's obviously always a component of focus for us.
Yeah hi.
It's Matt Ryan.
Thanks for the question.
As Tom said there were some one-time items that we saw in the quarter but there are also some more systemic longer term work that we have been doing.
In addition to the advertising cuts Tom referred to we've had a multi-year effort on continuous improvement and process efficiency which is really starting to take hold now and that's allowed us to get some increased efficiency out of the system.
It allowed us to absorb some of the growth without increasing personnel costs and we should expect that to continue long term.
Some of the cost reductions had to do with some technology costs that we slowed down some very long-term initiatives that we had while we retained the focus on the shorter term ones that were essential to continuing to operate the business.
So as Tom said we won't be able to continue at the current level but we do believe that long-term there is some additional cost reductions and efficiencies that we can continue to drive in the business.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just shifting gears on frequency I figured I'd try.
I guess thinking back to last year I think October was when we first started seeing the elevated frequency trend.
I was just wondering if maybe you could comment on how this October compares to when we first started seeing it a year ago.
We couldn't comment on that Ryan.
Okay.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes thank you very much.
So looking at the monthly numbers Tom do you see improvement in terms of the rates that you're getting in? How should we think about 4Q a little bit in terms of the trend and balance that with seasonality of 4Q? And I know that you're not going to give us guidance for 2016 just yet but I thought three months ago you were confident that you could probably maintain the 89% ceiling and I guess you're going to go a little bit above that.
How should investors think about positioning themselves going forward? Okay you're correct in saying we'll wait until the full year is printed before we do an outlook for next year.
We are  as you point out we had about a year ago actually the frequency in severity started to take off and as always we are highly focused on maintaining returns on capital.
That said we always try to do that with looking at the long-term economics and of course that is driven by retaining customers which lead to higher profitability and higher growth.
So when you have a rapid spike in cost like that we need to obviously recover those costs quickly.
I feel very good about the pace at which Matt and his team are executing; Don and his business are going at it.
I would say this is the first time it's really happened across the country all at once in a long time.
That said we see this movie every year multiple times in individual states.
So it's not like we haven't been through this movie multiple times before.
We know how to manage it.
It does have an impact on growth which you can see more dramatically in the Encompass and Esurance brands than you see in the Allstate brand this quarter.
You should expect to continue to see some impact on growth.
That said we are not doing it so aggressively that we're giving up long-term returns.
As it relates to the combined ratio and the guidance obviously after the second quarter we were at the upper end of the range.
We were at 89.1 versus a range of 87.89.
We had a range of forecast at that time and we said we thought we could be at the high end of the range.
We thought we still had a chance to be in the range and we continue to work aggressively to try to achieve that.
That said we did indicate we didn't think the low-end range was achievable.
Since then we've now printed another three months and we're now still at 89.1 and we also have a range of forecasts and when we look at that we said there are some outcomes where the fourth quarter could be higher so that we could end up the full year at 89.5 which is half a point higher than the upper end of the range before.
And as most of you know the fourth quarter is historically quite volatile particularly as it relates to winter weather.
But we feel comfortable that all of our forecasts are going to leave us below 89.5.
So I feel good about where we are at.
I think we are aggressively going after short-term actions.
I don't think we're throwing out long-term value creation.
That said we're getting after it because we know that the biggest driver to shareholder returns is return on equity.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great Tom.
And just about the winter weather in the fourth quarter I've thought about this a few times.
I mean December may have some inclement driving conditions but it seems to me that October and November should be pretty mild driving months.
How do you account for the difference maybe between fourth quarter and first quarter seasonality in the loss ratio? I would think that first quarter winter weather would be worse than fourth quarter or maybe I'm not thinking about this right.
I would say there's a whole bunch of things that relate to it.
Obviously you zoomed in on weather.
In addition to weather there is the darkness.
So it gets darker earlier so more of the traffic is driven in the dark in the fall and obviously in the first quarter.
But then you have weather you have precipitation you have near ice conditions versus ice conditions in the first quarter.
So there is a whole bunch of moving factors there.
I kind of look at both of them and just say they're both highly volatile.
Those are busy times of the year when people are driving a lot and you do get more action.
So there's more range.
I don't think there is any El Nino effect or anything like that that we're factoring in.
It's just going to be what it's going to be.
Inc.</span></strong> Well thank you for the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Farrell from Piper Jaffray.
Hi and good morning.
Just wanted to talk a little bit more about the shift...
Hey Dan we lost you.
Hey Jonathan let's go to the next question.
Certainly.
Our next question comes from the line of Sarah DeWitt from JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Sarah.
On the frequency trends has the absolute level of auto loss frequency stabilized versus the second quarter? And to what extent are you concerned that it could increase further and you will need to take rate increases to another level? I'll let Matt answer that question.
Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
Components of it have stabilized and components of it appear to still be volatile.
And so at this point we are assuming the trend line continues to go up at its current levels.
We'd like to see multiple quarters at the same level before we call it as stabilized and take our foot off both the rate lever.
So we continue to operate as if the frequency will continue.
Our plans are to continue to take rate wherever justified and indicated and wherever we're able to in those states after we go through our examination.
So I would say that we haven't leaned back and relaxed yet and said it's all over but it appears to be operating in a narrower range than it was I'd say this time last year when we saw such an out of proportion spike in one quarter.
Yeah.
I would add on to that.
What you see are our numbers across the country.
Matt and I were talking last night about how certain parts of the country have not had as big an increase as other parts.
So it's possible that while some portions of the country may level out other portions may increase to catch up to where the rest of the country is.
So we are  as Matt points out our team is being very cautious about calling a victory.
Okay great thanks.
And then on the last call I believe you said you thought you could get back to target auto margins of a 94% to 96% combined ratio in mid to late 2016.
And now that you have one more quarter of frequency data do you still feel confident in that? Sarah I remember doing the  yes we can get to the 94% to 96% because we ran there for 14 years.
I don't remember making a call on the quarter.
I think the call on the quarter will be dependent on a couple of things.
The trend you just pointed out which is we'll have to see where that goes.
Secondly as we increase rates we are having a great success in doing that today.
Our competitors are doing it.
There is not a lot of noise in the marketplace yet.
But if frequency continues to go up for two years or three years obviously there will be increased scrutiny.
So we have complete confidence that we can run this business with the margins that it's been run at historically.
We don't have a good clean call as to when we will be at that level.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alison Jacobowitz from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey it's Jay Cohen actually.
If you could just follow up on the last question.
The frequency you saw in the third quarter is it fair to say it was generally within your expectations you weren't surprised by what you saw? Jay it's Matt.
That's a tough question.
As Tom just said on a countrywide basis for the entire system I would say that's accurate.
I don't think there was anything that caught us off guard.
There are state-by-state geographic fluctuations in there that do continue to intrigue us.
I won't say surprise us but we are trying to figure out why some of the fluctuations exist in certain geographies.
But overall as a system-wide basis I think you're right.
My opinion third quarter was very similar to what we had seen in second quarter from a frequency standpoint.
I had actually expected or hoped that we'd get a little more stabilization in some of the components.
But it certainly didn't shock us or look to be a spike that was totally unexpected.
Yeah.
It also varies obviously by coverage.
So we were talking about BI bodily injury looks a lot like the level that it started to achieve in the fourth quarter last year.
Physical damage is a little bit higher.
So as Matt points out the good news is we have great visibility and transparency and we act to it.
The bad news is like all things in frequency you can't predict it.
Got it.
And the second question is what are you seeing your competitors doing now? Obviously some have talked about higher claims trends as well others have not.
Are you seeing a general broad competitor response at this point? I'll give you  what we do is we look at our numbers.
We make the changes based on what's happening to our book of business so that we can earn the appropriate returns.
Matt you might want to make a comment about what you're seeing in the marketplace.
Yeah as Tom said we make the call based upon what we are seeing in that market and our rate need and indication.
However in every single case we also do run recent rate filings from our competitors to get a sense for whether or not we are out of sync or whether or not we should be looking closer at the numbers.
And what I have been seeing as I look at those is that we have a broad range of our competitors taking very similar rates to us.
It obviously varies depending upon their starting point but we've seen several competitors taking much more in certain geographies and some less in others but on a countrywide basis I would say that we do not appear to be out of sync with our competitors.
Which is why in addition to the fact that our agents are able to help our customers manage through these premium increases I think one of the reasons that retention has held and that our quote and close ratios have held is because we're not alone in this rate taking.
Thanks for those answers guys.
Thank you.
And we do have Dan Farrell from Piper Jaffray back in the queue.
Thank you very much guys.
And I apologize for the issue with the line.
My question was with regard to Allstate Financial and some of the changes you are making with the shift in fixed income to risk assets.
And I was just wondering what's the lag going to be in getting some of the income from those assets? I realize there will be more volatility.
And then secondly you mentioned some additional capital being allocated.
How do you view the ROE impact for that segment with the additional capital? Thank you.
I'll provide some oversight as to the strategy and Judy can talk about the timing of income.
So Dan we have about a $5 billion block of really long-dated liability structured settlements for people who were severely injured buyout annuities immediate annuities that have maturities of 30 years 40 years.
If you look at the right way to invest behind those liabilities it would be to A) make sure you have enough cash so that in the next five years to seven years you always got enough money to pay those people.
But after that then you want to invest for long-term return.
And so when we look at that second portion the investment pool we said given today's interest rates where they are we think buying 30-year bonds to satisfy those liabilities is not the right use of our capital that we should invest in higher return assets.
They have more volatility on an annual basis but when you look at the volatility on a 10-year or 15-year basis it's actually lower than the volatility and investing in in theory lower risk assets like fixed income.
In doing that though there is a higher capital charge from the regulators.
We've chosen to do the right thing long-term to generate capital for our shareholders and economics for our shareholders even though it requires putting up more capital and having a negative impact on return on equity now because we believe that's the right thing to do.
Judy can talk about the shift.
So what we did is we sold a bunch of long-dated bonds and had some capital gains and now Judy is going to get that capital reinvested into other investments.
So you might want to talk about the reinvestment plan and then how long it will take to get the money back.
The Allstate Corp.</span></strong> Sure.
As Tom said we did sell some longer duration bonds out of the immediate annuity block and initially what we're doing is we're reinvesting into primarily public equities and shorter duration fixed income.
The long term goal as Tom said is to get it into performance-based assets which we like because it's a little bit more idiosyncratic brings idiosyncratic risk into the portfolio plus we underwrite each one of those investments and bring them into the portfolio as Tom said for the long-term.
The kicker is that it takes a while to get those investments especially the ones that we really like in this environment.
What we're doing though as I said was initially putting it into this other mix public equities and shorter duration fixed income so we're ready when we do find those higher performing more idiosyncratic investments.
In terms of timing we have had some success over the past couple of years finding those investments but what we're finding in this environment is that we're getting money back almost as quickly as we can put it out because the environment has been so favorable for realization but we're keeping our head down and trying to find them and we'll continue to do that going forward.
So Dan we've made the choice that choose the best long-term economics if that has a short-term negative impact on operating income which this will or return on equity.
That's the best choice for our shareholders because we believe in long-term to generate cash.
That's what drives shareholder value.
And we decide not to be  make economic decisions based on keeping operating earnings per share up on a quarterly basis.
As long as we're transparent we've found our shareholders to be quite receptive to that approach.
Great.
Thank you very much for the details.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney.
Your question please.
Good morning Allstate.
I'm going to push Jay's question which Matt answered a little bit harder on your upping the range.
When you were at Barclays in September Tom you said if you saw anything you would have made an adjustment by now which I thought was a pretty optimistic comment given that you had seen two months of the third quarter.
Was there something in September or October that caused you to now do it? Or is there something that isn't taking hold as quickly as you would like? I think all your actions are right and I have 100% confidence you are going to get the underwriting back.
But just want to make sure there wasn't anything in the short-term data that caused the change from the Barclays conference commentary.
Well when we had the Barclays conference there was  we have a range of projections and those projections were largely based off what we had seen through the second quarter.
So even though we are a couple months into the quarter you don't have things like severity and reserve changes and as clean a shot as you'd like on what the full year will look like.
Obviously you get three quarters of the way through the year you ought to have a pretty good sense of where the year is coming out.
So the range has come in some Bob is what I would say.
It's narrowed down.
The frequency continued to be up in the month of September.
So that also impacted our view but don't read it as a huge change from where we were before.
I was very clear when we were at 89 once for six months we weren't going to get to 87 because we didn't think we were going to run at 85 for the next two quarters after we had run at 89.
So I was very clear we're not going to be at the bottom end of the range.
We still think we've got a shot at the upper end of the range.
If I had a clear indication we're going to be above 89 at that point I would have said so.
We didn't have a clear indication.
Now we look at it and say we have a pretty clear indication.
We're going to be below 89.5.
Who knows what October November and December will bring to us.
We're constantly updating severities.
There are some things that are  in terms of severities that whether it's on the physical damage side where given the dramatic spike in frequency it had both a stress on the number of people we have in the system and just the system itself  from itself body shops are busier auto parts.
So we had to sort through what that was doing to cost.
Matt and his team are working hard on that.
And then on body injury as you know those are long-dated claims.
So we want to make sure you get the reserves right and given the bump the volatility in both frequency and severity and bodily injury we've had to look hard at those.
So we feel good about the forecast.
I don't think you should read it as a huge change.
We provide the outlook to give you a sense of where the business is and as you know extremely well it is not the only impact to operating EPS.
So we try to just do it to give you a sense for the business.
Well I had you at 89.3 so it certainly isn't a big change from my perspective.
I just wanted to make sure there wasn't something startling in September that got you off your  if we had changed it we would have done it by now comment.
If I could just pivot to life with a quick follow-up what's the size of the redeployment and what's the yield loss? The Allstate Corp.</span></strong> So it was roughly $2 billion of long duration fixed income and if you look at the portfolio yield on the portfolio Bob it's about 5.60%.
These were longer duration assets so you probably should think of them as being a little bit higher yielding than the 5.60% overall yield and then the redeployments into three-year corporates and equities so you're probably looking at a proxy of around 2.25 until we get the performance based assets into the ground.
Those are pre-tax numbers right? The Allstate Corp.</span></strong> Yes.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cliff Gallant from Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I had a question about  I think one of your competitors in some states are allowed something called premium trend pricing.
I was wondering what your comment is on that as an underwriting tool particularly in a time like this? As an underwriting tool Cliff or as a pricing tool? Inc.</span></strong> As a pricing tool.
Okay.
Sorry.
It's Matt Cliff.
Yeah I can say that we've evaluated the use of monthly rating factors in the past.
We continue to look at it.
In some situations when you have slow and steady increase in the cost of insurance it works to your advantage.
In situations like we're in now where you have spikes in either frequency of severity it really doesn't do anything you can't do by just taking rate as indicated in those states.
So we continue to look at it.
We also know that not every state would permit it.
We believe that most of the states that permit it are file and use states anyway.
So if we're on top of our indication if we're monitoring as we do on a monthly basis we should be able to do anything that that technique allows you to do and do it more targeted more segmented in a more responsive fashion.
That puts everything in an auto play mode.
Ours is more of a hands on the wheel mode and that is what we believe is most appropriate in times of volatility and significant changes that we have as we do today.
Cliff I think often it's interesting as you watch people analyze our results and other people's results.
Everybody is looking for an answer to why.
Like why yours? Why theirs? I would say and this is like it's one of these complicated 1000-piece puzzles.
There's a variety of things that we all do differently and the thing to look at really is the way in which Matt's talked about the way we run this business in a highly targeted highly local highly analytical fashion.
We use as many tools as possible to compete effectively and get our returns back.
So I don't think there is any one silver answer as to is it geographic spread is it monthly rating thing is it telematics? There's a whole bunch of things that go into this complicated business.
I would just say we're highly focused on making sure we make money.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If I could be allowed a follow-up.
I was curious with the accident forgiveness program if there any  are you contemplating any changes to that? Do you think that that might be contributing to the frequency numbers? No.
I can give that as a short answer.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
It's just not used the  it's not used to such an extent.
It's priced appropriately.
We monitor it carefully.
And that's not a causal factor.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
And I'm sorry I will ask one more.
On Esurance we've seen such a slowdown in the growth rate.
And I'm just curious and from a  how is that slowdown affecting the organization? I know sometimes when you have such a go-go strong growth company and it slows that it can have an impact on how things work day-to-day.
Allstate Insurance Co.</span></strong> Yeah it's Don.
Let me try to address that.
I think there's an interesting twist to the question on how it's impacting the company.
I mean when we put the two businesses together obviously the strategy was to use Esurance to address the self-serve market that was still brand sensitive.
The business is roughly twice the size it was when we bought it and we've been running it with an eye towards investing for that growth.
So we've said consistently we're running it based on lifetime economic value.
That said the business is about twice the size now.
And so as a larger part of the Allstate portfolio we do want it to get to the point where that size begins to generate appropriate profitability as well.
So I feel really good about where they are as a business.
They had a great quarter.
They are on the right path.
They've done a terrific job of getting  in spite of the drop in marketing getting the company still to grow.
If you look at their combined ratio and loss ratios they had a really strong trend over the last few quarters.
Loss ratio is down pretty dramatically again this quarter.
Expenses are down largely due to marketing.
So I think they've done a good job.
Now having said that they are still growing.
They are still expanding states they are still expanding products.
In the Q we disclosed we've still got almost 2.5 points of investment in expansion of their business.
So I don't view this as a business that should grow 3% for the rest of eternity.
I think this was an important inflection point to consolidate the gains we've had from a volume point of view and get the business to the point where operationally and from a loss ratio perspective is profitable but we have not stopped investing in that business for growth in any way.
And so if I circle back to then how does the team feel I think they feel fabulous.
They're proud of the combined ratios they're running.
They're proud of the fact that they are still growing in spite of lower marketing and the focus on profitability.
So all-in-all we are delighted with what we've set out to do in the last three years or four years and where they are right now.
Yeah.
And I would say we built a strong team there.
So some of the people are those that we acquired and Jonathan Adkisson who runs it who's been there for a long time run it well.
The financial person has been there a long time.
We brought in some new claims capabilities because as Don pointed out you grow twice in size you get twice as many claim people.
Plus we have more Esurance eyes on Esurance cars as opposed to using third parties.
So I feel like this is actually a really good time to consolidate our skills and capabilities to go to the next level of growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nannizzi from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Just wanted to just touch on the expense  can you quantify Tom how much of the expense ratio increase was  or expense ratio decline was a reduction in advertising? Hey Mike.
That shows up in the Q.
There's a table in the Q you can get to the specific number.
Okay.
And so I guess...
But Mike I will tell you.
I don't think  we cut advertising but we're not doing it in such a fashion that it hurts our long-term brand or market position.
We just felt like we shouldn't continue to lean in and advertise and drive quotes when in fact we had tightened underwriting standards.
Got it.
And then  so certainly I mean the expense ratio improved the loss ratio is up  year-over-year it's up sequentially.
I mean is that a lever that you feel like you can continue to pull like is this a manageable level of expenses for the enterprise to run at in the near-term? Well Matt mentioned what we're working to do.
I don't think you  it'll probably go up some over the course of time.
We're not trying to  it's not like we're  we really are focused on making sure we do everything possible to get our short-term goals without throwing out our long-term growth or long-term strategy.
So whether that's technology advertising investing in expanding products like homeowners at Esurance or expanding our benefits business into Canada we're pushing hard on all of those things.
So I think you should expect to see us manage between those.
Are we always focused on cost? Yes.
Did we decide in this quarter because we take our outlooks seriously and we said let's just not spend the money if we don't need to.
So we didn't.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Newsome from Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning.
This is actually meant as a little bit of a softball question.
Could you talk about just how the trajectory of improvement would happen for the price increases over time given the accounting for insurance and the fact that you've got a mix of six-month and one month policies? I am just wondering if maybe people  at least some people out there maybe have gotten a little ahead of themselves in terms of how quickly the underlying combined ratio improves given the efforts that you are doing just the natural lag.
Paul first I always think your questions are thoughtful.
So there's two lines to look at.
If you go back to Pat's slide there's a blue line and the red line.
The blue line is the increase in the earned premiums and of course what that  it starts with the rate increases which we show on the bottom of that slide then it goes to what you actually write.
There's usually a little bit of leakage between there because what happens is customers raise their deductibles which actually improves  it still gives you the same impact as raising prices it just doesn't show up in the blue line it shows up in the red line in that the severities go down a little bit.
But then you have it written and then it takes a while to come through earned.
You can track those two written and earned and do some analysis of that and actually determine how it burns through.
You could also do the same thing in between the rate taken.
And so you could build a model that would help you on that part.
The trickier part of your question is what to do with the red line.
And the red line is our cost which is obviously frequency and severity that bounces around obviously by quarter.
So you have to kind of  what we tend to do is smooth it with various portions of time.
We look at it on the latest quarter we look at latest month we look at it over six months 12 months and you'd have to look at the frequency and severity.
I think it's unclear yet where as Matt pointed out let's just call it the top of frequency is.
It's hard to tell but what we do know is as long as it continues to go up our blue line will continue to go up.
So what we tend to do is look at the difference between those and what we are trying to do is have the earned premium go up faster than the  what we would  the combination of frequency and severity go up.
And you can't (56:41) see when those lines cross.
And when they cross then that's when you get the automatic drop in the combined ratio.
So I can't give you a specific quarter because none of us really know what will happen with the red line.
What we do know is as long as the red line is going up so is our blue line.
And our blue line should go up by more than the red line.
Thank you.
And then separate question.
I personally cover a lot of regional insurers and they seem to be mostly independent agent channel personal line type businesses there.
They are similar and they seem to be frankly having quite a bit of trouble with a lot of scale issues.
Given that sort of environment given what we have seen with frequency any thoughts longer-term about your independent agent channel whether or not it needs more scale or not? Well it's a good question.
First I would start with the independent agency channel exists because there are some customers who don't really care which insurance company they have don't necessarily have the highest level of trust in insurance companies and trust a local advisor to help them select between those companies and give them the right coverage because they don't want to do it themselves.
So as long as those customers exist the function and role of the independent agencies will continue to be important.
That role over the last 30 years has gotten smaller.
That used to be a bigger portion of the market but it leveled out at about 30% of the market or so.
As technology has helped people do more self-serve and that kind of stuff it could be under a little more pressure but I think you will continually see people that don't want to do work themselves and don't necessarily have a trusted brand in mind that they want to pick from.
As it relates to scale on the independent agency company that service that channel scale does matter.
It matters more and more each year whether that's on data technology ability to negotiate lower cost with people.
So I think you will continue to see a reduction in the share of small carriers really in all four of the channels which is why we are trying to be in all four of those so we can leverage our scale across all of those.
That said it is a slow process because many of the companies you're talking about tend to be mutual companies.
Over about half of the business is held by mutual companies and they tend to have an extremely high level of capitalization.
And so they can wait a long time before they have to get out of the business.
And we'll take one last question and then we'll wrap up.
Certainly.
Our final question then comes from the line of Ian Gutterman from Balyasny.
Your question please.
Hi thanks.
Matt do you view ISO fast-track data as a reasonable proxy for the loss trends you are seeing? Reasonable proxy? I'll get in trouble no matter how I answer that.
We look at fast track data.
Ian it's informative.
I think it's directionally correct.
And I think it is  it shows us  it confirms for us what we're seeing in the marketplace.
But like almost every third party data source and this is true for all the rate services that are out there we look at those all the time and there are some data issues with them.
There are some reporting issues from certain states.
So I don't think that they are ever determinative.
They are only good indicators.
Okay.
The reason I asked is it  the data seems to suggest that there is more of a geographic bias to what's going on than what you guys have suggested the past few quarters.
I was curious if you agree with that part of it.
Has anything changed in what you've seen over the last quarter to suggest that maybe this isn't as uniform as you thought in the past that maybe it is a little bit more in certain pockets like California and some other areas.
Yes.
So Ian I don't think I ever said it was uniform.
I said it was country-wide.
But it varied by geography and yes I do agree with that.
I think as the Dowling report the IBNR weekly from the middle of October talked about the geographic differences explaining much of the discrepancy and frequency trends across underwriters I think we do see that.
We certainly see pockets and Tom referred to it on this call already of pockets of geographies where the frequency trends are hitting harder than others.
I referred to it on my last call too.
Miles driven is not uniform across the country and when you look at the Department of Transportation reports there are geographic differences of the miles driven Northeast actually not up so much other areas of the country up significantly more.
So yes I do think geographic differences explain some of it.
We see geographic differences.
When I say it's country-wide what I'm referring to it is widespread.
It's not as if this is a localized issue where we did something wrong or we fail to implement the rating plan properly in a state.
That's why I refer to the country-wide impact.
It is everywhere but it is at different levels in each geography.
Got it.
I got that.
In a sense what we are seeing you see the one movie which is the movie we report which has country-wide numbers.
We have 50 movies 100 movies 200 movies we are watching.
And we adjust for each of those movies.
So whether it is a particular state a particular risk class or a particular product line so we are always adjusting.
And that's the way our process in business model works.
Thank you all for your questions and insights.
I'll try to be respectful of your time.
Just know we continue to balance both the short-term and long-term initiatives so we are creating shareholder value and driving long-term growth.
So thank you all and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Allstate Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Mr.
Pat Macellaro Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan.
Good morning and welcome everyone to Allstate's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
After prepared remarks by Tom Wilson Steve Shebik and myself we'll have a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday following the close of the market we issued our news release and investor supplement and posted the results presentation we will use this morning in conjunction with our prepared remarks.
All of these documents are available on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
We plan to file our 2015 Form 10-K later this month.
As noted on the first slide our discussion today will contain forward-looking statements regarding Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2014 the slides and our most recent news release for information on potential risks.
Also this discussion will contain some non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in our news release and in our investor supplement.
We're recording the call today and a replay will be available following its conclusion.
I'll be available to answer any follow-up questions you may have after the call.
And now we'll turn it over Tom Wilson.
Well good morning.
Thank you for investing time to keep up on our progress at Allstate.
I'll cover an overview of the results and then Pat and Steve will take you through the details.
Our comments today are more detailed on four topics to make sure we provide you with good transparency.
I will spend some time discussing our rationale for 2016s underlying combined ratio outlook Pat will provide more detail on the auto profitability plan Steve will discuss the asset liability investment decisions including Allstate's financial  operating income and the impact that has on operating income.
And then Steve is also going to provide some prospective on the overall investment portfolio.
That will include both the investments including limited partnerships and energy.
Also in the room today to answer any questions on any and all topics are Matt Winter our President; Don Civgin who leads our Emerging Businesses; Judith Greffin our Chief Investment Officer; and Sam Pilch our Corporate Controller.
So let's begin on Slide 2.
We finished 2015 with a strong fourth quarter that was driven by our repositioned homeowners business continued progress in executing our auto insurance profit improvement plan and reducing expenses.
The underlying property liability combined ratio for the fourth quarter was 87.4 which brought the full year result to 88.7 which was within the original annual outlook range we gave last year at this time.
The recorded combined ratio in the fourth quarter was 92.0 which generated $611 million of underwriting income.
The comprehensive program we implemented shortly after a significant increase in auto accident frequency and claim severities include seeking higher approval for auto insurance prices making changes to our underwriting standards to slow new business growth and addressing underperforming segments that does both of those and reducing expenses.
This proactive approach however did not offset the impact to the external trend and underwriting profits from our auto insurance declined significantly in 2015.
Continued strong results from homeowners insurance and moderate catastrophe losses resulted in operating income of $1.60 per diluted common share for the quarter and $5.19 for the full year.
And the return on equity on an operating income basis was 11.6% in 2015 down 1% from the prior year.
Common shareholders received $691 million in cash during the fourth quarter and $3.3 billion for the full year through a combination of common share dividends and share repurchases.
If you move to the chart on the bottom of the slide revenues were up 1.2% for 2015 and property liability premiums grew by 4.8%.
Net investment income declined 8.8% compared to the prior year and that reflects a smaller balance sheet which is due to the sale of Lincoln Benefit in April of 2014 and the continued downsizing of our annuity business lower interest income which resulted from shortening the duration of our fixed income portfolio and a slight decline in income from performance-based investments.
Net income for the year was $2.055 billion which was $5.05 per diluted common share.
If you go to Slide 3 it shows our full year operating results for our four property liability customer segments.
So total policy in force growth across all brands was 1.3% in 2015 as you can see at the top and the recorded combined ratio was 94.9.
The Allstate brand which is in the lower left is our largest segment and comprises 90% of premiums written and it serves customers who prefer a branded product and value local advice and assistance.
Allstate brand total policies in force in 2015 were 1.7% higher than 2014.
Auto insurance which is on the left-hand side of that box new business and retention were both impacted by profit improvement actions but policy still increased by 2.1% for the year.
Homeowner policies grew over the prior year at a rate of 1.1% and other personal lines grew by 2.7% compared to 2014.
The underlying combined ratio was a strong 87.4 for this segment at year-end 2015 as you can see in the red box at the bottom.
Esurance in the lower right serves customers that prefer a branded product but are comfortable handling their own insurance needs.
Growth was slow throughout2015 in this segment as our focus shifted to profit improvement.
Policies in force were 1.4% higher at the end of 2015 than the prior year and net written premiums grew by 6.6%.
The underlying loss ratio in Esurance improved by 1.2 points in 2015 and they neared 75.4.
As a result the underlying combined ratio declined to 108.4 which includes about 4 points due to a number of expansion initiatives.
Encompassed in the upper left competes for customers that want local advice but are less concerned about their choice of insurance company.
This business decreased in size in 2015 as policies in force declined by 8.2% from a year ago due to lower new business and retention which is largely a result of price increases and underwriting changes.
The net written premium decline of 2.8% for 2015 that reflects higher average premiums from increasing rates to improved returns.
The underlying combined ratio was 92.6 for 2015 which was 1.1 points better than the prior year.
Answer Financial in the upper right that serves brand-new self service customers is essentially an aggregator that does not underwrite insurance risks.
Total non-proprietary written premiums of $581 million in 2015 were 10% higher than the prior year.
So let us go to Slide 4 looking forward to 2016 we expect our annual underlying combined ratio to be in the range of 88 to 90.
That range is comprised of a number of key assumptions.
First we assume that we continued improvement in auto insurance profitability across all three brands given the profit improvement actions we undertook in 2015 and that will continue in 2016.
We do expect modest increases in both auto accident frequency and claim severity which reflects the broad based trends we experienced in 2015.
Third we assume the homeowners underlying combined ratio will increase slightly from last year's level and as our profit improvements are realized as we start to realize the benefit of the lower combined ratio we will continue to invest to generate long-term value which will likely increase our expense ratio.
As you know of course predicting frequency and loss trends in a rapidly changing external environment is difficult.
As a result we put a range on our outlook every year.
Now what you also know is that we react quickly to trends whether they are positive or negative to adapt our business priorities so we are building long-term shareholder value.
So our operating priorities for 2016 are designed to build long-term value and as you can see they are generally the same as 2015.
Serving our customers and generating returns on shareholder capital are two top priorities and they are central to our plan.
When we do these well we grow insurance policies in force.
We intentionally slowed auto insurance growth in 2015 to improve auto margins since new business typically has a higher loss ratio than more tenured business.
New auto insurance volumes in the Allstate brand declined by 24% in the fourth quarter as a result of tighter underwriting lower advertising and increased prices.
While these actions are necessary they are also flexible.
So our appetite for new business will increase as the auto profit improvement efforts translate into a lower combined ratio.
The largest factor in overall growth however is the rate at which we retain customers.
The auto retention rate declined in the fourth quarter in part reflecting higher auto insurance prices.
We are implementing actions to reduce the impact that will have on growth but what competitors do in their pricing is also a major driver and that is not controllable.
So our 2016 growth plans and prospects vary by customer segment.
Growth in the Allstate brand auto insurance will depend on the timing of the successful implementation of auto profitability action and competitors pricing action.
The sooner we see a lower combined ratio the sooner we will increase new business.
We do have growth plans in place for homeowners and other personal lines policies given the attractive returns on those products.
We expect Esurance and Allstate Benefits to continue to grow in 2016.
Encompass had a decline in policies in force in 2015 and is not yet in a position to grow.
So we are still committed to growing policy in force across the company but it will be more difficult in 2016 than it has been in the past.
Pat will now go through the property liability results in more detail.
Thanks Tom.
Let's start with a review of our Property-Liability results on Slide 5.
Beginning with the chart on the top of this page Property-Liability net written premium of $30.9 billion in 2015 grew $1.3 billion or 4.2% over 2015.
The recorded combined ratio for the year of 94.9 increased one point versus 2014 driven by an increase in auto losses which was partially offset by lower expenses strong homeowner underlying margins and catastrophe losses of $1.7 billion which was 13.7% lower than 2014.
As Tom mentioned earlier the year-end 2015 underlying combined ratio of 88.7 while 1.5 points higher than 2014 finished within our original annual guidance range given the strong results in the fourth quarter.
Net investment income for the Property-Liability segment decreased 4.9% from the prior year due primarily to lower performance based investment income.
Property-Liability operating income in 2015 was $1.9 billion which was 8.2% lower than 2014.
The chart on the lower left-hand side of this page shows Property-Liability net written premium and policy in force growth rates.
The red line representing policy in force growth versus the prior year shows a slowing growth rate of 1.3% given the actions in place across all three underwriting brands to improve auto margins.
Even with these headwinds we grew policy counts 449 000 to 34.6 million in 2015 compared to 2014.
The Allstate brand accounted for almost all policy growth in 2015 as Esurance policy growth slowed and Encompass policies were lower than 2014.
These policy growth results exclude 5.6 million Allstate Financial policies which grew by 6.1% in 2015 driven by 11.1% policy growth in Allstate Benefits.
Average premium increases to reflect higher costs resulted in the net written premium trends you see shown by the blue line.
The bottom right-hand side of this page shows property liability recorded and underlying combined ratio results.
The recorded and underlying combined ratios both finished the year strong compared to results earlier in the year given our actions to improve auto returns.
The underlying property liability combined ratio in the fourth quarter of 2015 was 87.4 and was 2.1 points lower than the fourth quarter of 2014.
Slide 6 highlights the margin trends for Allstate brand auto and Allstate brand homeowners.
The chart on the top left of this page provides a view of quarterly recorded and underlying margin performance for Allstate's brand auto.
As Tom mentioned earlier our fourth-quarter results continued to be impacted by elevated frequency and severity as they have been since the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our efforts to respond to higher cost trends to price underwriting and expense management resulted in an underlying combined ratio of 97.6 in the fourth quarter of 2015 which was six tenths of a point improvement from the fourth quarter a year ago.
On a sequential basis the underlying combined ratio improved by half a point compared to the third quarter of 2015.
The chart on the top right highlights the trends driving the change in the Allstate brand auto underlying combined ratio.
Annualized average earned premium per policy shown by the blue line continued to show upward momentum as rate increases implemented throughout 2015 resulted in a 3.9% increase in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the quarter a year ago.
Average underlying losses and expenses per policy in the fourth quarter of 2015 increased 3.2% compared with the fourth quarter of 2014 given the influence of higher frequency and severity of lower expenses per policy.
The gap between these two points remains positive but it is smaller than where it has been historically.
Similar information is shown for Allstate brand homeowners on the bottom of this page.
On the bottom left you can see that the favorable impact from low catastrophes that we experienced for most of 2015 continued in the fourth quarter resulting in the 71 Allstate brand homeowners recorded combined ratio.
Lower frequency of fire claims in the fourth quarter benefited the underlying homeowners combined ratio which at 56 was 5 points below the results in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Components of the fourth quarter homeowners underlying combined ratio are in the chart on the bottom right.
Average earned premium per policy increased to $1085 or 1.9% over the prior year quarter.
Underlying losses per policy decreased 6.6% in the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 resulting in continuing favorable underlying gap between the two trends.
Slide 7 provides some context on combined ratio and top line trends for both Esurance and Encompass.
The chart on the top of this page includes fourth-quarter and annual combined ratio results for both companies.
Esurances recorded combined ratio of 107 in the fourth quarter of 2015 was 8.5 points lower than the same period a year ago given decreased investment in marketing along with a 5 point improvement in the loss ratio which is reflective of ongoing actions taken in the business to improve auto returns.
Esurances combined ratio of 110.3 in 2015 improved by 7.4 points compared to 2014.
Encompass recorded combined ratio of 95.5 in the fourth quarter of 2015 was 2.4 points worse than the prior year quarter and was adversely impacted by 2.9 points of higher catastrophe losses compared to the prior year quarter.
Encompass combined ratio of 102 in 2015 was 4.1 points better than the full year results in 2014.
The two charts on the bottom of this page show how growth is being impacted by profit improvement actions in both of the brands.
In Esurance policy in force growth slowed to 1.4% over the prior year and continued to decline sequentially while net written premium grew by 5.3% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
In Encompass net written premium declined by 5.5% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 as the 8.2% decline in policy in force more than offset higher average premiums from increased rates and underwriting actions.
As with the Allstate brand we continue to evaluate our results and will adjust profit improvement actions to ensure returns in both of these brands are appropriate.
Slide 8 provides an update on our ongoing plan to improve auto returns.
As we discussed throughout 2015 our auto profit improvement plan is comprised of four parts which we have designed to work together to address the higher loss trends we are experiencing.
First we have sought approval for higher auto rate across the country.
Second we have implemented underwriting changes to slow new business and address specific underperforming segments of business.
Along with underwriting changes we have also increased our ongoing credit classification programs.
Third we focused on claims operational excellence and precision.
And fourth we have reduced expenses across the organization to quickly impact the combined ratio while the other components took hold.
These actions in total helped us to finish 2015 within our underlying combined ratio guidance range.
Details to the fourth quarter of 2015 are shown on the bottom of this slide.
Approved auto rate increases for all three underlying brands in the fourth quarter of 2015 are worth $401 million in net written premium while the total amount of approved rate increases for 2015 in total were worth $1.1 billion in net written premium the highest amount of approved auto rate increases in over 10 years.
We also continued to intentionally slow new business and make underwriting changes on isolated underperforming segments of business and geographies across the country to improve auto returns.
These underwriting actions in conjunction with our credit classification programs and price increases have slowed new business and impacted retention.
As Tom mentioned earlier all of these actions are flexible and they are all driven by local market conditions.
We will continue to adjust them selectively for market-to-market as auto returns improve.
Maintaining claims operational excellence and precision also continue to be priorities given cost trends that we and others in the industry are experiencing.
Property liability expense ratio decreased by 2.8 points in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 and was 1.2 points lower than 2014 at year-end reflecting expense actions taken across the company.
You can see the impact by underwriting brand in the chart on the lower left.
These actions included reductions in advertising in the Allstate and Esurance brands as well as professional services costs and lower compensation incentives across the company.
The bottom right-hand chart shows the net written premium amounts generated by the rates we have received approval for over the past three years across all three underwriting brands.
The Allstate brand represents the largest component of these rate increases accounting for $942 million of the $1.1 billion for the full year of 2015 and $342 million of $401 million for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Rate and underwriting changes will drive customers to shop their insurance with other carriers not renew their policies or change their level of coverage which will result in lower levels of premium in aggregate than what is shown on this chart.
Allstate agency owners and their staff proactively consult with their customers during the insurance review process to arrive at the best coverage and deductible options for their specific situations and needs.
We feel that having a trusted advisor to help guide customers understanding of protection needs during a period of rising auto prices across the industry is a key competitive advantage for us.
This analysis only includes rates approved through December 31st.
We continue to evaluate and run our business on a local market-by-market basis and continue to adjust our actions going forward whether it be through price underwriting claims excellence or expense management to ensure appropriate auto returns.
And now I will turn it over to Steve who will cover Allstate Financial investments and capital management.
Thanks Pat.
Slide 9 provides an overview of Allstate Financial's results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 as highlighted on the top of the slide.
Overall we have made good progress and narrowed Allstate Financial's focus and positioned the business to support long-term value creation.
In 2015 we continued our efforts to fully integrate the life and retirement business into the Allstate brand customer value proposition and repositioned the investment portfolio supporting our immediate annuities.
Premiums and contract charges in 2015 increased 4.2% when excluding the impact of the 2014 results of Lincoln Benefit Life Company driven by 5.7% growth in Allstate Benefits' accident and health insurance business as well as a 7.3% increase in traditional life insurance premiums.
Operating income for 2015 of $509 million was 16.1% lower than 2014 driven primarily by higher life insurance claims the disposition of LBL and lower investment income.
In the fourth quarter operating income of $98 million was $30 million below the prior year quarter driven by a lower fixed income yield and a decrease in performance based long-term investment income.
The bottom half of the slide depicts the liabilities and investments of our immediate annuity business.
The approximately $12 billion of liabilities payout over the next 40 plus years our investment strategy is to match near term cash flows with fixed income and commercial mortgages.
However for longer-term liabilities we believe equity investments provide the best risk-adjusted returns.
As such in the third quarter we sold approximately $2 billion of long duration fixed income securities to make the portfolio less sensitive to rising interest rates.
Sale proceeds were invested in shorter duration fixed income and public equity securities which will lower net investment income in the near-term.
Over time we will shift the majority of the proceeds to performance based investments that we expect to deliver attractive long-term economic returns although income will be volatile from quarter-to-quarter.
Moving onto Slide 10 and investments.
I will start with our portfolio composition at the top of the slide.
We have a diverse $77.8 billion portfolio.
Fixed income represents 74% of the portfolio value with $8.6 billion or 15% below investment grade.
As we have discussed previously we are increasing and shifting the risk posture of our portfolio to deliver more attractive long-term returns.
We traded capacity for this incremental risk by strengthening our capital position through issuing preferred securities reducing debt exposure reduction to catastrophe prone regions and shrinking our annuity business over the past two or three years.
We are utilizing a portion of that capacity in our investment portfolio to increase idiosyncratic risk through performance based investing and selectively increasing our high yield holdings.
Our high yield portfolio is conservatively positioned relative to the broader market weighted meaningfully towards BB and to a lesser extent single B issuers.
We have also managed with [Indiscernible] to certain sectors including metals and mining and energy.
Our portfolio breakdown by investment approach is at the bottom left.
Within the context of these four approaches we target asset mix that reflects our risk tolerance and liability profile.
Our market based core by far the largest part of the portfolio delivers predictable earnings aligned to our business needs.
We seek to outperform the public markets and take advantage of volatility through our market based active strategy.
We will be growing allocation through performance based investments both [long-term] and opportunistic including private equity and real estate partnerships and direct investments.
The majority of our energy holding shown in the middle table are investment grade corporate bonds.
We are conservatively positioned versus the broader energy market preferring midstream and higher quality exploration and production players which we believe are better equipped to withstand the dislocation of energy prices.
With that said this is a dynamic environment and the implications of the falling energy prices are being felt across the market.
During the fourth quarter 47 million of the trading loss is 82 million of the recognized impairments related to energy holdings.
Losses were split between public and private securities.
Details of limited partnership holdings in our performance-based long term strategy are shown in the table on the right.
Approximately three quarters of these investments are in private equity including timber and agriculture and one quarter in real-estate [indiscernible] over the term EMA.
Our performance based long-term strategy had strong results despite a lower fourth quarter with 2015 being our second highest income year.
We received significant cash distributions from realization in this portfolio which have reduced the amount on distributed income related to our EMA investments.
Moving now to Slide 11.
Net investment income was $710 million in total for the quarter and 3.2 billion for the full-year of 2015.
Investment income and yield by business segment is provided at the top of this slide.
In addition to a multi-year shift in the long-term mix we continue to proactively manage the portfolio in light of current economic and market conditions.
This includes reducing the duration of our fixed income holdings in both the property-liability and Allstate Financial portfolios with a belief that the markets were not providing sufficient compensation for taking interest rate risk in the low yield environment.
To left is property-liability.
Reduce our interest rate risk in this portfolio in 2013 which resulted in a lower yield to the Allstate Financial portfolio.
Yield is now increasing reflecting our increased allocation to high yield bonds as well as reinvestment in the higher interest rates are continued shift of the portfolios performance-based long-term investments.
To the right is Allstate Financial.
We took actions in 2015 to make the portfolio less sensitive to rising interest rates.
As I covered a bit earlier in talking about the immediate annuity business which reflected in a lower interest bearing yield in 2015.
Moving to the bottom half of the slide at the left is our GAAP total return.
The investment income component of return has been fairly consistent or the valuation contribution was negative in 2015 on wider credit spreads across the market with the majority attributed in our returns to invest in great securities given a weight in our portfolio.
In the middle is our realized capital gains and losses.
In 2015 we had a net capital gain of $30 million which included 470 million of net gains on sales including the gain and long duration fixed income securities we saw from the Allstate Financial portfolio.
Largely offset by impairments and intent write-downs.
The impact of lower valuations can be seen in the decrease on our fixed income unrealized gains in the chart to the right.
Slide 12 provides an overview of our capital position and highlights the cash returns common shareholder received out 2015.
Allstate remains in a position of financial strength and strategic flexibility.
Our deployable holding company assets totaled $2.6 billion at December 31 2015.
Book value per common share was $47.34 as of year-end 2015 down 1.9% from 2014 reflecting lower unrealized net capital gains in losses on fixed income securities.
Excluding this impact book value per common share was 4.2% in 2015 versus 2014.
We returned 3.3 billion in cash to common shareholders in 2015 to a combination of common dividends and common share repurchases.
We repurchased 9.3 million common shares for $572 million during the fourth quarter of 2015 which brought the annual total to 42.8 million shares 10.2% of our beginning of year common shares outstanding.
As of December 31 we have 532 million remaining our current repurchase authorization which we expect to complete by July 2016.
Now let's open it up to call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
My first question I guess is just on the expense side.
I appreciate there's a good amount of flexibility there whether it's advertising expenses or slower incentive comp.
But I guess in the base case that you highlighted in your guidance that assumes I guess some step-up in severity and frequency.
How should we think about the Allstate brand expense ratio? I'll make an over a comment and Matt might have some perspective as well.
First you should expect the expense ratio to go up because we this year to make our goal we did cut advertising I wanted to improve some of the effectiveness to the advertising stuff anyway which move through advertising.
And then we took some nice to do technology stuff and differed it and decided not to do it and cut some other expenses.
And if you look at it over the quarters you can see we increasingly reduced our expenses throughout the year which was a focus.
That said there were a number of things we're investing heavily and in one investment in term of either long-term growth or short-term growth everything from technology I mentioned to things like telematics.
Matthew you want to add anything to that? I think the only thing I would add Ryan is that as Tom said in his prepared remarks as we see the combined ratio in each local geography getting to an appropriate point in our loss ratios getting where they need to be in the profit improvement actions fully taking hold in rate burning in.
We will want to be able to stimulate growth in selected areas as long as we're earning appropriate return and growth requires some investment.
And so part of the expense ratio this year will be influenced by our growth plan and when we're able to turn on growth in certain areas and when we want to invest.
We're focused on long-term value creation.
And long-term value creation does require some investment but it requires investment with appropriate levels of profitability.
And so it's flexible it will go up the degree it goes up will depend upon thoughtful analysis of whether or not we add appropriate profitability appropriate margin and whether or not we're going to earn an appropriate return on the investment.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then my follow-up is just I guess in the supplement you guys a few quarters ago started breaking out gross versus paid frequency.
In a way I understand it as you incur the losses based on what the gross frequency is and that's also what I think you guys tend to talk about what the investment community tends to talk about.
But the paid frequency number has been running significantly below the gross over the past several quarters.
I'm just wondering how we should think about that is there a possibility that you've been over-estimating what frequency is? Ryan at first we think our reserves are properly established.
So we do that in a bunch of different ways.
We look at both gross and net.
We look at what the original amount -- we do it by claims.
So when a claim comes up we put up some dollar amount toward then as they adjust -- more they keep building that up and at least to an incurred.
And then obviously we think that we have to factor in future upward development in that.
So we look at that as well.
So we look at paid incurred incurred but not reported and we come up with a number obviously for things like physical damage claims where they really settled out in about 90 days.
That tends to run through pretty quickly.
The bottom of the injury where it takes about four years before you get 80% paid out has a little bit longer trend line on it.
And as a result of that longer trend line you tend to have more process changes along the way because you do things differently every year.
And so that never tends to bounce around a little more.
But I think we're appropriately reserved.
I dont think you should think there was more or less in there then than we thought it.
It's the right number.
Thanks.
I'll stop there.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
A two question.
Tom the first one's a revisiting last quarter actually.
We talked about the 4Q auto acts and seasonality that did not seem to appear this quarter.
In the end is it just a dream or is there something really there or what do you think? Josh its Matt.
Hi Matt.
How are you? I'm going to refer you to a page in the appendix that we put in there.
If you look at the presentation slide 14 there is a whole bunch of drivers of the combined ratio and whole bunch of drivers are these in frequency.
Some of them are controllable some of them are uncontrollable.
Some of them we can manage and some we can't.
Even within the ones that are somewhat manageable like new business quality and volume of new business and geographic mix there's also some things that you just can't predict.
Seasonality and weather especially is one of those completely unpredictable pieces of this puzzle.
And so when we look at year-over-year you can look back we have some charts to show fourth quarter seasonality that tend to spike up and then you have last year where we had almost no catastrophes and benign weather and this year much more normalized catastrophe year but I would say also a more normalized weather environment.
Seasonality is one of those high level generalities that tends to pan out over multiple years but you can have dislocation and abrasions in that on a year-by-year and quarter-by-quarter basis.
So I would not draw trend line conclusions based upon one or two quarters and how they appear versus previous quarters.
And Josh I don't know if I'm reading into your question but it sounded like frequency was actually up quite a bit in the fourth quarter.
So I couldn't tell what your underlying assumption is.
Matt has slide in there as well and the increase in frequency in the fourth quarter.
I would -- just look in the past and I have always am anticipating fourth quarter being a tough comp every year.
My other question look I listened to your prepared remarks and I know you are going to invest in the future and home owners can change a little bit but you did an 88.7% underlying combined ratio firm wide for 2015.
And you have a 5.5% rate increases coming through on the auto side that you've guided to 88% to 90% underlying for 2016.
It seems to me a very hard thing to believe that there is world where the underlying combined ratio is going to be worse in 2016 than it was in 2015.
Are you just being conservative or I mean do you really think that that's the right range and 89% with a plus or minus one around it? We think it's the right range.
I think we've been doing this since I became CEO.
I think it's like it's maybe the ninth or 10<sup>th</sup> year that I've done this.
We've never missed it.
So we do it.
So that we think it's the right range but that's reasonable.
You get a point swing either way from frequency and severity.
I mean you can get as Matt mentioned you can't predict frequency and to be honest it's really difficult to predict severity within a point.
So that alone gives you two points spread.
There have been some years Josh where we've had a three point spread but that was when we weren't sure how quickly the home owners business is going to take hold and we did quite well.
We got ahead of that and it was faster than we had done in our modeling.
But we do a lot of statistical modeling around this.
We think it's about right I mean if you are right we will see a lot of rate come through that $1.1 billion.
And if loss cost and which is result of frequency and severity keep going up which is what we have in our projections we'll put more in rate increases.
So no we think its the right number.
I am not we set it up to get there and if you want to assume your case then that would in the middle of the range.
We don't get to a precise so we do at this tangible point.
It's like I like to give just round numbers and we think 88 to 90 will be in that range.
All right.
Well good luck and I hope it will be even better than that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Your question please.
Thanks and good morning and congrats on the trend.
Maybe two quick follow-up on Josh's question.
First of all just going back to the discussion on guidance and rate increases how should we think about future rate increases you've obviously have meaningful rate increases over the past few quarters.
Are you factoring in that based on where we stand that number to diminish or continue to ramp up from here? It will be reflective of our results in the cost basis.
So if frequency and severity continue to increase you'll continue to see us going to individual states with targeted rate increases.
If it moderates and I think we should expect to see it come down but we can't we don't know for sure.
So I guess related to that is what -- I mean what are you baking in for frequency and severity here? We have a plan obviously that we have frequency and severity but when we move to do -- when we got away from EPS guidance which I thought in our business didn't make a lot of sense.
We said we'll give you an underlying combined ratio guidance which excludes catastrophe.
So things we can pretty much predict we think at 88 to 90 what happens with increases in frequency and severity we can manage to it with the premium increases we will be able to get next year.
Okay.
We don't give out this specific sub-components.
They just ends up being it helps people do their models but it turns our conversations into one of modeling as opposed to the pace of the business.
We feel good about the business where it is we'd like to make more money in auto insurance even though the returns are above our cost of capital.
We've made much higher returns in that at our competitive position and strength enabled us to do that and we are headed down that path.
When we get there we will be dependent what happens with the external environment.
Got it.
That's fair enough.
And just like there are some external factors I know Josh was asking about this.
One of the questions you were getting was the benign sort of weather in Q4.
If you were to normalize it would it be materially different what you are looking at in charts I guess 21 and 22 or would it be modestly different? Well let me talk about so the fourth quarter we came in and we were able to get with insight our range.
So at 88 seven for the year.
The good weather really was a result -- wasn't really good weather necessarily.
The home owners business feel a little better because we had fewer fire losses which tend to be big losses.
I don't know whether that's weather or just luck.
We obviously on the other end of that which is completely controllable as Matt pointed out is expensive.
We did a good job getting expenses down because we want to be within the range.
And then the profit improvement actions did start to go through but Matt maybe lets -- maybe Matt taken to Slide 15 which shows the frequency.
Just so because I think everyone saying it's like benign weather and like we had a big increase in our frequency in the fourth quarter and I don't want you to walk away thinking that it wasn't there.
Yes.
So Tom referred to Slide 15.
What Slide 15 does is show what we believe is one of the primary drivers of frequency as we talked about on almost every call frequency is driven by primarily miles driven but also weather distracted driving new business volume new business quality and underwriting and miles driven itself is driven by employment or even gas prices.
We know what's happened to both of those over this last year.
One of the confusing things is that I have referred in the past to the fact that the frequency trend is wide spread.
But I think some of you have taken that to me that it is consistent across the country.
It is widespread but it is not consistent across the country in fact it's geographically varied.
And Slide 15 is just some data from the federal highway administration that shows how miles driven as of November versus prior year has gone up in each of the different regions and you will notice that in the North East it only went up 2.9 while in the West it went up 5.5 and South Atlantic 5.1 etcetera.
So this is one driver but it's a major driver and it does help to explain some of the other questions that you've been raising about why different companies have different experiences.
They have different geographic concentrations of their business books of business and the miles driven in those areas is different.
It will clearly impact results.
Got it.
Okay.
This is very helpful.
Thanks for the answers.
Thanks thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Montgomery.
Your question please.
Good morning Allstate.
Just an observation to when you hit your forecast nine years in a row I guess it's another way of saying you tend to be conservative with your outlooks because no one is that good to be able to forecast.
My question --.
And that's your way to say.
And Bob I will say that we have a good system we have a great team.
They are goal driven.
They know how to deliver what we said we would deliver.
If you had asked me as last year when we gave our range of 87 89 did I think frequency and severity were in a clip up at above five points I would have said "No".
So the point is you really can't forecast frequency and that what I -- we can do is tell you given the strengthen of our system and the transparency we have our management process is in place we think we can manage to 88 to 90 next year and so that we've set out to do.
If we do better than that then that will be because we reacted well and did well but we don't set it up so we can be below it.
I guess it's not the goal here because obviously as you would expect you want to be balanced thoughtful and transparent with your shareholders.
You don't want to under-promise and over deliver because then everybody will think well the whole world's falling apart nor do you want to over promise and under deliver.
So we try to do it and what we think the system can delivery and we think 88 to 90.
We did not set it up to be too optimistic or set out to be too conserved.
It's right down the middle.
I hear you.
My question is I understand all your profit moves and am encouraged by the fourth quarter underlined showing some improvement which suggest that you are on track.
I guess I understand what you are doing in Allstate brand and Encompass on insurance trying to slow the growth dramatically certainly fits within your profit objective and it seems like its own way to go to achieve your short-term plan.
But I guess my question is are you where you want to be in scale in that business in long-term and what is your overall sort of long-term game play in insurance how big you have to be in that business to be a long term player? Let me make an overall long-term comment and then Don can give you some specific.
So insurance is twice the size from when we bought it three years ago.
So and we think it is of scale at a billion six because if you look at normal direct marketing company should be 10% of your premium you would spend on advertising and at a $160 million that's enough media weight to make sure people hear you.
If you're half that size you don't you just don't have enough throw weight in the marketing world.
So I think it's up scaled today.
That said we have good growth plans and I dont want you to think that this is the backing off of insurance growth.
Don can talk about the things we're doing to get into home owners and motorcycles and Canada and new market.
So there is plenty of growth up there.
We just were managing this year to some objectives that Don had set with the teams.
Don maybe you want to comment about it? Yes Bob.
First remember when we acquired insurance we did it for the strategic reason of going into the lower right hand corner with the self serve rent sensitive customer and really focusing the customer value proposition against the GEICO and progressive direct model.
And when we acquired it what we said we were going to do is was run it for economics as opposed to GAAP accounting.
So as you know in the direct model your expense all your marketing expense is up front.
And as a result the first year or the first quarter looks particularly bad when you are growing but then in later years you tend to make money as the business retains and you don't have to spend in the marketing again.
As Tom said the business is now twice as large as it was when we acquired it a little over four years ago.
It does have meaningful impact on where Allstate reports.
And with twice as much growth we were having some pressure on the loss ratio.
And so what we decided to do this year was slow the growth down really focus on getting more efficiency out of our model that meant both on the marketing side and on the operation side.
And I would tell you I am absolutely delighted with how they responded and how the business is doing.
I mean you talk about slowing it down dramatically.
It's still growing 4% to 5% in the fourth quarter and more than that for the year not as high as it had been but given the reduction in marketing still a good growth rate.
And the underlying combined ratio is down over eight points from last year in the quarter.
So we feel really good about where they are.
Having said that I would echo what Tom said the business is at scale.
It could run at this size with meaningful growth rates I think and certainly do it in economic way.
But we do want to grow the business in the future as aggressively as we can.
We just want to do it with a balanced profitability and growth.
We felt that was getting a little out of filter a year or 18 months ago.
We're getting it back in line now.
We feel good about what they're doing.
And the one other thing I would amplify is I think Tom mentioned in his comments we had four points of investment in 2015 that shows up in the combined ratio but you don't get the benefit of those investments in the current year.
Things like expanding home owners which is now in 25 states renters which is in 20 states motorcycles in all auto continues to expand to 43 states and one Ontario in Canada as well.
And so we are investing heavily in building our capabilities for the future building out features and expanding our footprint.
So we have -- I think the answer to your questions we have very aggressive growth plans for the future.
We are investing heavily in that but we want to make sure that we balance that with the economics and the reported results on a current basis.
Thanks for the thoughtful answers.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kaypaghian from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Good morning thank you.
First question on capital management.
And it looks -- [Audio Gap].
So if we look back over the last couple of years we set up our share buyback program really in a basis of as you put a capital that we have available.
We sold Lincoln Benefit Life which we'd both on capital and also the proceeds from the sale.
So we move that up to the parent company $1.2 billion in 2013 and 2014.
So in 2015 we used a fair amount of backup increased that buyback program but what may normally had been to a $3 billion level we're talking about.
In addition as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we've done a fair amount of work at kind of bringing our risk profile down in the corporation which once again has freed up some capital.
We do need to grow the business at the moment as we said I like that we are going to pool in more money into our investment portfolio to back that into the equity type investment.
We will need some to put some money aside it should grow the business and will also we have to pay our dividend obviously and what we free up essentially from net income we pay out on a year lag generally in and our share buyback.
Okay.
So we're looking more probably like payout ratio run 100% levels? Well we don't do it that way then of course where the banks do it but we do it with [indiscernible] which is so we look at how much capital we need then we say how much do we earn how much do we have and so we don't do it as a percentage of earnings.
Okay.
It's great.
And second question for Tom it looks the change on Slide 4 of your operating priority seems to be down 16.
Two thing one is the number one is better serve a customer through innovation in fact in efficiency.
Could you give some example of that and then the [indiscernible] item basically the long term gross platform now you mentioned about acquiring.
I just wonder what platform Allstate current lack that you would like to grow into and what's the [indiscernible] of your acquisition? Okay.
So let me answer the last one in there let Matt answer the first one.
So first in terms of priorities they are all important.
So they are not like we don't fight over which order they are in.
And so Matt will talk about the customer which is obviously very important to us but as important as all the other ones.
We did add was good catching [indiscernible].
We added the acquired to the bill long-term growth platforms.
Long-term growth platforms are [Audio Gap] to acquire something to help accelerate those efforts where we would do that.
Secondly we believe that there is additional propensity in particularly the Allstate agency channel but also some in insurance to pick up adjacent products and services which are consistent with protecting and preparing people particularly as Matt makes progress on the trusted adviser model in the Allstate agency channel.
We think there are other things we could sell in.
We could either decide we want to get into the business do filings [indiscernible] and that kind of stuff it's unique.
Or if somebody has a platform that we can buy and we can bolt it onto ours we would do that.
So that's the concept behind acquisitions.
We didnt put it in there because we have some specific target and I think will not talk about.
Matt you want to go through the customer piece? Sure Kay.
So you correctly pointed out that its customer base.
So it's all that customer centricity and using innovation effectiveness and efficiency not just to manage financials and manage margins but to better serve our customers.
And there is three primary tracks of work going on under that category.
The first is Tom just mentioned just trusted adviser and trusted adviser is all the work we have underway to help our agency owners and their staff and our exclusive financial specialists better serve our customers through personalized customized tailored solutions geographically based that are advised based not product push that are solutions as opposed to transactions and based on long-term value relationships.
And so we have a lot of work underway there.
And that goes to both the effectiveness of our agency system as a distribution model and the efficiency with which we put through product.
The second major line of work that we have underway is we refer to it as our continuous improvement others refer to it as lean engineering.
And we have installed continuous improvement in a good portion of the company already.
It's a set of management principles and practices that empower frontline employees get them involved in root cause problem solving create flow of information creating environment where they are engaged in their work and we have seen dramatic increases in productivity and efficiency of those operations that we've installed continuous improvement.
We've also seen customer satisfaction and employee engagement in those areas.
The third and this is on really the innovation side the track of work we have underway we refer to it as integrated digital enterprise but you've also heard me refer to it as a set of projects that take data predictive analytics and emerging technologies and combine those capabilities to better serve customers.
And that includes a range of things that both use internal sources of data as well as external sources of data to provide more predictive guidance to our agency owners in serving their customers to help them better serve those customers tell them what the next logical product for them might be.
And to use those emerging technologies to deliver that in a way that's more accepted by the customer more intuitive to the customer and is more respectful of the customers time and energy.
And so you will continue to see a lot of focus there.
As Tom referred to in his opening remarks as he explained why the expense ratio may float up a little bit we will continue to invest in all these core initiatives because they are all about long-term value creation.
If we're able to better serve our customers through innovation effectiveness and efficiency we will create a more valuable organization and we are all about that.
And so I thank you for asking the question.
Thank you very much.
Hey Jonathan we'll take one more quick one.
Certainly our final question comes from the line of Alison Jacobowitz from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
It's actually Jay Cowan as you could probably tell by the voice.
Two questions.
One is you're obviously taking action as you've talked at length about to improve the auto profitability and you suggested that certainly the effect will depend partly on what your competitors do.
Question is what are your competitors doing what are you seeing out there.
And then secondly relative to miles driven arguably one of the reasons is lower fuel prices would you suspect that oil going from 100 down to 40 has a bigger effect than oil going from 40 to 30 in other words the effect one might suggest would be declining over time.
Jay its Matt.
Those are two really good questions.
First of all what we are seeing part of our competitors some of our competitors is a significant rate action in the filings that we're reviewing.
As we make our filings we see competitor rate filings as well.
Some of them are quite significant some of them are more moderate most of it depends upon if you look back three or four years the level of rates they started this period.
And so those who had a greater GAAP to cover in order to deal with the frequency and severity pressure are taking greater rates.
So we expect that to generate some increased turmoil in the environment and it will certainly generate shopping behavior in the industry and shopping behavior can be a positive or negative depending upon how you approach it where you positioned and its all part of competition.
So we believe we are well positioned.
We believe we are prepared for it.
We believe we are monitoring their actions but we are mostly focused on what we need to do to earn appropriate returns and serve our customers.
And so I would say our primary focus is always on managing our own business with an eye towards what the competitors are doing as opposed to trying to react the competitors all the time which I find can just drive you crazy.
On your second question it's a great point.
There is a point of diminishing impact with gas prices on miles driven.
We've always said that we thought the unemployment rate and economic activity had even a greater impact than the gas prices because economic activity impacts employment driving and gas prices typically impact only discretionary driving activities because if you have to go to work you have to go to work and you're going to pay $3 a gallon or you're going to pay $1.90 a gallon.
If you are thinking about a vacation this summer and you're deciding whether to stay at home or drive down to Florida if gases are a $1.60 it's probably going to influence you differently than if gas was at $3.50 a gallon.
Now there is a point at which though it's just plain cheap and it's no longer a question and I think we're probably at that point.
So I think you are correct in that from what we look at we think the biggest influence of the drop in gas prices has already occurred and it's unlikely that that will drive much further increase in miles driven.
But that being said we also don't know what economic activity is going to look like and what all the other influences on frequency will look like.
So thank you all.
I will leave you with a couple of thoughts.
Allstate has been extremely strong operating platform.
First that enables us to react quickly to whatever peers in the world.
Secondly we proactively manage our risk and return on a consolidated basis whether it's catastrophes auto margins investment returns or our capital structure; we look at it in total.
And thirdly we are focused on long-term value.
We pay attention to current earnings because it is set along the way but we will not give up long-term value equation [secured to earnings] [ph] because we believe that's what shareholders want which is creating long-term economic cash value.
Thank you very much.
We will talk to you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation at today's conference.
This does conclude the program you may now disconnect.
Good day.